Report No. 595-IND                                                                  FILE  COPY
Appraisal of
Irrigation Project VI
Indonesia
March 6, 1975
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00        =    Rupiahs (Rp) 415
Rp 100         -    US$0.241
Rp 1 million   -    US$2,409.64
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM'
1 millimeter (mm)             -    0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                   =    39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)              =    0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)      -    0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                =    2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (i3)            =    35.31 cubic feet
1 liter (1)                   -    0.264 gallons (USA)
1 liter/second (1/sec)        =    0.035 cubic feet per second
1 kilogram (kg)               =    2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)            -    2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
BIMAS     -    A farm input package and credit program
BRI       -    People's Bank of Indonesia (Bank Rakyat Indonesia)
CRIA      -    The Central Research Institute for Agriculture
DGWRD     -    Directorate General of Water Resources Development
GOI       -    The Government of Indonesia
HYV       -    High yielding variety
INMAS     -    A program to encourage use of agricultural inputs outside BIMAS
IPEDA     -    Land tax based on potential productivity
INPRES    -    A rural works program
MOA       -    The Ministry of Agriculture
0 & M     -    Operation and Maintenance
PROSIDA   -    The organization within DGWRD responsible for World Bank
Group Irrigation Rehabilitation Projects
SAE       -    Agro-Economic Survey Institute.
CONVERSION FACTORS FOR RICE
1 ton "dry stalk paddy"       -    800 kg paddy ("paddy gabah")
=    500 kg milled rice
1 ton paddy (gabah)           -    630 kg milled rice
INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ...............................    i - ii
I.     INTRODUCTION  ...................................
II.  BACKGROUND .............................................                                  1
The Economy  .......             ...............................               1
Agriculture  ......................................                            2
Project  Formulation  .....                .........................           2
III.      THE PROJECT  AREA  ......................................                             4
General .........................                                              4
Climate .........................                                              4
Soils and Topography ...................                                       4
Agricultural Production .................5 
Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure  ........... .                           6
Agricultural Support Programs ..............                                   6
Storage,  Processing  and Marketing  ...............                   .       7
Transportation ......................                                          7
IV.     THE PROJECT  ...........................................                               7
Project Works ......................                                           8
Consulting  Services  .....               .........................           10
Feasibility Studies  .............              ..      ...............       10
Water  Supply,  Demand  and Quality  ...... ..                  .........     10
Implementation Schedule                            .           .              11
Cost  Estimates  ...           ................................               11
Financing         ....................         ...................            12
Procurement          ................... ...................                  12
Disbursements           ..................        ..................          13
Accounts  and Audits  ...............                  ...............        13
Environmental  Effects  ............             ..     ..............        14



-2-
Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..........................           14
Organization ............  i .....    ..................   14
Technical Assistance .....        .......................  15
Training .................... ....................         16
Agricultural Supporting Services .............      **.    16
Cimanuk Soil Conservation Program ..............    .      17
Groundwater Investigation .......... .. ...........        17
Monitoring Benefits .....        ....................... .  17
Operation and Maintenance .......... .. ...........        17
Recovery of Costs . ............ ..... . . . .  ...... .   18
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM
INCOME          .............................................  19
Production ................... ...................         19
Market Prospects and Prices .....................          19
Farm Income ...................       ..................   20
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...........................           22
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ......................................           22
ANNEXES
1.   Agricultural Production
2.   Agricultural Supporting Services
3.   The Project Works
4.   Consulting Services and Technical Assistance
5.   Water Supply and Requirements
6.   Cost Estimates
7.   Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
8.   Training
9.   Crop and Farm Budgets
10.   Economic Analysis
CHARTS
Opportunity Cost Curve for Farm Labor            Chart 9303
'Water Resources Organization  -                 Chart 8963
PROSIDA Management Organization -                Chart 8965
PROSIDA Sub-project Organization -               Chart 8964
Design and Construction Schedule - Cirebon - Chart 8960
Design and Construction Schedule - Rentang - Chart 8961



-3-
Design and Construction Schedule - Sampean
Baru - Chart 8962
Cropping Pattern and Water Requirements -
Sampean
Baru   - Chart 8966
MAPS
No.
Location Map                              3627R1
Irrigation Project VI                     10867
Sampean Baru Irrigation System            11197






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The proposed project would continue the Bank's program of assistance
to irrigated agriculture in Indonesia. The project's main objectives are to
increase paddy production by rehabilitating existing irrigation systems, to
bring a rainfed area under irrigation, to increase rural incomes and improve
institutions by providing technical assistance and training. The project is
on the priority list of the Government's Second Five Year Plan and at least
80% of the project beneficiaries are in the lowest 40% income group.
ii.       There are three main components in the proposed project:  the re-
habilitation of the existing irrigation systems in Cirebon area (89,000 ha);
a new barrage and improved drainage facilities (33,000 ha) in Rentang Irri-
gation System (92,000 ha), which was rehabilitated under Credit 127-IND; and
completion of the irrigation system in Sampean Baru project area (9,800 ha).
Rentang and Cirebon are located in West Java, while Sampean Baru is in East
Java. In addition to these works the project would include feasibility
studies for future irrigation projects in Madiun and Cirebon areas; a soil
erosion control program; training and technical assistance in agriculture
and engineering; agro-economic monitoring studies for irrigation areas; and
financing of final costs of groundwater investigations, started under Credit
289-IND. Camps, offices, an Agricultural Development Center, Rural Extension
Centers and operators houses are included, together with vehicles, equipment,
communications and consulting services.
iii.      The estimated cost of the proposed project is US$165 million.  The
Bank proposes to finance the foreign exchange component, which is estimated
to be US$65 million or about 40% of total cost.
iv.       Rentang Barrage (US$13 million) and equipment and vehicles (US$3.5
million) would be awarded after international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank guidelines. Contracts for the other civil works (US$54 mil-
lion) which are widely scattered in space and time would be awarded after
local advertising. Consulting services, mapping, technical assistance and
training would cost US$9.5 million. Contingencies amount to US$69 million,
of which US$51 million are for anticipated price increases. Construction
is scheduled to take six years for all elements of the project. PROSIDA, a
special unit within the Directorate General of Water Resources Development,
which is successfully executing three IDA irrigation projects, would be
responsible for project implementation and the Ministry of Agriculture
would he responsible for administrating the agricultural support program
un(der a special directorate.



- ii -
v.        The economic rate of return was evaluated for each component and
is 38% for the Cirebon irrigation rehabilitation; 44% for the Rentang Barrage
and drainage facilities; and 18% for the Sampean Baru irrigation system.
Some 365,000 farm families, made up of about 60% owners and 40% tenants would
benefit from the project. Following completion of the project, farm incomes
for average farmers on 0.5 ha would increase from US$65-125 to US$150-290,
depending on whether they are owners or sharecroppers. For Sampean Baru the
farm income of average owner farmers on 0.5 ha would increase from US$30 to
US$300.
vi.       The five on-going irrigation projects, being financed under IDA
Credits are progressing relatively well, but have been affected by inflation,
causing delays in civil works and hence in project completion. A recent
detailed review, however, indicated that satisfactory rates of return would
be obtained taking into account delays, higher costs and benefits.
vii.      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$65 million
for a term of 30 years, including six year grace. The borrower would be
the Republic of Indonesia.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested a Bank Loan to
assist in financing the rehabilitation of the Cirebon Irrigation Systems;
construction of additional facilities for the Rentang Irrigation System,
which would complement works in the area financed under Credit 127-IND; and
construction of the Sampean Baru Irrigation System in East Java. This
would be the sixth Bank Group operation for promoting irrigation development
in Indonesia; four of the preceding projects being for rehabilitation of
existing systems and the fifth for the Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension Project
(Map 3627R1).
1.02      Works on the First Irrigation Rehabilitation Project are complete,
except for drainage improvements, and disbursements are almost complete. The
Second Project - rehabilitation of Jatiluhur Irrigation system - has been
delayed by about two years, initially, due to problems with tender documents
and subsequently due to failure to replace the Authority's President-Director.
These problems have now been solved, all contracts have been let and a
President-Director has been appointed. Disbursements have been on schedule
for the last year. The Third Project is well advanced and will soon be
complete, except for drainage works in some areas. Disbursements, initially
slow, have been on schedule for two years. In the Fourth Project, after a
slow start, large numbers of civil works contracts are being let and progress
is picking up. Disbursements are on schedule. The Fifth Project is about to
commence.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, which
visited Indonesia in June 1974, comprising Messrs. H.J. Tennent, C. Koch-
Weser (Bank), R. Bloor, P. Judd and P.T. Reddy (Consultants). Messrs. R.
Harris and S. Okabe also contributed to this report. Feasibility studies
were prepared for the Cirebon systems by a joint consulting venture of
NEDECO/SMEC (Netherlands/Australia), for the Sampean Baru project by a
joint venture of Harza/AHT (USA/Germany), both financed under Credit 289-IND,
and for the Rentang System by PROSIDA.
II. BACKGROUND
The Economy
2.01      March 31, 1974, marked the end of Pelita I, the Indonesian First
Five-Year Plan. During the period 1968-1972, real annual economic growth
was close to 7% and during 1973 satisfactory growth was indicated. Domestic
savings and investments increased considerably, thus providing the basis for
continued future economic growth. This occured despite a drought in the
second half of 1972 which led to a setback in food production and a steep
increase in prices. At the beginning of 1974, inflation, which had previously
been under control, reached a rate of 40% per annum. Steep increases in both
import and export prices, a rapid physical expansion of production in the oil
and forestry sectors, a quick growth in direct foreign investment and a large



-2-
inflow of short-term credit, all contributed to this. Most noteworthy for
future development prospects has been the rapid increase in oil production
and prices. With a daily production of 1.5 million barrels, Indonesia is
already the eighth largest oil exporting nation in the world. The price of
Indonesian oil, which was US$3.73 per barrel in September 1973, reached
US$11.70 per barrel by April 1974. Gross production is expected to exceed
US$5 billion in 1974/75, of which US$3 billion will be the net contribution
to the balance of payments and the Government's revenues. The important
problems facing the economy during the Second Five-Year Plan (Pelita II),
1974/75 to 1978/79, are the equitable distribution of the benefits from oil
and other developments among the people, the expansion of food production,
and the control of inflation.
Agriculture
2.02      Agriculture, which grew at nearly 4% per annum over the period
1968-72, accounts for nearly 50% of GNP, about 60% of employment and almost
all non-petroleum exports. The major food crops are rice, maize, cassava,
sweet potatoes, soyabeans and groundnuts. They provide 85% of the total
calorie and 80% of the total protein intake of the population. Rice, the
staple food, amounts to nearly one-third of total agricultural production
by value and 12% of GNP.  The Government's foremost objective in food crop
production is to reach self-sufficiency in rice as soon as possible.  Under
Pelita I, priority was given to increasing rice production, which had stag-
nated for more than a decade.  Measures taken included rehabilitation of
existing irrigation systems, price support programs, the provision of improved
seed, fertilizer, pesticides and credit, and substantial allocations of funds
to extension and research. These policies contributed to the increase in
rice production from 10.8 million tons of milled rice in 1968 to 13.4 million
tons in 1973, a total increase of 2.6 million tons, or an average annual in-
crease of about 5%. Taking into account population growth, however, the
increase in domestic rice supply was only about 2.4% per capita over the
First Plan period and the country had to resort to rice imports of between
0.5 and 1.5 million tons per year. The 1972 drought had a severe impact on
rice output, highlighting the vulnerability of the Indonesian rice economy
to weather fluctuations.
Project Formulation
2.03      Due to long years of neglect, most of the 1.5 million ha of
government maintained irrigation systems in Java were in need of rehabili-
tation by the mid 1960's. Rehabilitation works on about 1.0 million ha were
started during Pelita I, with about 800,000 ha being carried out with IDA
assistance. The work is scheduled to be completed in this next five years.
With limited opportunities for increased rice production under rainfed
conditions in Java, Indonesia must continue its intensive program of irrigation
development if it is to increase its rice output in step with population
growth. Outstanding works include two large systems covering 220,000 ha
and the balance is made up of small systems. GOI has asked for Bank assistance



-3
for the large systems - Cirebon and Madiun.  In addition, GOI plans to con-
struct 550,000 ha of new small systems and about 200,000 ha of large systems,
mainly in the Outer Islands during Pelita II (The Second Five Year Plan).
The proposed project is thus in line with the Government's overall development
plan and follows the recommendations of the Bank's Irrigation Program Survey
mission of March 1974.   It is consistent with GOI's efforts to help the rural
poor. Formulation of the project follows closely the approach developed on
the previous IDA financed irrigation projects in Indonesia with one major
difference, namely, the method of constructing tertiary and quaternary canals
and drains. On the first four rehabilitation projects, GOI constructed the
first 5Om of tertiary canals and it was left to the farmers to complete the
works. Actual construction of the works by the farmers to date has been very
slow, largely because the farmers do not have the maps or technical knowledge
to set out the canal systems to correct lines and levels, nor design ex-
perience to locate and build tertiary control structures. At the same time,
benefits from these works are substantial and, for this reason, construction
of the tertiary and quaternary canals was undertaken as a cooperative effort
between the executing agency and the farmers on the most recent IDA irrigation
project in Indonesia (Credit 514-IND). A similar approach (para 4.04) would
be adopted under this project for the Cirebon, Rentang and Sampean Baru systems.
2.04      Following completion of project works, dry season irrigation in
the Cirebon and Rentang areas would still be limited by the unregulated flow
of the rivers and streams in these areas. There is, however, a proposal to
construct the Jatigede Dam, a multi-purpose earth and rock-fill dam on the
Cimanuk river which, after completion of its first phase, would provide
assured dry season irrigation of some 85,000 ha in the Rentang area and
30,000 ha in the Cirebon area. In the second and third phases hydropower
of 400 mw and 800 mw, respectively, would be provided by means of diversions
from the Cilutung and Cipeles rivers into the Jatigede reservoir (Map 10867).
Feasibility studies for Jatigede Dam were completed in early 1974 by a joint
venture of NEDECO (Holland) and SMEC (Australia), with funds provided under
Credit 289-IND. A preliminary review of these studies conducted during
appraisal of this project indicated that the economic rate of return on
Jatigede Dam would be in the range of 20%, even if the dam is constructed
as a single purpose irrigation project. Based on these findings the Aus-
tralian Government is finalizing arrangements for a technical assistance
grant of about US$7.5 million to cover the foreign exchange costs of pre-
liminary works at the dam site and consulting services for detailed designs
and the preparation of tender documents. GOI intends to request Bank as-
sistance for construction of Jatigede Dam in FY77, and has agreed to a review
by the Bank of all aspects of the consultant's work. GOI will prepare
a plan for settlement of the people, who will be displaced by the Jatigede
reservoir before Bank appraisal of this project.



-4-
III.  THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      Cirebon and Rentang projects are two adjacent irrigation systems
located on the north coast of Java, about 220 km east of Jakarta (Map 10867).
The Cirebon project comprises 56 irrigation systems varying in size between
100 and 7,900 ha and covering a total area of 89,000 ha. All systems are
run-of-the-river gravity systems served by some 117 headworks and weirs which
raise river levels and direct water into canal systems. Most structures, all
gates and hoists, all drains, canals and their banks have deteriorated badly
over the last 20 years. The Rentang system is to the east of the Jatiluhur
project and the area is bisected by the Cimanuk river. About 92,000 ha in
the Rentang area are irrigated from a 60-year old barrage on the Cimanuk river,
and by three primary canals. Rehabilitation of canals and structures in the
area began in 1969 under Credit 127-IND and, with the exception of some
additional drainage which is still required on about 30,000 ha along the coast,
is now completed. There was no provision, however, under Credit 127-IND for
construction of a new barrage which is urgently needed as the existing
structure requires frequent and expensive repair work. Feasibility studies
carried out by PROSIDA and their consultants have shown that it would be more
economical to construct a new barrage than to continue maintaining the existing
structure.
3.02      Construction of the Sampean Baru irrigation system (9,800 ha), in
East Java, (Map 11197) was commenced in 1942 but was abandoned because of
the war. Completed works include a weir, intake structure and 9 km of primary
canal. These works have, however, seriously deteriorated over the years and
will require rehabilitation before they can be integrated into the new
irrigation system. Sampean Baru is surrounded by the existing irrigation
systems, collectively known as Pekalen-Sampean, which are being rehabilitated
under Credit 289-IND.
Climate
3.03      The climate is tropical and monsoonal.  Temperatures vary only a
few degrees around the annual average of 26'C. Day lengths are almost con-
stant throughout the year. The rainy season, during which 70% of rainfall
occurs, is from November to May (northwest monsoon), and the dry season
from about June to October (southeast monsoon). Annual precipitation in
the Cirebon/Rentang project area is 1,500 to 2,000 mm and in Sampean Baru
project area from 1,200 to 1,500 mm. Annex 1 gives climatic data.
Soils and Topography
3.04      Soils in all the project areas are alluvial and of volcanic origin
and generally suitable for paddy cultivation. They respond positively to
nitrogenous and phosphatic fertilizers. The topography of the Cirebon area



- 5 -
is largely flat, except around Gunong Ciremai (an active volcano), where it
becomes undulating and broken by numerous rivers and streams. The Rentang
area is flat and contains the Cimanuk river delta where there are low
coastal areas which have drainage problems. In each area lowland soils are
also suitable for sugar crops and in the upland areas with lighter soils a
variety of secondary crops are grown. Sampean Baru has a flat terrain sloping
towards the coast, but it is broken by many streams flowing in fairly deep
ravines providing natural drainage. Soils are generally suitable for paddy
cultivation and, in the upland areas, cotton and other secondary crops are
grown. In the east, the land is more undulating and there are areas requiring
land levelling for paddy cultivation.
Agricultural Production
3.05      Paddy, which is the main crop, is grown throughout the Cirebon
project area in the wet season. With run-of-the-river irrigation it is
also grown wherever there is sufficient water during the dry season. Both
local varieties and high-yielding varieties (HYV) are planted but yields
are low, ranging between 1.5 and 2.8 ton/ha (gabah). 1/ The overall annual
cropping intensity is about 140%, with about 7,000 ha of sugarcane planted
as an estate crop on land rented from small farmers, yielding about 90 ton/ha.
In the dry season, 18,000 ha of secondary crops are planted on higher ground
with lighter soils; they consist mainly of soyabeans and corn and the combined
annual production is 14,000 tons. The annual production of paddy is 216,000
tons, of which 190,000 tons is the wet season crop. Annual sugarcane pro-
duction is 630,000 tons.
3.06      The Rentang irrigation system is one of four systems being
rehabilitated under Credit 127-IND and all works included under that Credit
have been completed in Rentang. Paddy is the main wet season crop. Yields
presently vary from 1.7 to 3.0 ton/ha, depending on quality of water supply,
drainage conditions and variety planted. These yield levels are highest where
rehabilitation has been completed and, after completion of rehabilitation,
are expected to reach 3.5 ton/ha in the best areas. In the dry season, soyabeans
and paddy are planted. The total annual production of paddy for this area is
281,000 tons, of which about 211,000 tons are produced in the wet season. The
secondary crops, including sugarcane, produce about 46,000 tons per year.
Large areas are planted during the dry season, but crops are frequently lost
due to failure of water supply, and cropping intensity based on harvested area
is only 130%.
3.07      In Sampean Baru, rainfed paddy and, to a lesser extent, corn and
cassava are the main wet season crops. In the dry season much of the area
is left fallow. Yields are low, and paddy averages only 1.5 ton/ha. The
total annual production of paddy in this area is 3,000 tons. Secondary
crop production totals 7,000 tons, which includes 400 tons of estate cotton.
1/   Rough grain paddy - the unit used throughout this report.



-6-
Cropping intensity is only 90%. Further details of present agricultural
production in the project areas are presented in Annex 1.
Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.08      Cirebon and Indramayu, with populations of about 180,000 and
40,000, respectively, are the major towns in the Cirebon/Rentang areas. The
rest of the population (about 3,000,000 in Cirebon and 1,200,000 in Rentang
districts) is mostly rural. The population served by the project is estimated
to be about 2.2 million. There are some 320,000 families, averaging nearly
seven members per family. According to the 1963 census data, more than 50%
of holdings in these areas range between 0.1 and 0.5 ha and less than 10% of
holdings had more than 1.5 ha. Between 30% and 40% of the rural population
are landless laborers, roughly 50% are owner-operators and between 10 and
20% are tenants. There is considerable variation in land tenure pattern
throughout the areas. The tenure system of owner-sharecroppers is usually
based on a 50-50 sharing of the crop, with harvesting and cash input expenses
being shared equally, the sharecropper providing all labor and the owner paying
the land tax.
3.09      Population in the Sampean Baru project area is about 280,000.  The
number of families is estimated at 45,000. A pilot survey of the area indicates
that approximately 50% of the farms, accounting for about 20% of the total
land, are under 1.0 ha. In contrast, about 18% of the farms are larger than
2 ha but account for 58% of the land. However, most of the larger holdings
consist of very poor upland fields. The average farm is 1.4 ha, consisting
of 0.4 ha in lowland that would be irrigated under the project, and 1.0 ha in
upland. About 20% of the upland is not cultivated. More than 90% of the
farms are owner-operated. Most rental agreements provide for sharing the crop
equally, with the land owner paying the land tax, but the tenant paying all
operating costs. The proportion of landless laborers in the area is high, but
no data on actual numbers are available. Underemployment is widespread, which
is reflected in extremely low wage levels for hired farm labor (about 50% of
the wage level in Cirebon/Rentang).
Agricultural Support Programs
3.10      The agricultural support program is currently arranged through the
BIMAS 1/ program which only covers about 40% of Cirebon and Rentang areas and
little of Sampean Baru. This program provides extension, improved seed,
fertilizer, pesticides and credit and is very effective where it operates.
Most inputs supplied under the program are subsidized by GOI. The Provincial
Government extension staff is small and trained personnel are insufficient
to meet the farmers' needs. Details of the existing agricultural services
and proposals for expansion under the project are presented in Annex 2.
1/   A farm input and credit program.



-7-
Storage, Processing and Marketing
3.11      There are usually paddy barns in each village which provide
temporary storage but losses are high due to rodents. Farmers retain
most of their paddy production for home consumption and, at present, only
about 20% of the crop is sold to middlemen or to the government marketing
control agency (BULOG). BULOG purchases rice at a floor price established
on the basis of the cost of fertilizer. Following the harvest of the 1974
wet season crop the floor price was Rp 40.8 (US$0.10) per kg of paddy. In
times of poor harvests some farmers can obtain prices above the floor price
by selling to the private sector. Many indebted farmers, however, are
forced to sell or repay paddy for production costs at lower than floor
prices, particulary in Sampean Baru. Surplus secondary crops are sold
to middlemen. Estate sugar and cotton are marketed by the State Sugar and
Cotton Industries.
3.12      Rice mills and hullers in the Cirebon and Rentang areas usually
have some storage capacity and almost all have sun-drying floors. There
are 33 large mills and about 400 hullers which have excess milling capacity.
In Sampean Baru, there are 18 rice hullers in the area which are operated
at 50 to 75% of their full capacity.
Transportation
3.13      Farm-to-market transportation is largely by hand-carrying, bi-
cycles or animal drawn carts. The rural road network is adequate but
needs rehabilitation. In the wet season, many of the roads are impassable,
and due to poor maintenance, remain so for many months. The INPRES 1/ pro-
gram includes upgrading of some of these roads, but is insufficient to cover
the whole network. Each project area is served by main highways and railways,
which provide them with good transportation links to Jakarta, in the case of
Cirebon/Rentang, and Surabaya, in the case of Sampean Baru.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The proposed project (Map 3627R1) would rehabilitate existing
irrigation and drainage networks serving 89,000 ha in the Cirebon area;
construct a new barrage on the Cimanuk river to improve water delivery to
some 92,000 ha in the Rentang scheme, where the irrigation network was
rehabilitated with IDA assistance under Credit 127-IND; provide drainage
facilities for some 30,000 ha of coastal land in Rentang, which were not
financed under Credit 127-IND (Map 10867); and construct a new irrigation
system to serve 9,800 ha, in Sampean Baru (Map 11197), which is surrounded
by the Pekalen-Sampean area, being rehabilitated under Credit 289-IND.
1/ Rural Works Program.



-8-
Project Works
4.02      The main components of the project, details of which are given
in Annex 3, are as follows:
Cirebon Systems
(a) rehabilitation of 117 existing headworks and weirs;
(b) reconstruction of 450 km of primary and secondary canals;
(c) construction of tertiary canal and drainage systems with
related quaternary canals and structures, throughout the area;
(d) improvement of about 200 km of existing drains and the
construction of 40 km of new ones with related flood protection
works;
(e)  20 pilot projects of about 100 ha each to demonstrate the
benefits of on-farm development;
(f) upgrading of 305 km of rural roads and construction of 55 km
of inspection roads and paths along the irrigation canals;
and
(g) construction of office buildings, stores, houses for project
management and operations staff, an agricultural development
center and six rural extension centers.
Rentang System
(a) construction of new reinforced concrete barrage and irrigation
intakes on the Cimanuk river;
(b) construction of tertiary canal systems with related quaternary
canals and structures throughout the project area;
(c) improvement of about 200 km of existing drains, and
construction of about 60 km of new ones to serve a low-
lying coastal area of about 30,000 ha;
(d) 20 pilot projects of about 100 ha each to demonstrate
the benefit of on-farm development; and
(e) construction of six rural extension centres.
Sampean Baru
(a) remodeling of the existing weir and intake structure;



- 9 -
(b)  construction of an earth fill closure dam on the Sampean
river;
(c)  construction of 35 km of new unlined primary canal and
structures, along with rehabilitation of the 9 km of
existing canal and construction of about 120 km of secondary
canals and related structures;
(d)  land leveling of about 2,000 ha;
(e)  construction of operator's houses;
(f)  construction of tertiary canal and drainage systems with
related quaternary canals and structures throughout the area;
(g)  construction of 100 km of rural roads and inspection roads
and paths; and
(h)  two 100 ha pilot projects to demonstrate on-farm development,
and one 100 ha pumping demonstration pilot scheme for high
value crops on uplands.
All above works would be carried out with assistance from consulting firms
and, where appropriate, with individual specialists.
4.03       Under the project feasibility studies would be undertaken for re-
habilitation of 130,000 ha in Madiun Irrigation Project as well as for dry
season irrigation on about 30,000 ha of Cirebon.  The project also provides
for: completion of ongoing groundwater investigations in the Madiun/Solo
area; design of North Sadang extension (6,500 ha); mapping; a soil conserva-
tion program in the Cimanuk river catchment area; and supply of vehicles,
equipment and communications for construction, operation and agricultural
services. In addition, a program of supporting agriculture services would
be introduced in the two large project areas; training and technical assis-
tance would be provided; and a program for monitoring project benefits in
all rehabilitated areas would be undertaken.
4.04      The tertiary canals and drains, related quaternary canals and
control structures would be designed by PROSID)A which, together with local
agencies, would guide and direct farmers in constructing these canals.  The
cost of engineering, materials, structures, the first 50m of each tertiary
and, wherever necessary, right-of-way acquisition would be borne by GOI.
Farmers in the project areas would be organizedI by the village headmen,
under PROSIDA's supervision, to construct these canals. GOI would provide
farmers with a token wage or other compensation. Completion of these minor
works would not only enable paddy yields to be increased by about 1 ton/ha,
but would allow dry season cropping to be increased and multiple cropping
to be developed.  Assurances were obtained that, wherever farmers failed
to construct the tertiary and quaternary canals within twelve months after
PROSIDA has completed all of the engineering work, including the construction
of the first 50m of the tertiary, the system  would be completed by GOI.



- 10 -
Consulting Services
4.05      Consultants with suitable agricultural as well as engineering
experience, would be employed to assist PROSIDA and MOA in the design and
construction supervision of the Cirebon systems and Rentang barrage and to
carry out feasibility studies for future irrigation projects (para 4.06).
Assurances were obtained that consultants acceptable to the Bank would be
engaged within three months of Loan signing on terms and conditions approved
by the Bank. Draft terms of references for the different consulting serv-
ices are presented in Annex 4. Consultants would also be employed for
Sampean Baru. The present consultants (NEDECO) would be retained to de-
sign the North Sadang extension.
Feasibility Studies
4.06      Madiun Irrigation Systems (130,000 ha).  These systems (Map 10867)
comprise the last large block of irrigation remaining for rehabilitation
(para 2.03). They are served by small rivers surrounding Madiun city. The
feasibility study would establish what rehabilitation works are required
along with their costs, and would examine the agricultural potential and
supporting services requirements in detail. It would also include an agro-
economic survey to establish basic data on the current rural levels of income
and employment. It would be a two phase study, first the feasibility, f.l-
lowed by the detailed design.  The consultants (ELC/Nippon Koei-Italy/Japan)
working on Madiun-Solo groundwater investigations have identified three pos-
sible storage dam sites, which would provide dry season irrigation for the
Madiun systems. These preliminary investigations would be followed through
to feasibility studies suitable for appraisal.
4.07      Cirebon Feeder Canal.  The consultants (NEDECO/SMEC) who prepared
feasibility studies for Cirebon rehabilitation and Jatigede Dam (para 2.04),
identified the approximate alignment of a feeder canal to provide dry season
irrigation for about 30,000 ha of Cirebon area. These early studies would
be carried through to feasibility level suitable for appraisal.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4.08      The Rentang area is supplied from the Cimanuk river.  Water supply
and demand were previously investigated under Credit 127-IND, and there is
sufficient water supply to meet the demand for 100% of the area under paddy
in tlhe wet season, but only about 30% in the dry season, in a normal year
(four otUt Of five). Water supply for Cirebon comes from many small springs,
strecanms and rivers.  Because of diffused water sources, it is difficult to
calculate the water supply available to thie project, but past records indi-
cate that there woudi be sufficient water in normal years to irrigate 100%
of the  rea for paddy in thie wet season and about 40% of thle area in the dry
season, made up of 10, pa(ddy, 8% sugar and 22% mixed upland crops.  The con-
sultants for Cirebon rehabilitation would carry out detailed investigations



- 1 1 - 
of river flows and water demand for each crop. They would also examine ef-
ficiency of water distribution, particularly in dry season. The on-farm
development pilot projects would pay special attention to water demand for
individual crops in the dry season, and to demonstration of better water
management at farm level. The deterioration of the canals and structures
has reduced field efficiency, but withi rehabilitation and efficient opera-
tion, it would be raised from 30% to about 55%. This would allow cropping
intensity to be raised to 145%. Sampean Baru would be supplied from a weir
on the Sampean river. Allowing for delivery of water to existing systems
both upstream and downstream of the project, there would be sufficient water
for the planned cropping pattern. Details of water demand and supply are
given in Chart 8966 and Annex 5. Tests of water samples in the project
areas indicate that there are no harmful chemicals in the waters, nor is
there a problem of salinity increasing in the future.
Implementation Schedule
4.09      Implementation schedules for Cirebon, Rentang and Sampean Baru
are given in Charts 8960, 8961 and 8962. The design and construction period
for Cirebon would be six years and for Rentang and Sampean Baru, five years.
In order to expedite works, GOI has completed mapping of the areas before
design commences and this would have a favorable effect on the schedule.
Cost Estimates
4.10      Total project costs are estimated at US$165 million, of which
US$65 million or 40% is the foreign exchange component. The costs of the
Cirebon- and Sampean Baru rehabilitation works are based on actual costs of
similar works carried out in adjacent areas by PROSIDA. These estimates
were prepared by PROSIDA's consultants in mid-1973 and were increased to
end-1974 price levels during appraisal. Rentang barrage and drainage works
were based on estimates prepared from preliminary designs made by PROSIDA
and their consultants, as well as the actual cost of similar works recently
completed in Rentang. These estimates were also updated to end-1974 price
levels. Depending on the status of investigations, physical contingencies
of between 10% and 25% have been included in the estimates. Twenty-five
percent has been allowed because experience with the previous rehabilitation
projects in Indonesia has shown that the extent of rehabilitation required
on irrigation structures could only be finalized after the structure has
been dewatered. Expected price increases are based on international commo-
dity index projections and expected doniestic price increases. For civil
works the anntual percentage is 15% for 1975 and 12% annually thereafter.
For equipment the percentage for 1975 is 11% and 7.5% thereafter.  The per-
centages for foreign and local inflation were assumed to be the same. Ex-
pected price increases thus amount to about 30%v of total project costs.
4.11      A breakdown of project costs is presente(d in Annex 6 and summa-
rized below:



- 12 -
% of
Foreign % of
Item         Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  Total
-----Rp Billion------  -----…US$ Million-----
Cirebon Reha-
bilitation   10.2         6.2   16.4    24.8   14.9        39.7       35       24
Rentang works   8.3         5.2   13.5    20.0   12.5         32.5      40       20
Sampean Baru
system         4.1        2.8    6.9    10.0    6.5        16.5      40        10
Total Capital
Cost        22.6      14.2   36.8    54.8   33.9         88.7      38       54
Miscellaneous
services,
training &
technical
assistance    0.8         2.0    2.8       1.9    4.9       6.8      70         4
Base Cost
Estimate      23.4      16.2   39.6    56.7   38.8         95.5      40       58
Physical con-
tingencies    4.8        2.9    7.7    11.6    6.9         18.5      40       11
Expected price
increases     13.2       8.0   21.2    31.7   19.3         51.0      40       31
Total Project
Cost          41.4      27.1   68.5   100.0   65.0        165.0      40      100
Financing
4.12       The proposed Bank loan of US$65 million would finance the foreign
exclhange requirements, which amount to about 40% of project costs.  GOI's
contribution of US$100 million (Rps 41 billion) would finance local cur-
rency requirenments and would be met by budgetary appropriations to PROSIDA
and MOA.
Procuremlient
4.13       Veehicles and equipment for construction, operation and agricul-
tural services costing about IJSS3.5 million (Annex 3) would be procured
after international competitive bidding in accordance witih Bank Group
Guidelines. A 15% preference margin, or the prevailing customs duty, if
lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in bid comparison.  Small
off-the-shelf items (excluding spare parts) costing less than US$10,000
each and limited to a total of US$100,000, which are not suitable for
international tendering, would be purchased through normal Government pro-
curement procedures.  There are sufficient supplies of such goods to ensure
adequate competition.



- 13 -
4.14      The Rentang barrage (US$13 million) would be let as a single con-
tract after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guide-
lines. Qualified local contractors would be given a preference of 7-1/2%
in evaluation of bids. The other civil works on the project are estimated
to cost US$54 million. They consist of rehabilitation works (US$51 million)
and construction of agricultural and operator's buildings (US$3 million).
Since they are made up of a large number of individually small works scat-
tered over a wide area and time span, they would not be of interest to in-
ternational contractors, and, as in Credits 127-, 220- and 289-IND, would
be awarded to prequalified contractors (annually prequalified after adver-
tisement and approval by the Bank) after local competitive bidding. The
value of these contracts would be not less than US$75,000, and for those
contracts above US$250,000 documents would be submitted to the Bank for
review before tendering and letting contracts. The largest contracts
would not exceed about US$500,000 based on experience of previous reha-
bilitation projects. These works would be carried out mostly by labor
intensive methods, but for large drains and rivers, where equipment is
needed, PROSIDA would rent its equipment to the contractors or use force
account. At present Indonesian regulations do not provide price inflation
clauses in local civil works contracts. In view of present worldwide in-
flationary trends, such clauses are essential to protect the contractors,
and assurances that they would be included in all civil works contracts
were obtained from GOI.
Disbursements
4.15      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the cif
cost of directly imported vehicles and equipment, 95% of the ex-factory price
of equipment manufactured locally and at 65% for imported equipment locally
procured. For foreign consultants, technical assistance and training, dis-
bursements would cover the actual foreign exchange costs. Disbursements for
civil works would be at the rate of 50% of total cost, based on the estimated
foreign exchange component (Annex 6, Table 7) and most would be disbursed
througlh certified monthly contractors' progress payments.  Disbursements
would also include force account works whicih would amount to about US$3 mil-
lion. Such disbursements would be made against a certificate of expenditure,
the documentation for which would not be submittei to the Bank for review,
but would be retained by the Borrower and made available for inspection by
the Bank's supervision missions. MOA's disbursement procedures would be
similar. For the monitoring survey (excluding technical assistance, which would
be 100%) disbursements would be at the rate of 50% of total cost. Disburse-
ments for mapping would be at the rate of 80% of total expenditures. The
estimated schedule of expenditures on the project and a disbursement sched-
ule are presented in Annex 7.  It is expected that disbursements would be
completed by June 30, 1982.
Accounts and Audit
4.16      PItOSIDA and government agencies' accounts are audited annually
by the &overnment's audiitors. These auditors lhave been accepted for the



- 14 -
other three IDA assisted projects executed by PROSIDA and satisfactory audit
reports have been received. Assurances were obtained that PROSIDA and MDA
would maintain separate project accounts and that satisfactorily audited fi-
nancial statements, together with the auditor's comments, would be submitted
to the Bank within four months of the close of each financial year.
Environmental Effects
4.17      The irrigation systems of Cirebon and Rentang have been in
operation for many years and no adverse effects are expected from the
project works. Improved drainage control gates at the sea should, in
fact, improve the drinking water for the people close to the sea who are
currently bicycling about 5 km to find fresh water in the dry season,
because of ingress of salt water.
4.18      There is no schistosomiasis in Java, but cholera is prevalent
in certain times of the year. Fertilizers and pesticides are already in
use in and around the project areas and people are well aware of their
toxic effects, and no adverse effects are envisaged.
4.19      In Sampean Baru, the advent of irrigation water would provide much
needed domestic water supply and would be beneficial.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Organization
5.01      Responsibility for project implementation would rest with PROSIDA,
a unit in the Directorate General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD) in
the Ministry of Public Works and Electric Power which is presently in charge
of the First (Credit 127-IND), Third (Credit 220-IND), and Fourth (Credit
289-IND) Irrigation Rehabilitation Projects. A new field office would be
set up by PROSIDA in Cirebon area to handle Cirebon rehabilitation works.
Construction work in Rentang would be handledl by the existing field office
in Jatibarang. Implementation of Sampean Baru would be carried out from
the existing Pekalen Sampean Rehabilitation project headquarters (Credit
289-IND.)  Chart 3963 shows the general organization of the DGWRD, Chart
8965 shows PROSIDA management structure and Chart 8964 the particular or-
ganization for each area or sub-project.
5.02      PROSIDA is one of the most efficient units of the DGWRD, and, with
the First Rehabilitation Project nearing completion, as well as the project
providing consultants, an advisor to PROSIDA's General Manager (para 5.09)
and other neededi technical assistance and training (para 5.03-5.09), it should
have no difficulty in carrying out these additional responsibilities.  1OA
would administer tlhe agricultural support program, including the civil works,
eqtuipment and vehicles, trainini   and techniical assistance, and the project
benefit monitoring system, ullder a special project directorate (para 5.10).



- 15 -
Technical Assistance
5.03      An expatriate advisor would be retained for a three-year period
to work with PROSIDA's General Manager, to assist with all aspects of his
work and to strengthen the Provincial operation and maintenance organiza-
tions in all IDA assisted rehabilitation projects executed by PROSIDA.
5.04      The delta of the Cimanuk river occupies part of the Rentang area
(para 3.01) and, over the last 60 years, many old river channels have
silted Up and closed.  The coast has accreted and flood relief channels
have been constructed. These flood relief channels suffer from siltation
and levees on the main river and relief channels have sunk. The DGWRD has
staff working on these problems. Two individual experts would be retained
by the DGWRD to help his staff on the Cimanuk delta. They would visit
Indonesia for periods of about one month at intervals of approximately six
months, and on each occasion would recommend action to take for (a) reduc-
tion of flooding in the area; (b) selection of suitable flood relief chan-
nels for development; (c) stabilization of channel banks; and (d) combating
of coastal accretion. A total of 12 man-months would be provided.
5.05      An individual soil conservation expert would be employed by MOA
to advise him on river and stream stabilization methods, correct cropping
techniques, establishing forest and vegetation belts and terracing in the
Cimanuk catchment area (para 5.12). The work would be carried out under
MOA's Directorate of Forestry working with the local authorities on farmers'
own land. The expert would visit Indonesia for about six weeks, at suitable
intervals as required by MOA. A ttotal of 12 man-months would be provided.
5.06      An agricultural planning and management specialist would be engaged
to assist the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) to prepare the agricultural de-
velopment program for the project and later to assist in monitoring the plan
in the field, particularly in extension services and data collection. He
would visit Indonesia for about one month at three months intervals in the
early project stages and at longer intervals later in the project, as re-
quired by MDA.  A total of 12 man-months would be provided.
5.07      An advisor would be retained by the MOA to assist them in preparing
survey metlhods, questionnaire and the data processing system for monitoring
the benefits in the irrigation rehabilitation projects assisted by the Bank
Group (para 5.14).  He would visit Indonesia for about six weeks twice in the
first six months of the project and thereafter as required by MOA -- probably
about one month a year.  A total of 12 man-months would be provided.
5.08      Assurances were obtained that GOI would engage these specialists
within six months of Loan signing. Draft terms of reference for the spe-
cialists is included in Annex 4. GOI considers that for thie work described
in paragraphs 5.04 through 5.07 the best and most economic technical assis-
tance would be obtained by visiting specialists rather than fulltime advisors,
since each recommended action would take time to fulfill and GOI agencies
would be competent to undertake it without (lay-to-day supervision.



- 16 -
Training
5.09      To help overcome the shortage of trained and experienced irriga-
tion and agricultural personnel the project includes funds for training.
While local training would continue at the Bandung Technical Academy and
Surabaya Training Institute, under the DGWRD's Director of Training, the
project provides funds for overseas training of some twenty Provincial
0 & M engineers for about three montlhs each; preparation of audio-visual
training courses for 0 & M foremen and sub-foremen; sending six senior
Provincial engineers on study tours of two months each in neighboring
countries; sending six middle-level Provincial engineers overseas for
water-management training of about three months duration; sending six
DGWRD engineers for overseas post graduate training for planning and
design for twelve months; sending eight MOA senior staff in agricultural
management, extension activities and crop data collection for overseas
training courses of three months duration; and sending ten middle-level
MOA staff working on the project for three months overseas training
courses to study their particular speciality. Assurances were obtained
that, within 12 months of the date of Loan signing, GOI would submit the
training program to the Bank for consultation before commencing the pro-
gram. Details are presented in Annex 8.
Agricultural Supporting Services
5.10      The strengthening of agricultural supporting services would be
achieved through the normal channels of the MOA.  The D)irector General of
Agriculture would nominate a Director to supervise the projects and a proj-
ect manager to be located in Cirebon, responsible for agricultural exten-
sion, research and training activities in the project. Twelve Rtural Exten-
sion Centers would be established in Cirebon and Rentang areas for farmer
training. MOA would assign the appropriate staff to the area. Equipment,
vehicles and a communications system would be provided for agriculture.
5.11      To improve agricultural production, the full tertiary and quater-
nary development (para 4.04) has been included in the project, and to obtain
maximum benefits the BIMAS program, covering extension, improved seeds, fer-
tilizer, pesticides and credit, would be expanded. An Agricultural Develop-
ment Center would built for training local agricultural staff, collecting
data and expanding the BIMAS program. iMOA, provincial irrigation engineers
and farmers' groups would work together closely to improve water distribu-
tion and management, particularly in the pilot project areas. Farmers would
be trained in the Rural Extension Centers and rodent control would be coor-
dinated through local authorities.  An outline of the proposed agricultural
program is presented in Annex 3. Assuirances were obtained that (a) adequate
supplies of fertilizers, agricultural clhemicals and credit would be avail-
able to farmers aIs works on thie irrigation systems are completed; (b) GOI
would appoint suitably quialified and sufficient staff for the Agricultural
Development Centre and for project development; and (c) zan agreed agricul-
tural dlevelopment program for the project would be submitted to the Bank



- 17 -
within 12 months of Loan signing, and the program would be implemented. The
agricultural support program for Sampean Baru would be included in that for
Pekalen-Sampean, the much larger area, which surrounds it (para 3.02).
Cimanuk Soil Conservation Program
5.12      Soil erosion in the Cimanuk catchment is serious.  Due to pressure
on land, steep slopes have been improperly cultivated and erosion hias occurred
with the consequent silting of streams and rivers in the Cirebon and Rentang
areas and the catchment area of the proposed Jatigede Dam (para 2.04). Under
the project MOA would implement a program of soil conservation in the catch-
ment area, involving stream and river stabilization, development of better
agronomic techniques and establishment of forestry and vegetation belts in
cooperation with PROSIDA, local authorities and farmers. With advice from a
specialist (para 5.05) these works would be implemented with a view to creating
a Cimanuk catchment authority before project completion.  This program would
complement the UNDP Waterslhed Management project in progress in thie Madiun-Solo
area.
Groundwater Investigation
5.13      This work, financed under Credit 289-IND, has been delayed due to
highi costs and delays in equipment deliveries.  The consultant's contract
hias consequently been extended. The cost of this investigation was originally
estimated to be US$1.7 million and would now be US$2.4 million. The project
would finance foreign exclhange costs for equipment and consultants to com-
plete the groundwater investigations after April 15, 1975, amounting to
US$500,000.
Monitoring Benefits
5.14      The project benefits would be monitored, togethler withl other social
aspects sucti as distribution of thiese benef its between slharecroppers, land-
owners and landless laborers. Thie monitoring system would be extended to
all the irrigation projects, in wlhichi tile lanik Croup has been involved.  Tlie
project would provide a constultant to assist GOI in selecting survey criteria
and  metlhods (para 5.07) and advise on survey irnplementation.  The surveys
w.otuld be imlplemented by M(OA annually from project commencement for about ten
years.  Assurances were obtainie( that GOI would subnit to the iBank a proposal
for monitoring benefits witlhin six montlhs of Loan signing.
Operation and Maintenance
5.15      Operation and maintenance (O&Ml) of the irrigation systems and rural
roads is the responsibility of the Provincial Governments which, because of
inadequate funding, have failed to establish satisfactory organizations for
this purpose. In spite of improvements in the arrangements for 0 & M in
the fouLr on-going irrigation projects financed by ID)A, there is still need
for more trained staff, as well as an increase in budgetary allocations.
The expected increase in IPEDA (tlie land tax) and the added revenues from
oil slhould permit tue Provincial Govermnents to allocate inore funds to 0 & M.
PROSID)A, witlh the assistance of its 0 & M advisor, would be responsible for



- 18 -
0 & M during the construction phase and during that time would help the
Provinces to build up adequate organization and staff. PROSIDA would prepare
a manual for the Provincial Governments indicating numbers and type of staff
required, amounts of material, equipment and vehicles needed, and annual bud--
getary demands for 0 & M for each irrigation area. Assurances were obtained
that GOI would (a) provide PROSIDA with adequate and timely funds to maintain
all project works properly during the construction period; (b) cause the
Provincial Governments to allocate sufficient funds and staff to ensure proper
maintanence of all project works and rural roads as soon as they were comple-
ted; and (c) submit PROSIDA's 0 & M plans to the Bank for review within three
years of Loan signing.
Recovery of Costs
5.16      Taxes  The cost of 0 & M after rehabilitation would be about Rp
2,600/ha/annum (US$6.30). Although a legal basis exists for levying water
charges, farmers in Indonesia at present pay only IPEDA collected by the
village heads and used by the local and provincial administration for management
of public services. GOI has recently tied the disbursement of INPRES, a
local infrastructure development program financed by the central government,
to IPEDA collection performance. Under this incentive program, additional
disbursements for local development are made when the IPEDA collection
exceeds a mutually agreed target. As a result, there were marked improvements
in the collection of IPEDA in the last two years and this trend is expected
to continue. In addition to IPEDA, farmers pay village taxes and other
contributions for road maintenance, schools, public buildings and mosque
construction. In the project areas these taxes generally amount to about
the same as IPEDA.
5.17      Since June 1972, a GOI interministerial committee has been studying
methods of collecting a portion of the increase in farm income from irriga-
tion development to cover 0 & M costs and a portion of the investment costs.
The committee's preliminary recommendation was that irrigation charges should
be collected by means of increases in IPEDA and that IPEDA would be assessed
at 5% of net value of production (NVP) of the land. This method of collect-
ing irrigation charges is the most appropriate and practicable in the Indonesian
context and GOI has agreed to implement it. Currently, the average annual
IPEDA in the project areas is between Rp 1,200 and Rp 2,000/ha. However,
under the 5% of NVP concept, this figure would rise to between Rp 2,000 or
Rp 2,500/ha by 1983, even without the project. With the project it is
estimated that as a result of land reclassification, the average IPEDA in
the project areas would rise to about Rp 6,000/ha.
5.18      Project Revenues.  After completion of the Cirebon project, the
annual increase in IPEDA would be about Rp 352 million. At an annual
discount rate of 10% over 50 years, the present worth of the incremental
revenues would be about Rp 1,560 million. The present worth of the project
cost plus 0 & M costs, at the same interest rate would be about Rp 12,560
million, indicating a cost recovery ratio of about 12.5%. On the other hand,
if interest rate is not considered, the project costs would be fully recovered
within about 50 years. In view of the small farm sizes and relatively low



- 19 -
income even at full development, this is considered to be reasonable. The
situation for Rentang would be similar to Cirebon. In the case of Sampean
Baru, where the IPEDA base is extremely low, and the tax at full development
similar to Cirebon, the incremental revenue would be higher. Assurances
were obtained from GOI that, as each tertiary network under the project is
completed, it would collect IPEDA from landowners at such level required to
recover full 0 & M costs and a reasonable portion of the capital costs of
the project; proposed IPEDA rates would be submitted to the Bank for review
every two years commencing four years after Loan signing.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOME
Production
6.01      Paddy would continue to be the dominant crop after completion of
the project. In the Sampean Baru area cropping intensity would increase from
90% at present to 185% at full development, but only a marginal increase
in cropping intensity would take place in Cirebon and Rentang. Important
improvements in cultivation practice expected in all three project areas
include a substantial increase in the area planted to HYV paddy, an increase
in the use of fertilizers, pesticides and other inputs and the replacement
of manual labor, where it is still used for plowing, by buffaloes.
6.02      At full development ten years after project commencement, average
paddy yields would vary between 4.0 ton/ha in the Sampean Baru scheme and
4.5 ton/ha in the Cirebon and Rentang schemes. Comparable, and even higher
yields, are already being obtained in the better parts of the irrigation
projects already rehabilitated. Total paddy production from all three schemes
would be about 950,000 tons at full development, compared with 500,000 tons at
present. Production of secondary crops would also increase from about 22,000
tons at present to 37,000 tons at full development, while the corresponding
ncrease of sugarcane production in the Cirebon and Rentang areas would be
from 675,000 to 860,000 tons. Without the project production would increase
about 1% per annum, in spite of deteriorating systems, due to improved agri-
cultural inputs and services. Details of present and future yields and
production are given in Annex 1.
Market Prospects and Prices
6.03      Indonesia has imported between 0.5 and 1.5 million tons of rice
in recent years and it is expected that some imports will be needed for at
least the next decade. Thus the incremental 255,000 tons of milled rice that
would be produced in the project areas at full development would find a ready
market in Indonesia. The quantity of secondary crops to be produced would
be small relative to demand and there would be no difficulties in selling
the marketable surplus in nearby towns. The small amount of sugar and cotton
would be readily sold by State marketing organizations. Most rice mills are



- 20 -
orivatelv owned and are now operated at less than full capacity.  It is rea-
sonable to expect that the private sector would expand the drying, storage
and milling facilities in the project areas as production increases.
6.04      Inputs and outputs were evaluated at projected farm gate prices
expressed in terms of 1974 constant prices. For the major internationally
traded commodities, these prices are based on the Bank's world market price
projections of November 1974. The Bank projects the world market price of
average quality Thai rice to fall from around US$450 per ton fob Bangkok in
1974 to US$190 per ton (at constant 1974 prices) in 1985. Although the
implied deterioration in the terms of trade for agriculture has been taken
into account in the economic analysis, it is expected that the financial
impact as reflected in the farm budget analysis would be different (Annex 9).
The paddy farm-gate price equivalent to a 1974 world market price for rice
of US$450 per ton is Rp 120 per kg (US$0.29/kg). Because of Government policy
to keep the price of food to consumers low, the actual farm-gate price of paddy
is held at Rp 40 per kg by selling imported rice below cost. At the same
time, the Government subsidizes fertilizers and other imported inputs sold
to farmers. The 1974 farm-gate price of urea, for instance, based on the world
market price would be Rp 120 per kg, while the subsidized BIMAS price is
Rp 40 per kg. Thus the relative price to farmers of inputs and outputs is
roughly equal to the relative world market price, while the price level is
maintained artificially low. At full development it is assumed that both
economic and financial prices for inputs and outputs will coincide at the
Bank's lower projected world market prices (at 1974 constant prices). For
example, the farm-gate price of paddy is projected to be Rp 53 per kg and
of urea, Rp 63 per kg (Annex 10).
Farm Income
6.05      Farming in the project areas is mostly subsistence in nature.  In
Cirebon and Rentang, paddy is the principal crop, grown mainly for family
consumption. Cash income is derived from the sale of surplus paddy and other
crops such as vegetables and soyabeans, as well as earnings from off-farm
employment. In Sampean Baru, paddy, corn and cassava are grown primarily
for home consumption. Some cash income is obtained from selling the surplus
but in many years the paddy and corn crops fail, cassava is eaten at home
and there is no marketable surplus.
6.06      Separate farm models have been prepared for each of the project
areas. In the Cirebon and Rentang areas where about 20% of the farmers are
sharecroppers, this group has been analyzed separately. In Sampean Baru,
incomes under tenancy arrangements would be too low to support a sharecropper 's
family and sharecropping is therefore insignificant. In all areas there are
many landless laboxers, but income data for this group were not available.
The estimated present crop income and that projected at full development
for the various farm models are presented in detail in Annex 9 and summarized
below:



- 21 -
Farm Income
Farm               Present  Future      Present  Future
Area           Size  Farm System  -- Rp '000 ---
Cirebon/Rentang      0.25  Owner Farming    30       65          72      160
Sharecropping    15       33         36        80
0.5   Owner Farming    52      120         125      290
Sharecropping    26       60         65       150
1.5   Owner Farming   132      310        320       750
Sharecropping    68      160        165       390
Sampean Baru         0.25  Owner Farming      8      56          20      140
0.5   Owner Farming    12      126          30      300
1.0   Owner Farming    62      212         150      510
6.07      Farm incomes in the project areas at present are extremely low.
Small holdings of 0.5 ha and less typically do not produce even enough food
for subsistence. In the Cirebon and Rentang areas, income from off-farm
employment accounts for half or more of total family income for small owner-
operators. Sharecroppers have to rely even more heavily on outside sources
of income. In Sampean Baru, heads of families are typically part-time
farmers who work as laborers in nearby towns and return to their farms
seasonally to assist with land preparation and more strenuous farm work.
Women and children take care of farm management and harvesting. Farm produc-
tion serves as a supplement to income earned off the farm.
6.08      Although it is difficult to compare crop incomes derived from farm
budgets with aggregate data from the national income accounts, a few simple
comparisons indicate the extent of poverty in the project areas. Even with
the project, owner operated small farms in all three areas would be at bare
subsistence levels with per capita 1/ net crop incomes of less than US$20 per
annum, or less than one-third the national per capita income of US$85.
Sharecroppers would be even worse off. Even the few larger owner operated
farms of around 1.0 to 1.5 ha have per capita incomes less than US$50 at
present and must rely on some off-farm income. With the project, this group
could expect to produce a consistent surplus above family needs, but per
capita net crop incomes would still be less than US$110 in all cases.
Because there is so little socio-economic information on the project areas,
emphasis would be placed on monitoring project benefits and determining
the project's impact on income levels and distribution (para 5.14).
1/   Family of seven.



- 22 -
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The proposed project would increase yields on about 190,000 ha in
three areas currently dependent on run-of-the-river irrigation and rainfed
cultivation by providing better water control, improved drainage and the
necessary agricultural supporting services. Paddy would continue to be the
dominant crop in all three areas. Assuming a 50-year project life, farm
gate prices for major inputs and outputs based on the Bank's commodity
price projections for 1985 and a seasonally variable shadow wage rate for
farm labor, the economic rates of return (ERR) would be about 38% on the
Cirebon project, 44% on the Rentang project and 18% on the Sampean Baru
project. Alternatively, if a 30-year project life were used, the ERR's
would be not change in any project area by even 1%.  The high rates of
return for Cirebon and Rentang reflect the priority of rehabilitating and
completing these two systems to achieve quick production benefits. All three
project areas suffer from chronic unemployment and underemployment. The
project would improve the situation considerably by creating the equivalent
of some 45,000 full-time agricultural jobs by 1985 (Annex 10).
7.02      The rates of return show little sensitivity to the assumptions
made in evaluating farm labor. They are more sensitive to the level and
pace of agricultural development, which emphasizes the importance of an
effective agricultural extension service and the timely availability of
adequate farm inputs. Under the adverse assumptions tested in the sensi-
tivity analysis (Annex 10), in no case did the rate of return on any project
fall below 14%.
7.03      At full agricultural development, rice import savings due to the
project would amount to US$53 million per year at the 1985 projected world
market price cif Jakarta (at constant 1974 prices) of US$208 per ton.
Smaller amounts would be saved by the production of secondary crops. After
deducting the incremental cost of imported fertilizers and chemicals, the
net annual foreign exchange savings from incremental rice production alone
would be about US$47 million.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following
principal points:
(a) GOI would, through PROSIDA and its appropriate local agencies,
guide and direct farmers in completing the civil works on each
tertiary and quaternary canal system and would cause such works
to be completed within 12 months after the completion of the
first 50m of each tertiary by PROSIDA. Where farmers fail to
complete such works, GOI would complete them (para 4.04);



- 23 -
(b) Consultants, acceptable to the Bank, would be engaged by DGWRD
on terms of reference and conditions approved by the Bank within
three months of Loan signing (para 4.05);
(c) GOI would ensure that (i) adequate supplies of fertilizers,
agricultural chemicals and credit would be available to farmers;
(ii) suitably qualified and sufficient staff would be appointed
for the agricultural development centre and project agricultural
development; and (iii) an agreed agricultural development
program for the project would be submitted to the Bank within
12 months of Loan signing, and the program would be implemented
(para 5.11); and
(d) GOI would (i) provide PROSIDA with adequate and timely funds to
maintain all project works properly during the construction
period; (ii) cause the Provincial Governments to allocate
sufficient funds and staff to ensure proper maintenance of all
project works and rural roads as soon as they were completed
and (iii) submit PROSIDA's 0 & M manual to the Bank for review
within three years of Loan signing (para 5.15).
8.02      The proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$65
million, with 30 years maturity including six year grace. The Borrower
would be GOI.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Agricultural Production
General
1.        The previous five irrigation projects in Indonesia and the Irriga-
tion Program Survey have described in some details tne soil, climate and
cultural practices of paddy planting and, therefore, in this Annex it is not
proposed to repeat these details. Climatic data relating to the project area
are given in Table 10. Suffice to say, that the soil and climate are suit-
able for growing paddy as a main crop and for a variety of secondary crops in
the dry season.
Present Cropping Pattern
2.        Cirebon - During the wet season about 82,000 ha are cultivated with
paddy and 7,000 ha with sugar. A small area of secondary crops on tne higher
ground is planted with soyabeans and other cash crops, such as corn. During
the dry season, flow in the many rivers and streams is drastically reduced;
springs arising from the foothills of the volcano -- Gunong Ciremai -- how-
ever, do provide a reasonably reliable flow enabling about 10,000 ha of paddy
to be grown, and about 7,000 ha of sugarcane (sugarcane grows on a 14-month
rotation and, therefore, continues throughout both the wet and dry seasons),
as well as 18,000 ha of secondary crops. Crop intensity is therefore about
140%.
3.       lWet season paddy is grown between November and May, and both the
planting and harvesting periods are spread over about an eight-week period
due to the rotational system of supplying water and also due to possible
late arrival of the rains.
4.        During the wet season some 30,000 ha of local variety paddy and
about 50,000 ha of HYV are grown wherever the soil and water supply are most
effective. In the dry season about 10,000 ha of IiYV paddy are grown wherever
the water supply is most reliable.
5.        1~Rentang - During the wet season about 92,000 ha of paddy is
planted throughout the area.  In the dry season about 25,000 ha are planted
with paddy and about 2,000 ha witih secondary crops, making a harvested
cropping intensity of 130%. Generally, in the dry season, larger areas may
be planted with paddy but, due to lack of water from the Cimanuk River, these
areas are niever harvested.  The timing of planting is similar to that of
Cirebon, although in the poorly drained areas some planting may be delayed
inlto February.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
6.        In the wet season, local varieties of paddy are planted on about
42,000 hia by tie traditional method of transplanting.  In addition, some
8,000 ha are direct seeded and 42,000 ha are planted with HYV.  In the dry
season, generally, only HYV paddy is planted in areas (25,000 ha) with thie
best water supply.
7.        Sampean Baru - During the wet season about 2,000 ha of local
variety paddy are planted and about 2,500 ha of corn are interplanted with
cassava. During the dry season 1,300 ha of cassava, 600 ha soyabeans and
400 ha cotton are planted. In both the wet and dry seasons crops depend
entirely on the amount of rainfall and, usually, large areas suffer from
crop failure. In normal years the cropping intensity is about 90%.
Present Yields
8.        Cirebon - Yields vary widely due to the different varieties
planted and the different conditions of water supply and drainage. On the
average, local varieties yield 1.5 ton/ha per wet season crop, and HYV yield
nearly 3 ton/ha, giving a weighted average of 2.8 ton/ha. Yield during
the dry season for HYV is slightly lower, but not significantly so. For the
secondary crop, soyabeans have been used as the model with yields as low as
0.7 on/ha. Sugarcane yield is about 90 ton/ha.
9.        Rentang - The yields of paddy vary due to variety, condition of
drainage and water supply in the various areas. On the average, local
varieties yield 1.7 ton/ha, and HYV yield 3.5 ton/ha planted in rehabilitated
areas, giving a weighted avarage of 3.(; ton/ha.  There is a slight decline
in the dry season (Table 6).
10.       Sampean Baru - Paddy yield is about 1.5 ton/ha in normal years.
The yield of secondary crops is: Soyabeans 0.4 ton/ha, cassava 3.0 ton/ha
and cotton about 1 ton/ha (Table 8).
Future Cropping Pattern
11.       Cirebon/Rentang - Without the project thie present cropping intensity
would remain at the same level.  With the project the improved water supply,
due to rehabilitation, would cause a small increase in the cropping intensity
of about 5X, bringing Cirebon to 145% and Rentang to 135%.
12.       Sampean Baru - With irrigation, nearly the entire area would be
planted witlh IIYV paddy and, in the dry season, although the paddy will be
planted wherever water is available, for purposes of the project evaluation
it lhas been assumed thiat soyabeans would be the main crop, covering nearly
9,000( ha.  Cropping intensity would be 185/.  Cotton would reilain as a small
estate crop.
Future Yields
13.       Cirebon/Rentang - With good water control, drainage, an adequate
supply of agricultural inputs and credit, as well as a strengthened extension



AiNNEX 1
Page 3
service, future paddy yields in the wet season would be expected to reacih
4.5 ton/iha with HYV, wiciih would increasingly become  the major crop in botn
seasons. Yields of secorLdary crops, taking soyabeans as the project example,
would ris;e to 1.2 ton/ha, and sugarcane would rise to 115 ton/ha (Tables 5
and 7).
14.       Sampean Baru - With the completion of project construction and the
strengthened agricultural support program, at full development paddy yield
would reach 4.0 ton/ha, soyabeans 1.0 ton/ha and cotton 1.5 ton/na (Table 9).
Drying and Storage
15.       Drying is generally carried out on a flat concrete floor at the
rice mills or on the roadside outside the houses. Losses can be very heavy
in the event of rains coninciding witih the harvesting. Paddy or dry stalk
paddy (that is, paddy grain with about 15 cm stalk) is usually stored in the
hiome in bags or on racks, and villages generally lhave small paddy barns.
Losses are fairly high due to rodents. Storage capacity in the project area
can readily be expanded to take care of increased production by the local
farmers.   Losses would be reduced under tihe project by tile farmers' training
program.
Processing
16.       The rice mills and hullers in Cirebon/Rentang and Sampean Baru
are running at no more than 75% capacity. It is expected that private
enterprise would increase capacity, as necessary, as the output from the
project increases. It is the Government's policy to expand the number of
small hullers in the areas.
larketing
17.       The farmer generally sells his surplus paddy to Government organi-
zations at a set floor price.  On thie other hand, poorest farmers sell their
crop to middlemen before the harvest so that the farmer obtains credit for
ihis subsistence needs.  Tihese poor farmers theen receive a price below the
floor price for their crops.  GOI's plans are to expand its purchasing faci-
lities in the areas, as well as credit facilities, and it is hoped that
througlh prolect development, farmers would receive the full floor price.
fables Attached(
1.  Cirebon              -    Cropping pattern and production
2.  iRentang              -    Cropping pattern and production
3.  Samapean Baru         -    Cropping pattern and production
4.  Cirebon                    Value of present production
5.  Cirebon               -    Value of future production with project
6.  Rentang               -    Value of present production
7.  Rentang               -    Value of future production with project
8.  Sampean Baru          -    Value of present production
9.  Sampean Baru          -    Value of future production with project
10.  Climatic data



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Cirebon: Cropping Pattern and Production
Cropped Area                      Crop Production
_  31          w 3/                p               w
(ha)----------                 ------(ton'OOO)--------
Wet Season
Local Variety Paddy                28,500           8,500              43                20
HVY Paddy                          53,000          73,000             148               329
Sugar Cane 1/                       7,000           7,000              -                 -
Secondary Crops 2/                  1,500           1,500               1                 1
Sub-Total                       90(000          Yo,ooo            (192)            (70)
Dry Season
HYV Paddy                          10,000          16,000              25                67
Sugar Cane 1/                       7,000           7,000             630              805
Secondary Crops 2/                 18,000          16 000              13                19
Sub-Total                      35,000                             (MU)             (591)
Total                         125,000          17-900             (B7) (17 1)
Paddy                              91,500          97,500             216              416
Sugar Cane                         14,000          14,000             630               805
Other Crops                        19,500          17,500              14                20
Cropping Intensity (%)                  140             145-
1/ Production is presented as a dry season crop.
2/  Comprising corn, soyabean and vegetables.  Soyabean used as a sample crop for project analysis.                 H
3/  P: present, and W: with project.                                                                                I ~



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Rentang: Cropping Pattern and Production
Cropped Area                     Crop Production
P3/            WI3                P                _W
----- (ha)_-------------           -----(ton'000)-
Wet Season
Local Variety Paddy             48,500          12,500              82                 29
HYV Paddy                       43,000          79,000             129                356
Sugar Cane 1/                      500             500              -                  -
Sub-Total                    92,000          92,000            (211)              (375
Dry Season
HYV Paddy                       25,000          28,000              70                118
Sugar Cane 1/                      500             500              45                 58
Secondary Crops 2/               1,500           4,000               1                  5
Sub-Total                    27,000          32,500            (li)               (1BT)
Total                       119,000124,                        (p17)              (Z6)
Paddy                          116,500         119,500             281                503
Suggar Cane                      1,000           1,000              45                 58
Other Crops                      1,500           4.,ooo              1                  5
Cropping Intensity (%)                130             135
1/ Production is presented as a dry season crop.
2/ Comprising corn, soyabean and vegetables. Soyabean used as a sample crop for project analysis.
3/ P: present, and W: with project.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECr VI
Sampean Baru: Cropping Pattern and Production
Cropped Area                   Crop Production
P 5/           Ni                P_              w
------   (ha)-------------         ------(ton'OOO)----------
Wet Season
Local Variety Paddy 1/           2,000              -              3.0               -
HYV Paddy 2/                        -            7,500                             30.0
Corn                             2,500           1,900             2.0              3.8
Cassava  3/                      2.000              -              o.6               -
Sub-Total                     6,500           9,400             37              3T.T
Dry Season
Cassava                          1,300              -              3.9
Soyabean                            600          8,600             0.2              8.6
Cotton (Seed)                      400             400             0.4              0.6
Sub-Total                     2,300                            (1:) (9)
Total                         6, 8l 1                          (10.1)          (4177)
Paddy                            2,000           7,500             3.0             30.0
Cotton (Seed)                      400             400             0.4              o.6
Other Crops                      6,400          10,500             6.7             12.4
Cropping Intensity 4/ (%)              90            185
1/ Rainfed paddy.
2/ Irrigated paddy.
3/  Cassava interplanted with corn.
4/  Total net area:  9,800 ha.
5/ P: present, and W: with project.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Cirebon: Value of Present Production
Gross Value                        Net Value        Net Return
Cropped                     Farm Gate          of              Producti qn        of    3/         from
Area         Yield          Price        Production            Costs3       Production-      Project Area
(ha)       (ton/ha)        (Rp/ton)      ---------------(Rp'000/ha)---------------           (Rp million)
Wet Season
Local Variety Paddy               28,500          1.5          120,000           180.0            25.6            154.4           4,400
HYV Paddy 1/                      53,000          2.8          120,000           336.0            48.8            287.2          15,222
Sugar Cane-    2/                  7,000           -              -                -                                                  7 1
Secondary Crops-                   1,500          0.4          130,000            52.0             4.9             47.1               71
Sub-Total                       90,000                                                                                         19,693
Dry Season
HYV Paddy 1/                      10,000          2.5          120,000           300.0            46.4             253.6           2,536
Sugar Cane-    2                   7,000         90.0           23,200         2,088.0           141.5          1,946.5           13,626
Secondary Crops-/                 18,000          0.7          130,000            91.0             5.1              85.9           1,546
Sub-Total                       35,000                                                                                         17,708
Total                            125,000                                                                                          37,401
Cropping Intensity (%)                 140
1/ Production is presented as a dry-season crop.
2/ Cash crops such as corn and soyabean. Soyabean used as a sample secondary crop for project analysis.
3/  Exclude labor costs.
.I  )



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Cirebon: Value of Projected Production at Full Development
Gross Value                        Net Value        Net Return
Cropped                      Farm Gate           of             Producti            of      3/       from
Area         Yield           Price         Production            Costs -      Production -    Project Area
(ha)       (ton/ha)        (Rp/ton)              ------------(Rp0o0o/ha)--------------         (Rp million)
Wet Season
Local Variety Paddy               8,500           2.3            53,000           121.9             28.3            93.6                796
HYV Paddy                        73,000           4.5            53,000           238.5             43.8           194.7            14,213
Sugar Cane-    2                  7,000            -               -                -                -               -                  -
Secondary Crops2/                 1,500           0.8           104,000            83.2              8.3            74.9                112
Sub-Total                      90,000                                                                                             15,121
Dry Season
HYV Paddy                        16,000           4.2            53,000           222.6             43.0           179.6              2,874
Sugar Cane"/                      7,000         115.0             8,400           966.0            162.0           804.0              5,628
Secondary Crops2/                16,000           1.2           104,000           124.8              9.7           115.1              1,842
Sub-Total                      39,000                                                                                             10,344
Total                             129,000                                                                                              25,465
Cropping Intensity (%)                145
1/ Production is presented as a dry season crop.
2/ Cash crops such as corn and soyabean. Soyabean used as a sample secondary crop for project analysis.
3/  Exclude labor costs.                                          
mX



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
*Rentang: Value of Present Production
Gross Value                        Net Value         Net Returns
Cropped                        Farm Gate            of            Producteopn          of    4/          from
Area            Yield           Price         Production          Costs-        Production-       Project Area
(ha)          (ton/ha)       (Rp/ton)        ----(Rp'000/ha)---------------                       (Rp million)
Wet Season
Local Variety Paddy./         48,500            1.7           120,000             204.0             25.6             178.4             8,652
HYV Paddy 2/                  43,000            3.0           120,000             360.0             48.8             311.2            13,382
Sugar Cane-                       500            -                -                                                                  _ _ _ _
Sub-Total                   92,000                                                                                                 22,034
Dry Season
HYV Paddy 2/                  25,000            2.8           120,000             336.0             46.4             289.6             7,240
Sugar Cane-                       500          90.0             23,200          2,088.0            141.5           1,946.5               973
Secondary Crops                1.500            0.7           130,000              91.0              5.1              85.9               129
Sub-Total                   27,000                                                                                                   8,342
Total                           119,000                                                                                                 30,376
Cropping Intensity (%)              130
1/ Includes 29,000 ha under transplanted rice and 20,000 ha under directly seeded rice.
2/ Production is presented as a dry season crop.
3/ Soyabean used as a sample crop for project analysis.
4/  Exclude labor costs.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Rentang: Value of Projected Production at Full Development
Gross Value                       Net Value       Net Return
Cropped                        Farm Gate           of          ProductV/n           of     4        from
Area             Yield          Price       Production          Costs -       Production -   Project Area
(ha)          (ton/ha)       (Rp/ton)       ---------------(Rp'00/ha)-----(Rp million)
Wet Season
Local Variety Paddyl/            12,500            2.3            53,000           121.9            28.3            93.6              1,170
HYV Paddy                        79,000            4.5            53,000           238.5            43.8           194.7             15,381
Sugar Cane_2/                       500             -               -                -               -               -              _
Sub-Total                     92,000                                                                                              16,551
Dry Season
HYV Paddy                        28,000            4.2            53,000           222.6            43.0           179.6              5,029
Sugar Cane2/                        500          115.0             8,400           966.0           162.0           804.0                402
Secondary Crops3/                 4,000            1.2           104,000           124.8             9.7           115.1                460
Sub-Total                     32,500                                                                                               5,891
Total                             124,500                                                                                              22,442
Cropping Intensity (%)                135
1/ Includes 10,000 ha under transplanted rice and 3,000 ha under directly seeded rice.
2/ Production is presented as a dry season crop.
3/  Soyabean used as a sample crop for project analysis.
4/  Exclude labor costs.                                                                                                                              x



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Sampean Baru: Value of Present Production
Gross Value                        Net Value        Net Returns
Cropped                       Farm Gate            of           Productkpn           of      4/       from
Area            Yield         Price          Production        Costs -         Production    _Project Area
(ha)          (ton/ha)      (Rp/ton)-                -            '(p r000 /ha)-------------  (Rp million)
Wet Season
Local Variety Paddyl!/             2,000            1.5           120,000           180.0             25.6            154.4             309
Corn   2                           2,500            0.8            50,000            40.0             12.3             27.7              69
Cassava-                          2,000             0.3              7,000            2.1              1.4               0.7              1
Sub-Total                       6,500                                                                                                 379
Dry Season
Cassava2/                          1,300            3.0              7,000           21.0              4.6              16.4             21
Soyabean                             600            0.4            130,000           52.0              5.1             46.9               28
Cotton (seed)                        400            1.0            244,000          244.0             53.2             190.8              76
Sub-Total                       2,300                                                                                                 125
Total                                8,800                                                                                                 504
Cropping Intensity3/ (%)                90
1/ Rainfed paddy.
2/ Cassava interplanted with corn.
3/  Total net area:  9,800 ha.
4/  Excludes labor costs.
02 0



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Sampean Baru: Value of Projected Production at Full Development
Groas Value                 Net Value    Not Return
Cropped              Farm-Gate         of         Production       of   1/    from
Area       Yield       Price      Production       Coate /   Productior- ProJect Area
7&(Tonh)    (Rpt-onJ               --Rp'i--/---)--(Rp m-illion)
Wet Season
HYV Paddy                  7#500       4. o       53,000         212e0        43.8           168.2        1,262
Corn                       1,900       2.0        43,000          86.0        16e3            69.7          132
Sub-total          9,1400                                                                         1,394
Dry Season
Soyabean                   8,600       1.0       104,000         10).O         9.7            94.3           81
Cotton (seed)                400       1.5       178,000         267,0         46.o          221.0            08
Sub-total          9,000                                                                            899
Total                     18,400                                                                           2,293
Cropping Intensity (%):        185
2/ Pclude labor cost8,



AJli] 1
Table 1o
INDONEA
IRRIgATION PROJECT VI
Average Annual Rainfall -
Above          Averag e                                 Above          Average
Station      Sea Level    Annual Rainfall               Station      Sea Level    Annual Rainfa3l
(in)      ~(nmm)                                    (mn)           (mm)
Cirebon Area                                            Sampean Baru Area
Losarang             4             1434                Waduk I              375            1892
MaJalengkIa        145             3137                 Tengger               20           1102
Plumbon             17             2150                 Kelabang             3148          1652
Maja               600             3951 2/              Damtaal              210           1656
Telaga             500             3135                 Wonosroyo           250            17146
Setupatok           21             2396                Dam Jero             230            1805
Linggarjati        550             3541 2/              Bondowoso           255            1990
Kuningan           1480            2723                 Lojajar             286            1792
Darma              500             2647                 Stimberbendo         310           2019
Ambit               25             2250                 Ancar                350           2074
Cikeusik            28             2243                Massan               370            21141
Suurwatu            10             1853                Tamanan              340            1916
Walahar             34             2472                 Sukowono             335           2377
&Skahaji            80             3291                 Pinangpait          485            2022
Lame               1145            2908                 Paidlaan             530           2030
SidangJawa         115             2783                 Naskuning            354           2115
Sadarehe         1,100             4997 2/              Tlogosari           530            2337
Mandiracan         350             3528                 Arjasa                10            988
Cangkuang            5             1827                Ka3isat            1,170            2614
Bayeman             130            1338
1/ Records cover the periods 1920-1940 and 1956 to pregent.
2/ Outside project area on the higher elevation.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Agricultural Support Program
Cirebon/Rentang/Sampean Baru
Organizations
1.        The existing agricultural supporting services in Java have been
described in the last five IDA irrigation projects, and also in detail in
the Irrigation Program Survey. It is therefore proposed to summarize briefly
the services herein. The Government organizations with whom the farmers have
dealings with regard to agriculture and irrigation are as follows:
(a) BIMAS which gives a farm input package and credit program;
(b) BRI (The Peoples Bank of Indonesia) which provides credit
within the BIMAS program;
(c) BUUD - A successor to the cooperatives in the villages,
which purchases paddy and sells agricultural inputs,
provides rice milling facilities and some extension within
the BIMAS program;
(d) MOA - The provincial staff of the MOA provide routine
extension services both inside and outside the BIMAS
program;
(e) Provincial Irrigation Service - This service operates
and maintains the irrigation system down to the turnout
on the secondary canal;
(f) Ministry of Interior - From the secondary turnout, the
irrigation system of tertiary and quarternary canals is
operated by the village chief who comes under the local
administrative service;
(g) All the above organizations are coordinated by the
district officer with irrigation committees, at district,
subdistrict and village levels.
Extension, Fertilizer, Pesticides and Credit
2.        All the above services are provided through BIM4AS.  This program,
working through existing organizations, covers only about 40% of Cirebon/
Rentang area but none of Sampean Baru during the wet season. In
the dry season, less than 30% of Cirebon/Rentang farmers are covered but



ANNEX 2
Page 2
no part of Sampean Baru. Such services for secondary crops by the BIMAS
program have only just begun. At full development, the BIMAS program would
be expanded to cover at least 85% of each of the project areas. The supply
of fertilizer under the BIMAS program is handled by two government agencies;
PN Pertani and PN Pusri, and a small number of private companies.  These
agencies supply the inputs to sub-agencies at district level, who, in turn,
distribute to BUUD or to registered Kiosk operators at the village unit level.
At present, the distribution of the inputs is not very efficient.  On occa-
sions, certain areas have an excess of supply and other areas suffer from
shortage and there is no quick way to redistribute the inputs.
3.        Credit is handled by the BRI through branch offices in each
district and a small office in most village units. There is no long-term
credit and most loans are for production or subsistence. The BRI is
working reasonably well but repayments are under 90%.
4.        Agricultural extension is in the process of being transferred to
the Agency for Education, Training and Extension (AETE) under the MOA. The
various extension units will be transferred to this new Agency by mid-1975.
BIMAS will, however, continue to operate as a separate Agency under the MOA
with close ties to the AETE.
5.         Currently, research for paddy and secondary crops is handled by
the M4OA through a number of agencies, such as the Central Research Institute
for Agriculture (CRIA) which operates at Bogor. MOA is being reorganized
and will have an Agency for Research and Development in 1975 which will take
over all research, including paddy which will be based at Sukamaridi. The
Bank is assisting in the establishment of this Agency and its research
centers. There are two experimental stations within the project area; one
at Kuningan for upland crops (soybeans and corn), and another at Plumbon for
lowland crops (rice and sugar cane). Both these stations lack staff equipment
and facilities, but they will be improved under the Bank's research project.
Seed
6.        Seed production for paddy is provided from the National Seed Cor-
poration at Sukamandi as well as from local farmers. Production of secondary
crop seeds is still very poorly developed, although some foundation seed is
produced at Kuniingan.  Seed production in the project areas will be improved
througlh training in the Agricultural Development Center.
Agricultural Support Program in the Project
7.        Thie objective of the agricultural services component of the project
would be to improve the production and income of more than 400,000 farm
families on about 190,000 ha of irrigated land in Cirebon, Rentang and Sam-
pean i3aru. In addition, as the project develops, the surrounding areas would
benefit from the program.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.        The main component of the proposed program would be the formation
of a project directorate under the Director General of Agriculture in MOA to
supervise the project and progressively to increase its influence over
other areas being rehabilitated in Indonesia. Extension field workers would
be increased from 185 to 500 in Cirebon/Rentang and from 2 to 14 in Sampean
Baru. A Bank mission visited Indonesia to report on agricultural extension
at the farm level and their report will be considered by MOA before submitting
their proposed agricultural development plan for the area.
9.        An agricultural project manager would be appointed for the project
who would be stationed in Cirebon.
10.       As described in Annex 3, an Agricultural Development Center, (ADC)
and 12 Rural Extension Centers in the Cirebon/Rentang area would be provided
under the project. The ADC would be used for training local agricultural
staff, collection of agricultural data, dissemination of applied research
and as the base for expansion of all BIMAS' activities. The Rural Extension
Centers would be used to expand the key farmer training program throughout
the project areas. Improved local seed production would also be developed
through the ADC. Sampean Baru agricultural development will be included
with the program for Pekalen-Sampean, the large area by which it is surrounded.
This plan is being prepared by MOA under Credit 289-IND.
Fertilizer
11.       At full development the total annual fertilizer requirements for
the project area would be 50,000 tons of UREA and TSP. Rodentcide require-
ments would be on the order of 100 tons. The present development programs
for fertilizer and insecticide in Indonesia would be able to meet these demands.
Farmers' Organizations
12.       The farmers' organizations at tertiary and quanternary levels,
such as "Dharma terta," would be expanded to cover the whole project area.
MOA and the Irrigation Service would work closely together to demonstrate
best agronomic and water management techniques in the Pilot on-farm projects,
as well as at local farmer level. Farmers would be trained in both paddy
and secondary crops and shown that, with good water management and full
quarternary development, multiple cropping could be undertaken.
Technical Assistance
13.       MOA staff would be assisted in preparing the agricultural develop-
ment program by a short-term individual consultant at Jakarta, as well as
by consultants at site (Annex 4). Training for MOA staff at all levels would
be included in the project (Annex 8).



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
The Project Works
1.        The location of the project areas is presented in Map 3627R1.
The Cirebon and Rentang Irrigation systems are shown in Map 10867, together
with future proposals for dry season irrigation of these areas. Sampean
Baru irrigation system is shown in Map 11197.
Cirebon Irrigation Rehabilitation
2.        The project area consists of 56 separate irrigation schemes (Table
1) classified as technical (64,000 ha) and semi-technical (25,000 ha) which
would be rehabilitated.
3.        The project would comprise:
(a) rehabilitation of 117 headworks and weirs;
(b) desilting and rehabilitation of some 450 km of primary and
secondary canals, along with repair of canal structures;
(c) construction of tertiary and quaternary canals, drains and
structures;
(d) flood protection embankments to three rivers;
(e)  new drainage canals (about 40 kn) with structures in 12
irrigation systems, as well as improvement of about 200 km
of existing drains;
(f) upgrading of about 300 km of rural access roads, and 55 km
of inspection roads;
(g) 20 pilot on-farm development and water management demonstration
projects covering a total of 2,000 ha; and
(h) construction of houses for operators, camp and office buildings
for PROSIDA, an Agriculture Development Center and six Rural
Extension Centers.
4.       lleadworks and Weirs.  In the 56 irrigation schemes there are 117
diversion structures. The first was built in 1878. Out of 91 masonry



ANNEX 3
Page 2
structures, 14 are in bad condition and nine are destroyed. The remainder
are in fair condition but need extensive repairs. Some of the stream beds
are silted and the weirs are buried. The intake and sluice gates have
deteriorated through lack of maintenance and are mostly inoperable. The
gearing mechanisms are old and cannot easily be operated manually. Replace-
ment of sluice and inlet gates with better gearing on over 100 structures
would be included in the project and sluiceways and silt excluders would be
constructed or repaired, so that entry of sediment during floods would be
minimized.
5.        Primary and Secondary Canals.  The total length of primary and
secondary canals under the 56 irrigation schemes is about 456 km with 1,300
canal structures. The canals are badly silted in the head reaches due to
non-operation of silt excluders, and canal banks have collapsed in many
places. Many structures on the canals require rehabilitation. In addition
to the rehabilitation of canals and structures, steps would be provided at
suitable locations to serve as access for domestic purposes and buffalo
wallow ponds would be constructed.
6.        Tertiary and Quaternary Canals.  There are about 2,000 tertiary
systems in the project area covering an average of 50 ha. The present ter-
tiary canal systems are inadequate and would be increased under the project.
Distribution boxes would be provided on tertiary and quaternary canals.
The first 50 m of tertiary canal would be constructed by GOI and the rest of
the tertiary and quaternary canals and drains would be constructed and main-
tained by the water users. PROSIDA would design these canals and drains
and construct the masonry structures and head gates. Earth work, however,
would be done by the farmers at subsidized cost. The estimate for tertiary
and quaternary systems is given in Table 2. Photo-mosaic maps at 1:5,000
scale with 0.5 m contour intervals, which are necessary for the design of
the systems, are presently being prepared.
7.        Drainage.  The main drainage problem in Cirebon area is in the
coastal plain along Cirebon-Tegal road and in Cipenas II irrigation area.
The drainage systems and appurtenant structures have deteriorated to the
extent that the original drains are often difficult to locate. The total area
for which new drainage (40 km) would be provided is about 10,000 ha. In
addition, about 200 km of existing drains would be improved.
8.        Flood Protection.  Three rivers, Cisanggarang, Cimanis and Cipanas
cause flooding in the Cirebon area due to poor embankments. Improvement of
embankments and some dredging is included in the project.
9.        Camps, Offices and Buildings.  Offices at Cirebon would be
constructed for PROSIDA. An Agricultural Development Center, complete with
equipment, would be built at Plombon, as well as six Rural Extension Centers
in strategic areas for farmer training (Annex 2). Houses would be provided
for the operators throughout the project area. The project would include
rehabilitation of about 35 existing operators houses and construction of
about 110 new houses.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
10.       Rural Access Roads and Inspection Roads.  The existing rural
road network is extensive and adequate, except for the quality of surfacing
and maintenance. About 305 km of rural roads would be upgraded under the
project. Most of these roads currently have only a light gravel and earth
base with no sealing coat. Roads included in the project would be provided
with a coarse stone and gravel base and an asphalt sealing coat. They would
generally be 4 m wide and be classified for 3-ton vehicles. The list of
roads and their length is given in Table 3, and shown on Map 10867. The cost
per km would be about Rp 2.0 million on the basis of similar works carried
out in Rentang Irrigation Area. A total of about 50 km of inspection roads
and paths for motorcycles would be built to facilitate 0 & M.
11.       Equipment and Communications.  Table 4 lists the major equipment
and vehicles included under the project.
12.       Pilot On-farm Development Projects.  20 pilot projects covering
about 100 ha each, consisting of complete tertiary and quaternary canals
and drains with attendant control boxes, would be constructed by GOI on
farmers' land to demonstrate the benefits of on-farm development. On each
pilot project, Provincial and PROSIDA irrigation staff and MOA would work
closely together with farmers to develop best water management and agronomic
techniques for both paddy and secondary crops.
Rentang Irrigation System
13.       Barrage.  The existing Rentang Barrage was built in 1916 for the
diversion of water from the Cimanuk river and has become obsolete due to
river accretion, non-operation if stop-logs and expensive 0 & M. It would,
therefore, be replaced under the project by a new barrage at a site about
600 m upstream from the old one. The new barrage would be a reinforeed
concrete structure with electrically operated radial gates. The barrage
would span 90m and its length would be 600m with rip-rap and gabions both
upstream and downstream. Silt excluding devices would be included on both
left and right bank intakes. These new intakes would be connected to the
existing primary canals by link canals about 700m long, which would also act
as silting basins.
14.       Tertiary Canals Systems.  Construction of the tertiary systems,
which were not financed under the previous Credit, would be carried out under
the project. Standards would be the same as those for the Cirebon project
(para 6).
15.       Agricultural Buildings.  Six Rural Extension Centers would be
built in strategic areas for farmer training (para 9 and Annex 2).



ANNiEX 3
Page  4
16.       Drainage.  In the wet season, about 30,000 ha of low-lying coastal
areas suffer from flooding. Existing drains in the flooded area (about 200 km),
which were not rehabilitated under Credit 127-IND, would be improved under
this project.  Aside from providing flood relief, the drains are also used
as a source of water supply. In the dry season, however, salt water from the
sea backs into the drains, and the people who live along these drains have to
travel up to 5 km to find fresh drinking water. Each year, many of the drain-
age outlets are blocked by drifting sand. Fishermen also often block the
drains in the dry season to retain water. These blocked drains and outlets
further aggravate flooding at the beginning of the wet season before the flow
pressure reopens them. Under the project about 60 km of collector drains would
be excavated parallel to the road, and drainage control gates would be
constructed at suitable intervals. These drains would become a supply of fresh
water in the dry season and, by concentrating flows through the gates, would
keep outlets open. The project would include new and improved secondary drains
to lead water to the collector drains. Work on Kumpal Kwista drainage area
has recently been started by GOI.
17.       Cimanuk Delta.  Drainage works in tihis delta have been started by
GOI. The project includes technical assistance for this work (Annex 4).
18.       Pilot On-farm Development Projects.  About 20 pilot projects of
approximately 100 ha each would be constructed to demonstrate tie benefits
of on-farm development, as described for Cirebon (para 12).
Sampean Baru
19.       Closure Dam, Weir and Intake.  A new earthfill closure dam would be
constructed across the Sampean river to divert water over the existing weir.
Tne weir and adjacent right bank intake would be remodelled. Tlhe weir's side-
walls would be raised to ensure that design floods could be safely passed and
new intake gates and hoists would be fitted. An access bridge would be built
over the weir to provide a crossing of the river. A "fuse plug" would be
built into the left bank of the dam to act as a spillway in event of extreme
flood conditions.
'0.       Canal System.  The existing 9 km of primary canal would be reiiabili-
tated and 35 km of new canal witlh the necessary flumes and syphons would be
constructel.  Some 20 secondary canals, totalling about 120 km, would be
constructed with suitable control structures.
21.       Drainage.  'Tkhere are a numb)er of deep ravines crossing thie primary
canal and passing through the service area which would provide natural
drainage.  No major drains would therefore be included.
22.       Tertiary Canals.  Provision would be made for thie construction of
tertiary and quaternary canals as in Cirebon/Rentang areas (para 6).



ANNEX 3
Page 5
23.       Roads.  A total of 100 km of road would be provided, of wiiich 45
km would be along the primary canal. Paths for inspection would be constructed
along secondary canals. Standards would be about the same as in Cirebon (para
10). A much higher proportion of roads is included in Sampean Baru than
Cirebon, since the former is a new area with few existing rural roads.
24.       Pilot On-farm Development Projects.  Two such projects on about 100
ha each would be constructed to demonstrate the value of the benefits of on-
farm development, as described for Cirebon (para 12).
25.       Pilot Pumping Project.  A 100 ha pilot pumping project would be
constructed on farmer's upland fields which are not more than 5 m above the
irrigation supply level. A diesel pump and pipeline would be provided,
together with a small canal system for growing high value crops. The pilot
scheme would include demonstration of best agronomic techniques and water
management for selected crops.
26.       Land Levelling.  Some 2,000 ha of land would be levelled using
PROSIDA equipment from the Pekalen-Sampean project and farmer's own labor.
The area affected lies to the east of the project and detailed investigations
of levelling requirements would be made by project consultants during project
design stages. Since no details were available at appraisal time, thie amount
of land level'ing was estimated by visual inspection only.
27.       Groundwater Investigation.  This part of the project would cover
the foreign exchange costs to complete the groundwater investigation in
Mediun/Solo area started under Credit 289-IND. The drilling equipment has
cost more than expected and its delivery has been delayed.  Further costs
have been incurred through extension of the consultant's contract. The
original cost estimates of US$1.7 million have now increased to US$2.4 million.
This project would finance the expected balance after 15 April 1975 of
US$500,000 in foreign exchange.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Details of Areas of Cirebon Irrigation Systems
Irrigation                                              Irrigated Area (ha)
Area                          Irrigation                    Semi-
(Region)               No.       Scheme        Technical   Technical    Total
----------- (ha)------------
I.  CILUTUNG                1    Manenteng          7,895           _        7,895
2    Ciberes Timur    2,976            -         2,976
3    Cijurai           4,492                     4 ,.492
4    Cihue               -                         524
Sub-Total I.   .15363                     15 .917
II.  PEN-PEN                 5    Cimanis Hilir    3,208             -         3,208
6    Ciwado            1,162           -         1,162
7    Situ Patok        2,156           -         2,156
8    Kanci Hilir         -            403          403
9    Kanci Udik            7          124          131
10    Ciawi               142           -           142
11    Suba Hilir          -            269          269
12    Jaga Hilir          -             33           33
13    Jaga Udik           151           -           151
14    Cimanis Udik      1,736          447        2,183
Sub-Total II.    8,562         1,276       9,838
III.  KUNINGAN               15    Darma                -            380         380
16    Citambleg            29          357          386
17    Ciherang            109          843          952
18    Cipager             160          376          536
19    Citamba             278          444          722
20    Cilengkrang         304        1,274        1,578
21    Citaal              -            341          341
22    Cisanggarung      1,717        1,409        3,126
23    Ciporang            541          309          850
24    Cisande             274          287          561
25    Ciolok              162          577          739
26    Ciberes Udik        123          548          671
27    Cibatu I            219           89          328
Sub-Total III.   3,936        7.234       11,170



ANNEX 3
Table 1
Page 2
Irrigation                                             Irrizated Area (ha)
Area                        Irrigation                      Semi-
(Rteg;ion)           No.         Scheme       Technical      Technical    Total
IU. PLIJMBON               28     Suba Udik           -              115           115
29     Cipager Udik         46         1,298         1,339
30     Soka Udik           504           187           691
31     Cipager Hilir    2,810            -           2,810
32     Sokarajadana      1,249           239        1,488
33     Ciparlgi          1,096            43         1,139
34     Siweringin          839           -             839
35     Jamblang Kanan   1,196             -          1,196
36     Jamblang Kini    1,678            -           1,678
37     Jamblang Udik       509           617         1,126
38     Wlahar            1,365           -           1,365
39     Ciwaringing Hilir5,429            -           5,429
4o     Cikemangi         2,269           710         2,979
41     Ciwaringin Udik    380             257          637
Sub-Total IV.   19,370          3.461        22,831
V. MAJALENGKA-SUMEDANG  42       Cihe rang Hilir     119            748          867
43     Cikeruh Hilir    3,456            598         4,s54
44     Ciawi Hilir         793            -            793
45     Cideres Hilir    1,314            412         1,726
46     Ciherang Udik       504            754        1,258
4i7    Cikeruh Udik        494             19          513
48     Ciawi Udik           10             78           88
49     Cideres Udik        148            257         I405
50     Cilutung Udik       -           1,184         1,184
51     Cilutung Timur   3,917             -          39917
52     Cilutung Barat  5,914             -           5,914
53     Setu-Setu           -             100           100
54     Ujung Jaya          -1.592                    1.,592
Sub-Total V.    16,669          5.742        22,411
VI. INDRAMAYU BARPAT       55     Cipanas I           -            2,328        2,328
56     Cipanas II          -           4.°?20        4,020
Sub-'Total VI.      -           6348          6 .48
TOTAL                   63_,00        2§615         88,515



ANNEX 3
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Tertiary Canal Systems - Cost Estimates per ha
Under Subsidized Systems
Item            Description          Quantitv    Unit      Rate        mount
1  Photomosaic 1:5,000 scale             1       ha       750          750
2   Contour Mapping 0.3 m interval       1       ha     1,500        1,500
3   Survey for tertiary & quarter-
nary canals & structures           1       ha       900          900
h   Tertiary & sub-tertiary canal                 3
excavation 1/                   12.5      m         100        1,250
5   Quaternary canal excavation 1/    10         m3       100        1,000
6   Tertiary drain excavatimnl/         28       m3       100        2,800
7   Quatermary drain excavation ±/     16        m3       100        1,600
8   Tertiary Box .02 box/ha          0.02       box   150,000        3,000
9   Subtertiary Box .03 box/ha       0.03      box    75,000         2,250
10  Quaternary Box .06 box/ha         0.06      box    40,000         2,400
11   Other structures .02/ha          0.02       unit   74,000        1,500
12   Farm Roads earthwork 1/            40        m3       100         4,000
13   Land Acquisition 2/              L.S.                            2,000
Rounding                                                            50
TOTAL 3/                                           25.000
1/ Actual market rate for excavation is about Rps 20m3, but under project farmers
would only be paid Rp lOOm3, the balance being their contribution towards the
cost of these works.
2/ Amount of acquisition wherever required.
3/ Cost per ha included in Cirebon, Rentang and Sampean Baru components.



ANNEX 3
Table 3
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
CIREBON IRRIGATION SYSTESS
List of Rural Roads for Rehabilitation under the project
(Shown on Map 10867)
Progran
Description                 Length       Year of Construction
1  Losarang - Rajasinga               11               1976-77
2.  Rajasinga - Kroya                 12
3. Kroya - Kandanghaur                 16
4. Conggeang - Ujungjaya               12.5
5.  Conggeang - Legok                   9.5             1977-78
6.  Cijelog - Ujung Jaya                8.5
7.  Jatiwangi - Ligung                11
8.  Rajagalub - Prapatan              12
9.  Bongas - Ligung                   11
10.  Leuwimunding - Palasah              6.2
11.  Prapatan- Budar                     1.5
12.  Rajagaluh - Bobos                   7
13.  Gebang - Waled                     11               1978-79
14. Plajangan - Cileduk                  7.5
15.  Cileduk - Losari                   12
16.  Cileduk - Sindang Laut             17
17.  Cipasung - Subang                  2t
18.  Kadipaten - Jatitujuh              18               1979-80
19.  Jatitujuh - Sumber                  8
20.  Cidahu - G. Karang                  3
21.  Garawangi - Balong                  3
22. Ciwaru - Subang                    18
23
23. Kali Tanjung - Sumber               7.5              1980-81
24. Sumber - Mandirancan                6
25.  SindangJawa - Mandirancan          6
26.  Mundu - Setupatok                   5
27.  Sindang Laut - Ciawi Gajah        15
28.  Putat - Koreak                     503
29. Sindang Laut - Pengarengan           5.2
30.  Kadugede - Ciniru                 11
Total                      304.7
Note: 304.7 km (l Rp 2.00 x 106/kmn  Rp 609.4 x 106 (nid-19714 price, which has
been adjusted in the main
estimates)



ANNEX 3
Table 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Equipment List
Item                      Description                  Quantity   Rate    Amount
Cirebon Irrigation Systems                          --
Construction Equipment
I        Survey Drawing office and Laboratory
equipment                                    LS                54,000
II        Construction Staff Transport
Stations wagons                              4        8,000    32,000
4 W.D.Vehicles                                8       6,000    48,ooo
Executive vehicles                           2        44,ooo    8,000
Motorcycles                                  30         800    24,ooo
III         O&M Equipment
Air compressors and tools                     2      14,000    28,000
Grader (light)                               1       30,000    30,000
Rollers 6-8 tons                             2       20,000    40,000
Front and loader                             I       40,000    4O0,000
Dumptrucks                                   7        8,000    56,000
Hydraulic excavator v cu.yds.                1       40,000    40,000
Welding sets - electric                       2      10,000    20,000
Welding sets - gas                            2         500     1,000
Generators 50 KW                             4       10,000    40,000
Hydrological equipment                       LS      85,000    85,000
Miscellaneous small tools                    LS      40,000    40,000
1/ Required for project startup and would be procured under the consultant's
contract.



ANNEX 3
Table 4
Page 2
Equipment List
Item                     Description             Quantity       Rate      Amount
IV        0 & M Staff transport                                       us$-------
Station wagon                             1         8,000      8,000
4 W.D.Vehicles                           10         6,000    60,000
Motorcycles                              35           800    28,000
Bicycles                                138            60      8,280
V        Tertiary Area - Pilot Projects
Station wagon                             1         8,000      8,000
4 W.D.Vehicles                            1         6,000      6,000
Motorcycles                               8           800      6,1400
Bicycles                                  2            60        120
Totals I to V                              710.800



ANNEX 3
Table 4
Equipment List                     Page 3
Agricultural Operations
Description                            Quantity    Rate    Amount
--US$ ------
Cirebon and Rentang Irrigation Systems--
Agricultural Developuwnt Center
Station wagons                                         2       8,joo   16,000
4 W.D. vehicles                                       26       6,000  156,000
Microbus                                               1      12,000   12,000
Motorcycles                                           14         800   11,200
Bicycles                                              12          60       720
Agricultural District Service
4 W.C. Vehicles                                        4       6,000   24,000
Motorcycles                                          350         800  280,000
Bicycles                                             150          60    9,000
Rural Agricultural Extension Centers
Motorcycles                                           36         800   28,800
Bicycles                                              12          60       720
Sub-total                      537,540
Equipment & Furnishing of Centers
Agriculture Development Center                       L.S.              350,000
Agriculture District Service                         L.S.              112,000
Rural Extension Centers                              L.S.              220,000
Village units equipment                              100       1,400  140,000
Sub-total                      822,000
Total                        1,359,540
Rounded                      1.36 million



ANNEX 3
Table 5
INDOWNESI
IRRIGATION PROJECr VI
RENTANG IRRIGATION SXSTM
List of Drainage Schemes
Area       Cost of
Schemes                         Benefitted    Scheme
(ia)      (IRp M)-
1. IEipml Kvista Drainage                   4,700        370      Work on this is
recently started.
2. Ciwaringin Drainage                      3,9400       330
3. Area West of Cimanrk River              19,000        460
i. Prawirakepolo Drainge                    2,000        285
5. Gebang-Sawit Drairago                    1,000        140
6.  Wili Kamal-aLi Boboa Drainage           1,800         65
7. Kali Singranla-Lai Bobos Drainge         1,000        16o
Total                     32,900      1J810 Million BP
= 4.37 MillioIn U$-
1/ Increased to early 1975 price in main estimate (Annex 6) to Us$4.8 million.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONES IA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Consulting Services and Technical Assistance
Consulting Services
Cirebon and Rentang
1.        Scope of Services.  PROSIDA would engage the services of a consult-
ing firm with both engineering and agricultural expertise to supervise, design
and construct all the Cirebon systems and Rentang barrage, as well as to
assist in the agricultural development plan for the area.
2.        PROSIDA and MOA would assign a number of counterpart professional
and technical staff to work with the consultant's staff, and the consultants
would be required to provide guidance and on-the-job training to such staff.
The foreign consulting firm would be required to associate itself with an
Indonesian engineering consulting firm.
3.        It is expected that the consulting services would be required
from April 30, 1975.  Estimated man-months would be about 200 foreign and
300 Indonesian, totalling 500 man-months for Cirebon and Rentang. 1,
4.        Responsibility of the Consultants.  The consultants would perform
the following functions:
(a) Review existing data available and 1973 feasibility study;
(b) formulate the final project concept;
(c)  prepare scope of work, engineering and construction schedules
for completing all necessary works in a logical sequence in
each irrigation system;
(d)  prepare plans, designs, cost estimates, specifications, tender
and contract documents, (working with PIOSIDA and their
Indonesian associates), for local competitive bidding for
all civil works in Cirebon Irrigation Systems and foi ICB
for Rentang Barrage;
1/   Used for estimating purposes and may be ciianged at implementation.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(e) assist in evaluation of bids and recommendations for
award of contracts;
(f) assist in construction supervision of all civil works;
(g) prepare an C&M manual for Cirebon;
(h) assist PROSIDA and MOA to expand the BIMAS program in the
project areas;
(i) assist the local agriculture authorities in agricultural
production planning, extension methods and irrigation
field agronomy;
(j) assist in establishing the Agricultural Development Center
and the Rural Extension Centers;
(k) assist PROSIDA and MOA to establish the on-farm demonstra-
tion prosects in which crop water requirements would be
evaluated; and
(1) provide on-the-job training for their counterpart staff.
5.        ReportJng.  The consultants would prepare an inception report
within 3 months of commencing work, which would outline their project plans.
They would also prepare quarterly reports for PROSIDA and MOA on progress
and problems and, on completion of the project, prepare a final report
which would evaluate lessons learned for use in future projects.
6.        The consultants would supply their own vehicles and would procure
survey and drawing office equipment, laboratory and hydrological equipment
(as listed in Annex 3) for the project under the terms of their contract.
Rentang Drainage, Sampean Baru Works and Sadang North
7.        Preliminary designs of the proposed Rentang drainage works were
prepared by NEDECO under Credit 220-IND. The NEDECO drainage expert, whose
services would be extended, would assist PROSIDA in the preparation of final
designs for these works. Similarly, these consultants presently employed
on Credit 220-IND, which includes Sadang, would be used to prepare detailed
designs for Sadang North (6,500 ha). An interim report would be prepared
on the best technical solution for this small irrigation distribution system
and submitted to PROSIDA and the Bank before commencing final design.
8.        The existing consultant contract (Harza) for the Pekalen-Sampean
works in progress under Credit 289-IND, would be extended for design and
construction supervision of Sampean Baru irrigation system. Harza would
be required to associate with an Indonesian engineering firm. The estimated
man-months would be about 42 foreign and 300 Indonesian totalling 342 man-
months. GOI would be at liberty to clhoose other consultants for Sampean Baru
if they so desifed.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Feasibility Studies
9.        Madiun Irrigation Systems (130,000 ha).  A consulting firm would
be engaged to carry out feasibility studies for the rehabilitation of the
Madiun irrigation systems, consisting of many small systems receiving
water from sources around the mountains near the city of Madiun (Map 3627R1).
These systems are the last large block of irrigation systems which require
rehabilitation in Indonesia. In addition to the rehabilitation studies,
the consultants would be required to examine the feasibility of three
possible irrigation storage dam sites, and one multi-purpose dam site
which could provide dry season irrigation for part of the Madiun systems.
These dams were identified by the groundwater consultants (ELC/Nippon Koei)
during their preliminary investigation in the area.
10.       The consultants responsibilities would include:
Phase I
(a)  identification of the scope of the work for rehabilitation
and the preparation of construction estimates for the
engineering work;
(b)  identification of the existing crops grown in the area,
and evaluating present yields and anticipated yields after
full development of the proposed project;
(c)  conducting agro-economic surveys in conjunction with SAE,
which would indicate current employment levels and incomes
from both farms and off-farms. These studies would pay
particular attention to identifying size of farms, numbers
of land-owners, sharecroppers and landless laborers.
Indications of present and projected incomes would be
included;
(d)  preparing cost estimates to establish the technical and
economic feasibility of the darns wihicih are located at
Sangiran, Pondok, Ngrejeng and Bendo; and
Phase II
(e) continue with detailed planning, design and contract
documents as detailed for the consultants in para 4(d) to
(1) and paras 5 and 6 on pages 1 and 2 of this Annex.
11.       The consultant's initial report would follow the FAO Guidelines of
December 1970. It is estimated that about 450 man-months would be required
for these studies, and the consulting firm would be expected to associated
itself with a local consulting firm (about 200 man-months of foreign consul-
tants and 250 man-months of local consultants).



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Cirebon Feeder Canal
12.       The consultants (NEDECO/SMEC) who prepared the feasibility studies
for Cirebon rehabilitation and the Jatigede Dam identified the approximate
alignment of a feeder canal to provide dry season irrigation for about
30,000 ha in the Cirebon area. This canal would be supplied from an
offtake and weir located about 5 km downstream of the proposed Jatigede
Dam (Map 10867). Consultants would be engaged to prepare a feasibility
study showing the technical and economic viability of this project. About
250 1/ man-months of consulting time would be required for the study
made up of 100 man-months of foreign consultants and 150 man-months of local
consultants' time. The possibility of engaging an expatriate consulting firm
for this work or having the report prepared by the consultants on the Jatigede
Dam (being financed by an Australian grant) would be discussed after the
project is effective. The scope of work could be expanded to include a
feeder canal from the Cisanggarang River also identified by the previous
consultants.
Technical Assistance
Rentang Drainage and River Specialists
13.       In the delta of the Cimanuk river in the Rentang area the old
river channels have silted up and closed. The coast has accreted and man-
made flood relief channels have been constructed over the last 50 years.
These channels now suffer from siltation and unstable levees. The DGWRD
has staff working on these problems, but they lack the necessary experience
to devise corrective measures, which are very complex. Individual expatriate
specialists with delta experience would be engaged under the project to
assist the DGWRD. They would consist of a drainage expert and a river
engineer, botlh having long experience in delta problems involving siltation
of channels, unstable levees and embankments, dredging of channels and
coastal accretion. These experts would visit Indonesia for about 6 weeks,
initially, to prepare a plan of operations for future tests and action and,
thereafter, make periodic visits of inspection as required by DGWRD to
examine the effects of their recommendations and make further plans of
operations. A total of 12 man-months for these experts would be provided.
14.       The specialist's terms of reference would cover the following
activities:
(a) review all information available would be reviewed and a
plan of operations prepared covering necessary tests to
be carried out and initial action to be taken;
1/   Used for estimating, may be adjusted by GOI.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
(b) recommend measures for stabilizing slopes, combating
sedimentation, stopping erosion and other steps necessary to
safeguard the agricultural land and town of Indramayu;
(c) examine the practicality and economy of reopening Kali
Rambatan to much greater flows and preventing overtopping of
its levees; and evaluate the need for the proposed new
channel via Kamal River;
(d)  examine the practicability and economy of setting up a
continuous dredging program to offset the effects of delta
formation and coastal accretion; and
(e) recommend outline designs for the best method of draining
this area of the Rentang system.
Soil Conservation Specialist
15.       The upper reaches of the Cimanuk river and its tributaries suffer
from serious soil erosion and constant silting which directly affect the
Cirebon and Rentang project areas and would, in future, affect the Jatigede
Dam. GOI has requested technical assistance in carrying out a soil
conservation program within the Cimanuk catchment. The program would be
carried out by MOA, in close cooperation with PROSIDA. An individual soil
conservation specialist would be provided under the project for a total
of 12 man-months based on a number of short term visits to advise on measures
to be taken and follow up visits as required by MOA. He would report to
the Directorate of Forests, and work closely with PROSIDA in advising them
on the program, and would liaise with local agencies.
16.       His terms of reference would cover the following specific
activities:
(a) advise the staff of MOA on their program of stream
stabilization, vegetation and forestry belts, new
agricultural techniques, crops and terracing;
(b) coordinate MOA's activities with those of PROSIDA;
(c) assist with the establishment of a Cimanuk Catchment Board;
and
(d) assist GOI in the preparation of an inventory of soil conser-
vation requirements in Java and ultimate staff needs for
dealing with these problems.
Agricultural Planning Consultant
17.       An agricultural development program would be prepared for the
project areas within 6 months of Loan signing. While implementation of



hNNEX 4
Page 6
the program itself would be assisted by the project consultants, MOA has
requested assistance in preparation of the development plan and subsequent
review of actual implementation. An individual agricultural planning and
management expert would therefore be provided under the project for a total
of 12 man-months. He would report to the MOA and would help the Director
General in preparing the development plan. He would visit Indonesia periodic-
ally within the first 6 months of the project for periods of about one
month each and thereafter as required by MOA, to advise on program implemen-
tation.
18.       His terms of reference would cover the following activities:
(a) assist MOA staff to prepare a detailed plan of operation for
agricultural development in the project area and review
project agricultural organization and operation and management
procedures; and
(b) liaise with the existing agricultural advisor on Credit 289-IND,
review the work of the consultants in Cirebon and assist MOA,
in updating statistical data covering cropping patterns, yields,
production, BIMAS performance, and farmer population and income.
PROSIDA Management Adviser
19.       Under Credit 220-IND PROSIDA was provided with three individual
experts for O&M, construction and contract activities, and financial matters
respectively. These experts have completed their assignment, except for
the O&M expert who will complete his term in June 1975. GOI has requested
that a general management advisor with overall irrigation and management
experience be provided to advise the new PROSIDA General Manager on all
aspects of PROSIDA operations and all IDA affected rehabilitation projects.
36 man-months have been included for this advisor.
Audio-Visual Training
20.       A program of audio-visual training has recently been prepared by
consultants for training foremen and working staff on road maintenance.
This form of training consists of a series of color-slides showing in great
detail all the activities required by foremen and laborers in any particular
function. The slides are coordinated with a tape recorder program describing
the activities in the local language. The DGWRD has requested that similar
courses of training be prepared for O&M activities. The project therefore
includes 30 man-months of specialized consultant time to advise on the
preparation of about 20 courses in O&M activities. The photographs and
courses would be prepared in the Surabaya Training Institute under the Chief
of Irrigation in East Java. GOI has requested that the consultants be the
same (Jorgensen USA) as those who prepared similar courses for roadwork since
they have the special knowledge of this type of training, as well as Indone-
sian experience.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
Project Benefit Monitoring Specialist
21.       In order to provide GOI and the Bank with basic data on the
current and future situation regarding crop yields, farm incomes, off-farm
incomes, household expenditures, size distribution of farms, numbers of
landlords, sharecroppers and landless laborers and other related socio-
economic data, monitoring surveys would be included in the project. GOI
has agreed that the agro-economic surveys would also cover the five irrigation
projects already financed by the Bank Group.
22.       The surveys would be conducted by MOA and, since experience of
other such surveys indicate that the type of questionnaire, intensity of
study, cost and the organization or individuals responsible are vital factors
affecting the results of such surveys, an individual specialist would be
provided under the project to advise MOA on these questions. Specifically,
he would visit Indonesia for about six weeks twice in the first six months
of project implementation to:
(a) advise on the intensity of the surveys;
(b) assist in preparation of questionnaires for both individuals
and village heads;
(c) advise on data processing methods and if necessary arrange
computer processing;
(d) help prepare cost estimates for annual surveys covering a
ten year period; and
(e) join discussion between GOI and the Bank regarding survey
implementation.
Following implementation of the first survey, the specialist would assist
in data processing and analyzing and, thereafter, would pay periodic visits
to Indonesia at the annual survey time to monitor progress and check results.
A total of 12 man-months would be included in the project for this advisor.



ANNEX 5
Page  1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Water Supply and Requirements
Cirebon Irrigation Systems
1.        Records for the past 60 years snIow that the rainfall during tlhe wet
season is adequate for the main paddy crop (81,500 iia), and for sugar cane
(7,000 ha) as well as for 16,000 ha of paddy, 7,000 ha of sugar cane and
about 15,000 ha of secondary crops suchi as maize, pulses, roots and tubers
in the dry season.
2.        Tne area is mostly served by various rivers, streams and springs
originating from Gunong Ciremai (an active volcano). A considerable amount
of water comes from springs around Gunong Ciremai. There is little recorded
data of river flows and determining the discharges on any empirical basis
would not serve a useful purpose since there are so many sources. Consider-
ing the performance of different systems in the past, water from existing
sources is considered adequate for both wet and dry season irrigation and
after rehabilitation, due to greater distribution efficiency, the dry season
area may be slightly increased from 40% to 45%.
Sampean Baru Irrigation System
3.        Records of Sampean river flows at Situbondo are available for the
periods from 1913 to 1932 and 1960 to date. The flow records are derived
from the diversions in the catchment area and spills over tne Sampean
Weir near Situbondo. Daily discharges have been computed from rainfall data
and nydrographic comparison.  The computed flows are about 15% less tnan
actual flows recorded, and the former have been adopted as a factor of
safety.
4.        The maximum, minimum and average monthly and annual discnarges
are given in Table 1, which should be read in conjunction with Cnart 8966.
To determine flows available for diversion at Sampean Baru damsite, the
Situbondo site records ihave been transposed and adjustment made for existing
irrigation systems. About 15,000 ha are presently irrigated upstream of
tlne proposed Sampean Baru diversion weir with water from the Sampean river
watershied. About 600 ha are irrigated between Sampean Baru Dam and Sampean
Weir. The irrigated area downstream of proposed Sampean Weir is 11,000 ha.
These irrigation systems have been given priority over the new Sampean Baru
Irrigation System in the water requirement calculations. Overall distribution
efficiencies ihave been assumed to average 55%.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
5.        The flows at Sampean Baru are assumed to be 62Z of the flows at
Situbondo site in proportion to the catchiment areas.  Tnis estimate is con-
servative as the rainfall at the higiher elevations is greater and consequently
the runoff at Sampean Baru site would ue more. After adjusting for diversions
above Sampean Baru and requirements of water to be bypassed for diversion at
Sampean Weir, monthly water supply available for diversion at Sampean Baru
site nas been determined. These figures are given in Table 1. Small snortages
between monthly divertable supplies and actual daily irrigation needs would
be provided by the reservoir and storage capacity of the canal system. To
reduce further the peak demands, the irrigation deliveries for paddy would
be on a rotational basis at ten day intervals.
6.        Consumptive use of water.  ŽMontnly consumptive use values niave been
computed using modified Blaney-Criddle method.  Chart 8966 sinows the computa-
tions for rice and secondary crops.  It has been assumed tnat improved niign
yielding rice varieties of 135 days period would be used. To cover the worst
case for water requirements, the whole area was assumed to be planted with
paddy in the wet season, and two secondary crops of 90 days would be planted
in the dry season. Tne water demands for the proposed service area of 9,800
ha can be met from the estimated available divertable water from Sampean Baru.
Rentang Irrigation System
7.        The Rentang area is supplied from the Cimanuk tiver.  Water supply
and demand was reviewed under Credit 127-IND and there is sufficient water
for 100% of the area under paddy in the wet season and about 30% in the dry
season in normal years (four out of five).



INDONESIA
SAMPEAN BARU IRRIGATION SYSTEM
Monthly Dia!chages - Sgopan River at Sampean Weir-
and Average MonthlY Divert#ble Water at Saumean Barun
JAN     FEB     MAR    APR    MAY    JUN    JUL    AUG    SEP    OCT   .OV    DEC
YEAR 1913-1932
Maximum                       56.4    67.0   80.0   76.4   55.5   51.5   41.1   24.2   21.7   27.5   32.6   45.3
Minimum                       23.7    31.3   31.8   24.4   20.1   20.1   19.6   16.2   14.1   13.3   15.1   17.9
Average2/                     36.2   52.9    49.9   40.1   35.4   29.7   25.0   20.1   18.2   18.6   20.8   27.2
YEAR 1960-1972
Maximum                      102.1   121.1   83.2   66.4   53.1   37.9   29.5   18.9   17.0   37.3   30.9   56.4
Mininmm                       20.9    20.6   21.4   20.4   15.7   14.6   10.2    9.5    9.3    7.9    8.6   18.7
Average2/                     52.2    55.5   49.3   37.7   26.4   19.3   15.2   12.8   12.7   15.9   18.4   35.1
Average Divertable Water at
Sampean Baru Dam Site         22.4    29.2   26.6   20.0   15.4   10.6    7.2    5.6    4.0    6.8    9.8   14.7
Diversion Requirements at
Sampean Baru Dam Site as
per Chart 8966                 7.24    8.26  10.54   5.71   0.96   7.27   7.351/ 3.62   2.10   2.92   1.95   4.65            ::
1/  Small shortage during this month can be met from storage water at the dam.
2/ At least 2 years out of 10.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Basis for Cost Estimates
1.        Consultants prepared the estimates for Cirebon and Sampean Baru
in mid-1973 and, at the same time, PROSIDA prepared the estimates for the
Rentang barrage and drainage works. These estimates were based on actual
costs of similar work in adjacent areas.
2.        During the appraisal mission in June 1974, the estimates were
reviewed, adjusted and then updated to mid-1974 prices, by using multiplier
factors based on actual cost increases for various materials and labor
activities. The factors were 1.65 for major works involving reinforced
concrete and imported materials, and 1.45 for works involving mostly labor.
3.        After return of the appraisal mission, the cost estimates were
updated to beginning 1975 prices by adding a further 10% to each item. At
the same time, the foreign currency element was reviewed and adjusted.
4.        In the light of experience gained from the current rehabilitation
projects, the physical contingencies for rehabilitation civil works were
raised to 25%.
5.        Since Rentang and Sampean Baru estimates were based on preliminary
designs and only limited site investigation, 20% was used for physical contin-
gencies on major civil works.
6.        Physic(al contingencies of 10% for equipment, training and consul-
tants, etc., were used, since these items are not likely to be much affected
by unforeseen circumstances.
7.        For expected price increases on civil and other related works
in 1975 a 15% increase was assumed, and for each year thereafter, 12%.
For equipment, vehicles and communications, the expected price increase
percentage was assumed as 11% in 1975 and 7.5% thereafter (Table 6). These
percentages are based on the Bank Guidelines of March 29, 1974 and, on the
advice of the country economist, the same percentage was used for both
foreign and local costs.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Cost Estimate Tables
Table 1   Cirebon Irrigation Systems
Table 2   Rentang Irrigation System
Table 3   Sampean Baru Irrigation System
Table 4   Miscellaneous Services
- Feasibility studies, training and technical assistance
Table 5   Details of Cost Estimates for Miscellaneous Services
Table 6   Expected Price Increases
Table 7   Calculations for Schedule I of Loan Documents
Table 8   Estimate for Consulting Services for Cirebon, Rentang and
Sampean Baru



ANNEX 6
Table 1
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Cirebon Irrigation Systems
Cost Estimates
% of
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
(Rp MiUllonT  -                       ion
Civil Works
Headworks & weirs                 320      910    1,230    o.8      2.2     3.0        70
Primary & secondary canals -      860   1,330    2,190    2.1       3.2     5-3        60
structures
Primary & secondary canals -   1,130       280    1,410    2.7      0.7     3.4        20
earthwork
Primary & secondary canals -   1,460       360    1,820    3.5      0.9      4.4       20
bank protection
Tertiary canal systems &        1,970      490    2,460    4.7      1.2     5.9        20
structures
Drainage system improvement       290       70      360    0.7      0.2     0.9        20
Flood embankments                 160      250      410    0.4      0.6      1.0       60
Camps, offices & buildings        140       40      180    0.3      0.1      0.4       20
Inspection roads & culverts        25       25       50    0.1       -       0.1       50
Rural access roads network        280      410      690    0.7      1.0      1.7       60
Pilot areas - water manage-       140       40      180    0-3      0.1      o.4       20
ment & on-farm develop-
ment
Sub-Total             6,775   4,205   10,980   16.3    10.2    26.5          40
PROSIDA
Equipment & vehicles for          -        320      320      -       .8      0.8      100
construction & 0 & M
Communications                    135      135      270    0.3      0.3      o.6       50
Training                          -         50       50      -      0.1      0.1      100
Cost of O & M during con-         580      150      730    1.5      0.3      1.8       20
struction 1/
Administration t overhead       1,275      145    1,420    3-1      0.3      3.4       10
Sub-Total             1,990     800    2,790    4.9       1.8     6.7        28
1/ Incremental cost



ANNEX 6
Tabe T
Page 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Cirebon Irrigation Systems
Cost Estimates (Continued)
% of
Foreign
Local   Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
-----(Rp Million)---            ST ; ili on ____
Agriculture Support Program
Agriculture development        430      110      540   1.0       .3     1.3        20
center
Rural extension centers        100       30      130    .3       .1       .4       20
Land acquisition                90     -          90    .2       -       .2
Equipment, vehicles &          -       320       320    -        .8       .8      100
communications
Operation during con-          670      120      790   1.6       .3      1.9       15
struction
Training                        35       55       90    .1       .1       .2       60
Technical assistance            15      125      140    -        .3       .3       90
Sub-Total          1,340     760    2,100   3.2      1.9      5.1       :35
Consulting services            160      370      530    .4      1.0     1.4       '70
Base Cost         10,265   6,135   16,400  24.8    14.9    39.7         35
Contingencies
Physical contingencies       2,195   1,200    3,395   5.3       2.9      8.2       35
Expected price increases    7)145   3,860   11,005  17.3        9.3    26.6        35
Total Project Cost  19,605  11,195   30,800  47.4    27.1    74.5           35



INDONESIA                           ANNEX 6
Table 2
IRRIGATION PROJECT VT
Rentang Irrigation System
Cost Estimates
X of
Foreign
Local   Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
Civil Works
Access Road Works               295      70       365    0.7      0.2      0.9       20
Barrage, intakes &            2,565   2,900    5,465    6.2       7.0    13.2        60
link canals
Rest house & other               35      10        45    0.1       -       0.1       20
buildings
100 K.V. substation              70     160       230    0.2      0.4     0.6        70
& electrical lines
Tertiary canal systems        2,o40     510    2,550    4.9       1.2     6.1        20
& structures
Coastal area drainage         1,405     600    2,0o5    3.4       1.4     4.8        30
works
Pilot areas - on-farm           140      40       180    0.3      0.1     0.4        20
development
Sub-Total          6,550   4,290   10,840   15.8    10.3    26.1          40
PROSSIDk
Communications                   20      50        70    0.1      0.1     0.2        70
Administration &                800      90       890    2.0      0.2     2.2        10
overhead
Sub-Total            820     140       960    2.1      0.3      2.4       1'
Agriculture Support
Program
Rural axtension Centers         110      30       140    0.3      0.1     0.4        2C
Land acquisition                50      -          50    0.1       -      0.1
Enuipment, vehicles &          -        330      330      -      o.8      o.8       100
communications
Operations during con-          680     120       8()    1.5      0.4     1.9        15
struction
Training                         30      50        80    0.1      0.1     0.2        6c
Technical assistance             15     125       14(    0.0     0.3      0.3       100
Sub-Total            885     655    1,54.0    2.0      1.7      3.7       43
Consulting services              20      90       110    0.1      0.2     0.3        80
Base Cost          8,275   5,175   13,450   20.0    12.5    32.5          40
Contingencies
Physical contingencies       1,690   1,04(    2,730    4.1        2.5     6.6        4(
Expected price increases    3,570   2,350    5,920    8.6         5.8    14.4        4(
Grend Total       13,535   8,565   22,100   32.7    20.8    53.5          4X)



ANNEX 6
Table 3
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Sampean Baru Irrigation System
Cost Estimates
% of
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
-----(Rp MillionT- ---            Millon)--
Civil Works
Weir & intake structure       135     140      275    0.4       0.3    0.7       50
Earth dam & emergency        705      705    1,410    1.7      1.7    3.4        50
spillway
Primary & secondary canal    980      980    1,960    2.4      2.3    4.7        5o
canal structures
Primary & secondary          470      120      590    1.1      0.3    1.4        20
canals earthwork
Tertiary canal systems       220       55      275    o.5      0.2    0.7        20
& structures
Drainage system               45      -         45    0.1        -     0.1       -
improvement
Inspection roads,            205      205      410    0.5       0.5    1.0       50
access roads
Surveys & borings              70      65      135    0.2       0.1    0.3       50
Upland irrigation pilot        20      25       45     -        0.1    0.1       50
project
Land levelling               320      135      455    0.8       0.3    1.1       30
Sub-Total        3,170   2,430    5,600    7.7       5.8   13.5        44
PROSIDA
Houses i communications       115     115      230    0.3       0.3    o.6       50
Land acquisition               70     -         70    0.2        -     0.2       -
0 & M during con-             35       10       45    o.1        -     0.1       20
struction
Administration & over-        575      65      640    1.4       0.1    1.5       10
head
Sub-Total          795      190      985    2.0      0.4    2.4        25
Consulting services           135     140      275    0.3       0.3    o.6       50
Base Cost        4,1(00   2,760   6,386o   ioo      6.5   16.5        4°
Cont,ingencies
Physical contingencies        105     415    1,12\)    1.7      1.0    2.7       4
Expected price :icrease.s  1,930   1 290      , 22    4.7       3.1    2.0(      4o
Grand T'otal     6,735   4,465   11,200   16.4      10.6  27.0         40



ANNEX 6
Table 4
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Miscellaneous Services
Cost Estimates
% of
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Fore'   Total   Exchange
---_(Rp Million)-        ----(U S Mil ion)----
Feasibility studies of          300      950   1, 250    .7    2.3      3.0        80
future projects
Soil erosion program            205      45      250     .5      .1      .6        20
Balance of groundwater          --       210     210     --      .5       .5      1013
investigation
Training & study tours           40      190     230     .1      .5       .6       90
Technical assistance            --       100     100     --      .2       .2      100
Monitoring systems for           125     125     250     .3      .3      .6        50
rehabilitation projects
Mapping                          125    415      54o     .3    1.0       1.3       80
Base Cost             795   2,035   2,830    1.9      4.9     6.8       7()
Physical contingencies          200      200     400     .5      .5     1.o       50
Expected price increases        455     455      910    1.1     1.1     2.2       5o
Total for services  1,450   2,690   4,140    3.5    6.5    10.0         7()



ANNEx 6
Table 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Details of Cost Estimates for Miscellaneous Services
Rate    Local   Foreign    Total
US$     --        US$'000---------
Feasibility Studies for Future Irrigation
Projects
Madiun Rehabilitation and Storage Dams            L.S.      292    1,428       1,720
Cirebon Feeder Canal Studies                      L.S.      400      800       1,200
North Sadang Detailed Design (12 man-months)                  8       72          80
Sub-Total                                  700    2,300      3,000
Soil Erosion Program (Administered by MOA)
Soil erosion program in Cimanuk Catchment      L.S.      500      100        600
Area
Groundwater
Balance of cost of groundwater study of        L.S.      --       500        500
Madiun Area (equipment, consultants
and overseas training)
Training
a. O & M Visual Sstem
Foreign consul ants & counterparts         L.S.       95      245        240
Equipment - 20 units                       L.S.        5        5         10
Sub-Total                                 lOO      250         350
b. 0 & M In-service Training in Malaysia
20 persons for 3 months each =             750       --        45
60 man-months
20 persons to and from transport
Jakarta to Singapore                    160       --         3          3
Other Miscellaneous Expenses               L.S.      --         7          7
Sub-Total                                            55           55



INDONESIA                              ANNEX 6
Table §
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI                        Page 2
Details of Cost Estimates for Miscellaneous Services (Continued)
Rate    Local   Foreign   Total
USN        00 )-
Training (continued)
c. Senior Study Tours
6 persons for 2 months each =         1,250      --        15         15
12 man-months
6 persons to and from transport         650      --         5          5
Other Miscellaneous Expenses          L.S.      --          5          5
Sub-Total                                       25         25
d. Post-Graduate Training
6 persons for 12 months each =        1,200     --         85         85
72 man-months
6 persons to and from transport       1,600      --        10         10
Other Miscellaneous Expenses          L.S.      --          5          5
Sub-Total                                      100        100
e. Overseas Training
6 persons for 3 months each =         ------------no charge-----------
18 man-months
6 persons to and from transport       1,200     --         23         23
Jakarta to Hawaii
Other Miscellaneous Expenses          L.S.      --          7          7
Sub-Total                             --        30         30
Treining Sub-Total                    100      460        560
Technical Assistance
a.  One project maneger - expatriate for   2,500        --         90        90
PROSIDA - 36 months
b.  Two temporary duty drainage & river    4,500        --54                 54
experts for Rentang -
12 man-months
c.  One soil erosion expert - 12 months    4,500        --         54        54
d.  To and from travel expenses & misc.    L.S.         --         42        42
Sub-Total                                      240        240
Monitoring System  (Administered by MOA)
Agro-economic surveys for IDA/Bank             --       300       300       600
Irrigation Project Areas
Mapping                                            --      300    1,000      1,300
Base Cost                                             1,900    4,900      6,800
Physical contingencies                                  5oo       500     1,000
Expected price increases                              1,100    1,100      2,200
Total Cost                          3,500    6,500    10,000
1/ Includes technical assistance cost.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
1/
Expected Price Increases 
Indonesian Fiscal Year            75/76     76/77      77/78     78/79      79/80     80/81      Total
Estimated Annual Percentage
Increase
Civil Works                15        12         12        12         12        12
Equipment                  11         7.5        7.5       7.5        7.5       7.5
----------------------(UST Million)-      ----     ------_____
Cirebon
Civil Works                  .06      1.17       3.53      5.41       7.47      8.4&
Equipment                    .04       .06        .10       .09        .08        .07
Total              .10      1.23      3.63       5.50      7.55       8.55      26.56
Rentang
Civil Works                  .20      1.77       5.56      4.59       2.o6        .20
Equipment                    .02       .06        -         -          -         -
Total              .22      1.83      5.56       4.59      2.06        .20      14.46
Sampean Baru
Civil Works                  .08      1.06       2.74      1.94       1.83        .10
Equipment                    -         .02        .01       -          -         -
Total             .08       1.08      2.75       1.94      1.83        .10      7.78
Miscellaneous Services              .4o        .80       .45        .45       .05        .05      2.20
Total Expected Price Increases      .80      .4.94     12.39      12.48     11.49       8.9C     51.00
1/ Based on Bank Guidelines dated March 29, 1974.  Increases calculated by compounding the
estimated annual percentage increase in prior year and one-half the rate of increase in the                  Xl
year concerned.                                                                                              c4



ANNEX 6
Table 7
Fage 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Calculation for Schedule I of Loan Documents
Costs
Category                 Total       Foreign      Loan Aimount
- ---------llion?-
I.  Civil Works-  (PROSIDA)
Cirebon                       26.5         10.2
Rentang                        26.1        10.3
Sampean Baru                  13.5          5.8
bcpected price increases      17.9         14.7
Sub-Total           84.o        41.0            41.0*
* Disbursements will be 50% of total cost.
II.  0quipment, Vehicles &
Commnzications (PROSIDA)
Cirebon                        1.4          1.1
Rentang                        0.2          0.1
Sampean Baru                   0.3          0.3
Sub-Total            1.9         1.5             2.5*
* Disbursements will be 100% of actual foreign expenditures.
III.  Groundwater (DGI-JRD)          0.5          0.5            0.5*
* Disbursements will be 100% of actual foreign expendttures.
IV.  Agricultural Support
Program (MOA)
(i) Civil works              2.7         0.6
(ii) Equipment, vehicles      1.6          1.6
& communications
(iii) Technical assistance     1.0         o.8
* training
(iv) Monitoring survey        o.6          0.3
Sub-Total            5.9         3.3             5.5*
* Disbursements will be 100% of actual foreign expenditures and
50% of other costs.
1/ Consists of civil works contracts, tertiary development, pilot pro-
jects and PROSIDA buildings.



kNNEX 6
'TIble 7
P.ige 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGAT'LION P1tOJECT VI
Calculation for Schedule I of Loan Documents (Contimned)
Category                         Costs
Total      Foreign       Loan Amount
-------(US    M    ilion) -----------
V. Consulting Services,
Technical Assistance &
Training (PROSIDA)
Consultants                     2.3          1.5
Feasibility study               3.0          2.3
Training                        0.7          0.6
Technical assistance            0.2          0.2
Sub-Total            6.2          4.6             6.5*
* Disbursements will be 100% of actual foreign expenditures.
VI.  Mapping (DGWRD)                  1.3         1.0             1.0*k
* Disbursements will be 80% of total costs.
VII.  Unallocated
Physical contingencies         18.5          6.9
Balance of expected pri.ce     33.1          4.6             8.o
increases
TOThL                                            65.0
NOTE, 1:  Figures abstracted from Tables 1 throughl 4.
NOTE 2:  Majority of expected price increases added to civil works.
NOTE 3:  Other expected, price inereases added as follows:  Cat II
(1.5 + 1.C1 = 2.5), CEt IV (3.3 + 2.2 = 5.5), Cat V (4.6 +
1.9 = 6.5), balance held. in Cat VII.



ANNEX 6
Table 8
IONESIA
IRRMAT IJN PROJECT VI
Estimate Euild-up for Consulting Engineering
Services for _RntasV, Cirebon & Sampean Baru
Cirebon & Rentang                                        Rate          Amount
- (,Us) -------
Foreign Consultants
1  Irrigation Engineer & Teamleader 48 man months    6,000          288,000
3  Design Engineers 60 man months                     6,000         360,000
1 Construction Supervisor  36 man montba              6,000         196,000
Temporary Duty Personnel                           L.S.         250,000
3 Agriculturists - 36 man-months                       6,0o0        196,000
Local Consultants
10 Indonesian consultants 300 man months              1,000         300,000
Miscellaneous                                      L.S.          110,000
Total Cost                1,700,000
(i)  Proportionate cost for Cirebon System                     1,400,000
(ii)  Proportionate cost for Rentang System                       300,000
SaDpean Baru
Foreign Consultants
1 Senior Supervisor 12 months (part-time)             6,000         72,000
1 Design Supervisor 6 months (part-time)              6,000         36,ooo
2 Design Engineers each 12 months = 24 man months    6,000         144,000
Temporary £ity Personnel                            L.S.         128,000
Local Consultants
10 Local Engineers 24 months each = 240 man months    1,000         240,000
5 Local Surveyors 12 months each 5 60 man months        500          30,000
Miscellaneous                                                      50,000
Total Cost                                       700,000
Note: The above were used for estimating purposes and may be modified by GOI
and their consultants at project implementation.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDONEI EA
IRRIGATION PROJECT Vt
Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
A. Schedule of Expenditures
Indonesian Fiscal Year                Total
Item                      75/76   76/77   77/78   78/79   79/80   80/81    Cost
=_ -------   (Uss Million-    -
Cirebon Rehabilitation             1.8      7.1    13.7    15.9    18.1    17.9        74.5
Rentang--Additional Works          3.6    10.7    20.8    13.1       4.9       .4      53.5
Sampean Baru Irrigation System    1.2       5.9     9.9      5.6     4.2       .2      27.0
Miscellaneous Services             2.5      3.9     2.0      1.2       .2      .2      10.0
Total                     9.1    27.6    46.4    35.8    27.4    18.7        165.0
Total Anmmal 0 & M Costs
----------------(US$     000)    ---- ----------
Cirebon                             180     220     270      360     440      560
Rentang                             200     240      280     370     460      5jo
Sampean Baru                         20      25       30      40       50      65
(1980/81 represents full cost at project completion.)



ANNEX 7
Page 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Cirebon Irrigation Systems
Estimated Schedule of Expenditure
Indonesian Fiscal Year              Total
Item                   75/76  76/77  77/78  78/79  79/80  80/81   Cost
------------US$ Million)---------
Civil works                              -     2.1    6.3    6.4    5.9    5.4    26.1
Equipment, vehicles &                    .8     .4      .4     .3      .2     .1     2.2
communications
Training                                 .1     .1      .1     -      -       -      0.3
Cost of 0 & M during construction /    .2       .4      .7     .7      .8     .9    :3.7
Pilot area on-farm development           -      .1      .1     .1      .1     -      (c.4
projects
Agricultural support program             .2    1.5      .3     .2      -      -      2.2
Administration & overheads               .1     .3      .8     .8      .8     .6     3.4
Consulting services                      .3     .3      .3     .3     .1      .1     1.4
Base Cost                    1.7    5.2    9.0    8.8    7.9    7.1    39.7
Physical contingencies                   -      .6    1.1    1.6    2.7    2.2       8.2
Expected price increasos                 .1    1.3    3.6    5.5    7.5    8.6    26.6
Total Project Cost           1.8    7.1   13.7   15.9   18.1   17.9    74.5
1/ Incremental cost



ANNEX 7
Page 3
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Rentang Irrigation System
Estimated Schedule of Expenditure
Indonesian Fiscal Year             Total
Item                    75/76  76/77  77/78  78/79  79/70  80/ 31  Cost
_-----------------(US$ Million)----------------
Civil Works
Access road works                        .2     .7     -      -              _       .9
Barrage                                 -       .3    8.8    4.1     -             13.2
Camp offices & other buildings          .1     -       -      -      _       -       .1
100 K.V. sub-station & electric         .1      .5     -      -      -       -       .6
lines
Tertiary canal systems & structures    .3    1.4    1.4    1.5    1.5               6.1
Coastal area drainage works             .8      .9    1.0    1.1    1.0      _      4.8
Sub-Total                    1.5    3.8   11.2    6.7    2.5      -     25.7
Pilot areas - on-farm development       .1      .1     .1    .1       _      -       .4
Communications                          .1      .1     -      -       -      -       .2
Agriculture                              .7    1.0    1.0      .6     .3     .1     3.7
Administration & overheads               .2     .5     .7     .6      .1     .1     2.2
Sub-Total                    1.1    1.7    1.8    1.3      .4      .2     6.5
Consulting services                     .2      .1     -      -       -      -       .3
Base Cost                    2.8    5.6   13.0    8.0    2.9       .2    32.5
Contingencies
Physical contingencies                   .6    3.3    2.2     .5      -      -      6.6
Expected price increases                .2    1.8    5.6    4.6    2.0       .2    14.4
Total Project Cost           3.6   10.7   20.8   13.1    4.9       .4    53.5



ANNEX 7
Page 4
INDONESIT.
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Sampean Baru Irrigation System
Estimated Schedule of Expenditure
Indonesian Fiscal Year              Total
Item                     75/76  76/77  77/78  78/79  79/80  80/8f   Cost
_-tUS$ Million)7ft----:--------------
Civil Works
Weir & int;ake structure                  -      o.4    0.3      _      -       _      0.7
Earth dam & spillway                      -      1.5    1.9      -      -      -       3.4
Primary canals & structures               -      1.4    2.1    1.6    1.0 .            6.1
Tertiary canal systems & structures       -       -     0.3    0.2    0.2       -      0.7
Drainage system                           -       -      -      0.1     -       -      0.1
Inspection roads & access roads           -      0.2    0.2    0.3    0.3       -      1.0
Surveys & borings                        0.2    0.1      -       -      -      -       0.3
Land levelling                            -       -     o.4    o.4    0.3       -      1.1
Upland irrigation pilot project           _       _      _      0.1     -       -      0.1
Sub-Total                      0.2    3.6    5.2    2.7    1.8    --       13.5
Houses & communications                  0.2    0.2    0.1    0.1       -       -      0.6
Land acquisition                         0.1      -     0.1      -      _       -      0.2
0 & M during construction                 -       -      -       -      -     0.1      0.1
Adrministration & overheads              0.3    o.4    o.4    0.2    0.2        -      1.5
Sub-Total                     o.6    o.6    o.6    0.3    0.2    0.1        2.4
Consulting services                      0.2    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1       -       0.6
Base Cost                      1.0    4.3    5.9    3.1    2.1    0.1    16.5
Contingencies
Physical contingencies                   0.1    O.5    1.2    o.6    0.3        -      2.7
Expected price increases                 0.1    1.1    2.8    1.9    1.8    0.1        7.8
Total Project Cost             1.2    5.9    9.9    5.6    4.2    0.2    27.0



ANNEX 7
Page 5
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Miscellaneous Services
Estimated Schedule of Expenditure
Indonesian Fiscal Year              Total
Item                    75/76  76/77  77/78  76/79  79/6  650781   Cost
---_-- ----(Us$ 'oo' F-
Feasibility studies of future            1,200  1,500    300    -        -       -     3,000
project
Soil erosion program                        150    150    150    150    -        -       600
Balance cost of groundwater                200    300    -        -      -       -       500
investigation
Training & study tours                      90    150    160    160    -         -       560
Technical assistance                         90     90     60    -       -       -       240
Monitoring systems                          100    100    100    100   100    100        600
Mapping                                     300    500    500       -                   1,300
Base Cost                      2,130  2,790  1,270    410   100    100    6,800
Physical contingencies                      -      300    300    400    -        -     1,000
Expected price increases                    400    800    450    450    50       50    2,200
2,530  3,890  2,020  1,260   150    150   10,000
Total Cost (US$ Million)        2.5    3.9    2.0    1.2       .2     .2    10.0



ANNEX 7
Page 6
INDONESIA
IRRMGATION PROJECT VI
B. Schedule of Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year         Accumulated
& Semester            Disbursements
(US$ Million)
1976
1st                      1.0
2nd                      2.5
1977
1st                      6.o
2nd                     11.0
1970
19.0
2nd                     27.0
1979
st5                    34.0
2nd                    40.0
1980
ST                     o45.o
2nd                    50.0
1981
1st                     55.0
2nd                    6o.o
1982
1st                    63.0
2nd.                   65.0



AiNEX 8
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Training
1.        There is a shortage of trained and experienced personnel in almost
all agricultural and irrigation activities in Indonesia. Those trained prior
to World War II are either retired or nearing retirement and tnere is a severe
shortage of qualified personnel to replace them and to staff new positions.
Consequently, more than the usual amount of staff training is provided in
tnis project.
Irrigation Training
2.        The Ministry of Public Works and Electric Power (MPEP) operates
two institutes -- the Bandung Technical Academy (Akademi Teknik Pekerjaan
Umum and Tenaga Listrik) and the Surabaya Training Institute. Formerly, the
Academy gave only formal academic courses towards degrees in civil, electrical
and mechanical engineering and architecture but, since 1969, at the request
of the DGWRD it has provided three short refresher courses for irrigation
sectional and sub-sectional officers and a course for irrigation construction
foremen. The courses last for a period of three months, training about 100
persons in total.
3.        The Surabaya Institute was established in 1970 with the sole
purpose of training old and newly recruited irrigation sub-sectional officers
and field foremen (Pengamat). The course for new recruits comprises three
months of classroom study and nine montns of actual field work in an operating
irrigation project. The course for officers who have already been in service
a few years, consists of three months classroom study only. Each of the
courses trains about 40 men. Local training in these institutes would
continue under the DGWRD's program from GOI funds. The training proposed
under the project is as follows:
4.        Audio-Visual 0 & M Training.  A program of training with audio-
visual systems and the necessary equipment would be prepared at the Surabaya
Training Institute where facilities already exist.  Foremen (Pengamat) and
sub-foremen (Jurus) would be given audio-visual training for a period of
one month all over Indonesia and nine months of actual field work.  Foreign
consultants experienced in this field (R. Jorgensen, USA) would lnelp prepare
the program (Annex 4). Once the tapes and coordinated slides have been
prepared, thiey would be duplicated and distributed througnout the country.
About 20 courses would be prepared covering all aspects of 0 & M work.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
5.        0 & M In-Service Training.  Some 20 Provincial chief and section
irrigation engineers would be sent overseas for 0 & M in-service training
for a period of 3 months each. They would work on selected systems with
their equivalent level officers. A suitable training place would be Malaysia
where there are no language problems and 0 & M is of a high standard.
6.        Study Tours.  Six senior engineers would be sent for study tours
in neighboring countries for a period of two months each, and 6 middle-level
engineers would be sent for training at the East-West Center at Hawaii or
other suitable institution. DGWRD would select the engineers and they would
be sent in the early years of project implementation.
7.        In-service Planning and Design Training.  The foreign consultants
to be engaged under the project would provide training to their counterparts
in planning, design and construction (Annex 4). Under the terms of the
reference of the consultants for Cirebon, Rentang and Sampean Baru, they
would be required to associate themselves with local Indonesian consulting
firms. This would uplift the capacity of these firms and their staff.
8.        Post Graduate Training.  The DGWRD would select six post graduate
level engineers qualified in planning and design. They would be sent for
training overseas for a period of 12 months each to work at selected institu-
tions or with suitable firms.
Agricultural Training
9.        MOA is responsible for agricultural training below university
level. Senior Agricultural High Schools, of which there were 96, are being
expanded and equipped under Credit 288-IND, and 14 new such schools should be
operational in 1977. Student output would then be about 900 per annum. The
Institute Pertanian Bogor (IPB) provides three-month courses for MOA staff
in specialized fields, i.e., rice production, plant protection, etc., as
subject matter specialists. Training of some 35 Provincial agriculturalists
.as subject matter specialists would be included in the project.
10.       Eight MOA senior staff working on the project would be sent
overseas for courses of about three months duration to study their particular
speciality, i.e., rice production techniques, multiple croppings, rice
agronomy, plant protection and farmer organizations.
12.       Training in modern agricultural practices would be provided under
the project for all agricultural officers and extension workers working at
the sub-district (Kecamatan) and village (Desa) levels in the project area.
Subjects to be covered in the training would include: (a) characteristics of
new rice varieties and some important upland crops and modern agricultural
practices for these crops; (b) irrigation water management; (c) the use of
fertilizers and pesticides; and (d) methods and techniques of approaching,
reaching and gaining cooperation of the farmers. The training courses would
last about one month and would be conducted at the ADC and in Rural Extension
Centers, where farmers would also be trained.



ANNEX 9
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Crop and Farm Budgets
Tne present and projected cropping patterns are given in Annex 1.
Tables attached to this Annex include the following for each project area:
(a)  crop production costs under present and future "with"
project conditions (Table 1). Present costs are
based on the results of interviews in the area during
appraisal. The input levels for future "with project"
conditions are mainly based on recommendations by the
Agricultural Extension Services of the Ministry of
Agriculture with minor modification, and on assumptions
of increased mechanization of threshing and some introduc-
tion of more efficient harvesting by sickles;
(b) monthly labor requirements are based on present and proposed
cropping calendars (Table 2). It is assumed that there
would be no major change in the method of land preparation
under the project, while there would be an increase in the
labor requirements for crop management, which covers such
activities as weeding, fertilizer and pesticide application,
harvesting and water control practices;
(c)  crop budgets uader present and future conditions "with"
the project (Tables 3-5).
(d) farm budgets for typical family farms of 0.25 ha, 0.5 ha
and 1.5 ha (in Cirebon/Rentang) or 1.0 ha (in Sampean Baru)
(Tables 6-8). The budgets are calculated on a cash flow
basis and only hired labor has been costed. The monthly
requirements for hired labor was calculated by comparing the
labor requirements with the availability per farm of a maximum
of 40 man-days/month of family labor. Land taxes are
estimated at Rp 6,000/ha at full development of which
Rp 2,600/ha would be for 0 & M of the irrigation systems.
About 30% of the farmers in the Cirebon and Rentang project
areas are sharecroppers. Tnis tenure situation has been
taken into account in the analysis. The budgets are based
on projected market -rices in Indonesia expressed in 1974
constant prices. The following symbols are used in the
tables: Present (P); Future or full development with
project (W).



INDONESIA
IRRIGA5TION PROJECT VI
Crop Production Cost
Local Variety Paddy                                                                                              WYV Padd
Wet Season                                                                Wet Season                                                          Dry Season
P                          W                                              p                         W                                        p                            W
Cash Inputs/ (Ro/ha)
Cultivation                            7,500                       7,500                                         7,500                        7,500                                  7,500                        7,500
Seed                                   6,400  (2,000)              2,600                                         5,600  (1,800)               1,900                                  5.600  (1,800)               1,900
Fertilizer                             2,400    (800)              7,600                                        12,000  (4,000)              12,000                                 11,400  (3.800)              12,000
Agrn-chenicals                           -                         3,500                                         6,600   (2,200)              9,000                                  6,600   (2,200)              9.000
Har.esting                             9,000  (3,000)              6,500                                        16,000   (5,600)             12,000                                 15,000  (5,000)              12,000
Other                                    300                         6000                                           200                         600                                    300                          600
Interest                                         (900)                                                                   (1,300)                     (2,800)                                 (1,300)             _        (2,700)
Total Cash Inputs                   25,600 (14,500)             28,300 (30,100)                               48,600 (22,700)              43,800 (46,600)                        46,400 (21,900)              43,000 (45,700)
Labhr Input (nan-days/ha)
Land Preporatio3/                         44                           44                                            44                          44                                     44                            44
Sowing, Nursery and Planting              36                           36                                            38                          38                                      36                           38
Crop Management                           30                           45                                            55                          65                                      55                           70
Waryesting and Threshing                   45                          55                                            50                           70                                     50                           70
Total Labor Inputs                     155                         Ito                                           187                          217                                    190                          222
1/  Ecoonoic prices bhsed on world nanket prices for rice and fertili-er for use in eco-nmic analysis.  Figures in parentheses ore financial prices preyailing at appraiail for use in financial analysis.  Costs at present
ore higher than those in future, because world narket prices fnr rice (need) and fertiliners are projected to fall (at 1974 constant prices).
2/ Based on the fallouing asaunptions at full developnent:
a)  Cultivation - 40% of the paddy lands by bhllocks at the rental rate of Rp5O0 per five hour working day, and 60% by hund lahor.
b)  Seed ruts   - 35  kg/ho of local variety and 25 hg/ha of HYV.
c)  Fertilioer  - 100  kg/ha of Urea and 20 kg/ha of TSP for local variety,and
150  kg/ha of Urea and 40 kg/ha of TSP for iiVY.  Costed at Rpp210/kg for econanic analysis,
and Rp4O/kg for fare budget at present, and at Rp63/kg for both ecnonoic and financial analyses in the future.
d) Agro-chemicals - 0.5 lit./ha of Diazinon and 0.2 kg/ha of Zinc Phosphate for local varietyand
1.5 lit./ha of Diazinon and 0.3 kg/ha of Zien Phosphate for HYV.
e) Harvesting - Mechanical threshing, transport and drying facilities, rested at 5% cf the production value.
f)  Other - 0 &IM charges for the ninor  irrigation systeas and other costs. .
g)  Interest - Ass-uied interest of 77. per year of production credit for 7 nonthn on 90% of cash inputs.                                                                                                                                          A 
3/  EIcluding labor handling bullo-ks, the cost of which is included under cash inputs.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Crop Production Cost-'/
Soyabean
Before Wet Season Rico                                      After Wet Season Rice                                                       Sugarcane
2/PW
Cash Inputsa  (Rp/ha)
Cultivation                                              -                             -                                                                               90500                           95000
Seed/Pla ting Material                  4,800                       5,900                           4,800                     5,900                                   29,000  (11,000)                10.500
Fettilirer                                  -                       1,300                              -                      2,200                                   42,000  (14,000)                22,000
Agro-chemicals                              -                         500                              _                      1,000                                     6,000    (3,500)               6,000
Harvosting--
OHert                                      150--                                                                                                                      42,000  (16,000)                19,000
Other                                      100                        200                             300                       600                                   13,000  (70,000)                95,000
Interest                                         (500)                       (700)                           (500)                      (900)                                   (13.000)                       (17.000)
Total Cash Inputc                     4,900 (5,400)               8,300 (9,000)                   5,100 (5,600)             9,700 (10,600)                         141,500 (138,000)               162,000 (179,000)
Labor Inputs (nan-days/ha)
Land P-p-tion                               20                          30                              20                       30                                       120                             120
Sewing, Planting and Nuroery                15                          20                             15                        15                                       100                             100
Crop Mlanagement                            20                          30                              35                       45                                       110                             140
Harvesting                                  20                          30                              30                       40                                       130                             170
Total Labor Inputs                        75                        100                             100                       130                                       460                             530
1/  Economic prices based on world market prices for crops asd fertilioet for use in economic analysis.  Figures in parentheses are financial prices prevailiog at appraisal for use in fans budget a-alysis.  Costs at present are
higher than thoso in the fature, bec.ase world market prices fot crops (sed) rod fertilizers are projected to fall (at 1974 c.ostant prices).
2/ Based as the following aossuptions at fil1 development:
a) Cultivation - 100% by hand labor for soyabetn and 50% by bullock for sugarcans.
b)  Seeding rate -   yoyahea.; 45 kg/ha, costed at 130 Rp/kg.
Planting rate - sug=rcane; 1 ton/ha/y-ar of cane, costed at 10,500 Rp/ton/year.
c)  Fertilier -soyabear; DAP 20 kg/ha ie the wet season and 35 hg/ha in the dry Season.
- sugarcane; Urea 250 kg/ha and TSP 100 kg/ha.
Costed at Rp 63/kg.
d)  Agro-chemicals - lamp sun.
e)  Other - 0 & 11 charges for the niner irrigation systems and other roots.
f)  Interest - 10% of production credits on 90% of cash inpots for soyabe-n, and
15% fec 18 months on 70% of cash inputs for sugar cane.
3/ Excloding laoho handling bulonks, the cost of which is included onder cash inputs.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Crop Production Costsl/
Con                                                                                        C-eeva                                                                              Cotton (Sced)
Wet Season                                                      Wat Season                                              Dry Seosoa                                                   Dry Se.o..
p                        W                                    P                            WI                          P                            SW                             P                            W
Cash Inpouts  (np/ho)
Cultivotion                         5,000                    6,000                                 1,000                               _                    3,000                              -                        5,000                       6,000
Soed/Plantieg Mater-lo              1,300 (1,100)             1,500                                  400                               -                      400                              -                        6,200                       4,600
Fertilizar                          6,000 (2,000)             5,700                                   -                                                     1,200    (400)                     -                       18,000  (6,000)              9,400
Agro-chnontcols                        -                      2,500                                   -                                                                                                                 6,000  (2,000)               6,000
Humps tiep
Oth-r                                  -                        600                                                                                                                             -                      1  ,000 (10000)             20,000
Intorast                                     (600)                   (1,100)                                (1                                                                                                                  (2600)                      (4.000)
Total Canh Inputs                12,300 (8,700)           16,300 (17,400)                        1,400 (1,500)                                            4,600 (4,100)                      -                       53,200 (39,800)             46,000 (50,000)
Labor Inputs (nan-dove/ho)
Lsnd Preporation                        20                       20                                    10                                                       15                                                          40                          40
sowing/Pla-ting                         10                       15                                     2                              -                         2                              -                           15                          15
Crop Maeage-seet                        35                       45                                     8                              -                       10                                                           30                          50
Harvesting                              25                       35                                    10                                                      25                              -                            35                          60
Total Labor Iepute                   90                       115                                   30                               -                       52                               _                         120                          165
I/  Economi  prices bhsed 00 world narket pricoa for  -ru, cotton (eod), and f-rtili-er fot con Sn economi.   onalystn.  Figures in parentheses are ficoncial prices prevailing at appra-ial fo-se in farn budget analysi-.  Costs at pr-s-nt
a-  high-r than those in fuurer, becouse world norket prices for crop (seed) and fertilizee-  are projected to fall (at 1974 constant pricos).
2/ BDsed on the followieg aetetapti-ne at full dovelop-ent:
a)  Cultivation - 50%. of tho landn propared by bullocks at the rental rate of Rp500 pun fiv- hbor working day, and 50% by haud labor.
b)  Sped rate   - corn; 20 kg/ba, costed at 75 Rp/kg.  Cotton:;  0 kg/ha, contod at 230 Rp/kg.  C.asa.v:; Iup stu  for planting rateria.,
r)  Fertili-er  - corn; Urea 70 hg/ha and TSP 20 kg/ha.  Cotton; DAP 150 kg/ha.  Coatid at 63 Rp/kg.
d)  Agro--heiralu - loop sun,
e) Other - O & M charges fur the rinur irrigation synste= und othbr route.
f)  Intereat - 10% 00 pr-du-ti-n  redits fur 70% of ranh inputs.
3/  Eicluding labor haudling bull:ckn, the root of which in included under rc-h inpun.t



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Monthly Labor Requirements (=an-dayu/ha)
Jan    Feb    Mar   Apr  Ma    Jun    Jul    Aug                Oct   Nov    Dec    Total
Wet Sea ion
Local ar. Paddy  P      36       5     15    40      5     _       _      _      _      _       15     39      155
w     36      6     17    40      10     -      _      _       _      _      15      39      163
W     36     10     20    45      15            _                            15      39      180
HYV Paddy         P     53     10      20    45      5     -       -      -      -       _      15     39       187
Wd    53    10      25    45      13     -      _      _       _      _      15      39      200
W     55     13     30    50      15     _      _      _       _      _      15      39      217
Second. Crop      P     -      -       -     -      -      -       -      20     15      10     10     20        75
(Soyabean)             -      -             -      -      -              25     15     12      13     25       90
w     -             -      _      _      -      -       25     25     15     15      30      110
Corn              P     13     12      25    _-                           -      -       -      20     20        90
W     13     12     28    -       _      _      _      _       _      -      20      22       95
W     13     13     37    -       _      _      _      _       _      _       20     30      115
Cassava           p      6      -      -      2      4       4      4     _       -             -      10        30
W,     6     -      _       2      4      4      4      -                            10       30
W     -      -      -      -      _      -      _       _      _       _      _      _         _
Dry, Season
HYV Paddy         P     -       -      -     -      15      39     55     15      16     40     10      -       190
W  -   _      _     _      15      39     55     17      18     45     13      -       202
w     -      _      _      _      15     39     60      18     20     55      15     -       222
Cassava           p     3       -      -     17     11      -      -       3       7      7      4      -        52
Wd    3      -      -     17      U      -      -        3      7      7             -         52
W                   -      -      -      _       _      _      _       _      _      _         _
Second. Crops     P     -       -      -     10     25      15     10     10      30     -      _       _       100
(Soyabean)             -      -       -     10     25     20      13     12     35      -      -       -       115
W     -      _      _     10      30     20     15      15     10     _-             -       130
Cotton            P     -       -      -     40     20      10      8      7      10     25     -       -       120
W            -      -      40     20     10     10      10     10      27     -      -        127
w     -      -      -      40     20     15     15      15     15     45      -      -        165
Sugar Cane        I      7       7     17    53     98    100      77     46      24     17       7      7      460
W      7      7     17    55    1o      110     80      46     24     17       7      7       480
W      .0    10     23    55    lr      110     87      K3    33       20     10     10       530



INDLONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Cirebon: Crop Budgets'l/
Local Variety Paddy                   HYV Paddy (Wet Season)                HYV Paddy (Dry Season)
P                W                     P                 w                     P                 W
Yield (ton/ha)                                         1.5               2.3                   2.8              4.5                    2.5               4.2
Farm-gate price (Rp'000/ton)                         40.0              53.0                  40.0              53.0                  40.0              53.0
Gross Value of Production (Rp'000/ha)                 60.0            121.9                 112.0             238.5                 100.0             222.6
Production Costs2/ (Rp'OQO/ha)                        14.5             30.1                  22.7              46.6                  21.9              45.7
Net Value of Production-.  (Rp'000/ha)                45.5             91.8                  89.3             191.9                   78.1             176.9
Labor Requirements (man-days/ha)                     155              180                   187               217                   190               222
Soyabean (Wet Season)                  Soyabean (Dry Season)
P                W                     P                 W
Yield (ton/ha)                                         0.4               0.8                   0.7              1.2
Farm-gate Price (Rp'000/ton)                         130              104                   130               104
Gross Value of Prqduction (Rp'000/ha)                 52.0             83.2                  91.0             124.8
Production Costs.2/ (Rp'OQ0/ha)                        5.4               9.0                   5.6             10.6
Net Value of Production2?  (Rp'000/ha)                46.6              74.2                  85.4            114.2
Labor Requirements (man-days/ha)                      75              110                   100               140
1/ Financial costs and prices based on Annex 9, Table 1
2/ Excluding labor costs.
'A1



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Rentang: Crop Budgets./
Local Variety Paddy                 HYV Paddy (Wet Season)                  HYV Paddy (Dry Season)
P                w                     P                 W                     P                 w
Yield (ton/ha)                                          1.7              2.3                   3.0               4.5                   2.8               4.2
Farm-gate Price (Rp'000/ton)                          40.0              53.0                  40.0              53.0                  40.0              53.0
Gross Value of PTrduction (Rp'000/ha)                 68.0             121.9                 120.0             238.5                 112.0             222.6
Production Costs-!  (Rp'0200/ha)                      14.5              30.1                  22.7              46.6                  21.9              45.7
Net Value of Production-  (Rp'000/ha)                  53.5             91.8                  97.3             191.9                  90.1             176.9
Labor Requirements (man-days/ha)                     155               180                   187               217                   190               222
Soyabean (Wet Season)                  Soyabean (Dry Season)
P                W                     P                 W
Yield (ton/ha)                                          0.7               1.2                 90.0             115.0
Farm-gate Price (Rp'000/ton)                          130              104                     8.8               8.4
Gross Value of P2gduction (Rp'000/ha)                  91.0            124.8                 792.0             966.0
Production Costs-  (RP'90O/ha)                          5.6             10.6                 138.0             179.0
Net Value of Production-  (Rp'000/ha)                  85.4            114.2                 654.0             787.0
Labor Requirements (man-days/ha)                      100              140                   320               380
1/ Financial costs and prices based on Annex 9, Table 1.
2/ Excluding labor costs.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Sampean Baru:  Crop Budgets!/
Local Variety Padd:A                    HYV Paddy (Wet Season)                               Corn                             Soyabean (Dry Season)
p                 W                       P                 W                        P                 W                        P                  W
Yield (ton/ha)                                          1.5               -                        -                 4.0                     0.8                2.0                     0.4                1.0
Farm-gate Price (Rp'000/ton)                           40.0               -                        -                53.0                    46.o               43.0                   130                104
Gross Value of P5?duction (Rp'000/ha)                  60.0               -                        -               212.0                    36.8               86.0                    52.0              104.0
Production Costs-  (Rp'000/ha)                         14.5               -                        -                46.6                     8.7               17.4                     5.6               10.6
Net Value of Production2/ (Rp'000/ha)                  45.5               -                        -               165.4                    28.1               68.6                    46.4               93.4
Labor Requirements (man-days/ha)                      155                 -                        -               222                      90                115                     100                140
Cassava (Wet Season)                              Cassava                                  Cotton (Seed)_
P                 W                       P                 w                        P                 W
Yield (ton/ha)                                          0.3                -                       3.0               -                        1.0               1.5
Farm-gate Price (Rp'000/ton)                            7.0               -                        7.0               -                     244                178
Gross Value of Production (Rp'00/ha)                    2.1                -                      21.0               -                     244.0              267.0
Production Costs ! (Rp'090/ha)                          1.5                -                       4.1               -                      39.8               50.0
Net Value of Production?!  (Rp'000/ha)                  0.6                -                      16.9               -                     204.2              217.0
Labor Requirements (man-days/ha)                       30                  -                      52                 -                     120                165
1/ Financial costs and prices based on Annex 9, Table 1,
2/ Excluding labor costs.
3/ Cassava interplanted with corn.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Cirebon: Farm Budgets
0.25 ha Farm                                 0.5 ha Farm                                    1.5 ha Farm
Owner Farmer             Sharecropper          Owner Farmer         Sharecropper             Owner Farmer           Sharecropper
Unit       Present   Future    Present   Future          Present   Future       Present   Future       Present   Future    Present   Future
Local Variety Paddy (Wet)                     ha            0.10      0.03         0.10      0.03         0.17      0.05         0.17      0.05         0.40       .20         0 40.      0.20
HYV Paddy (Wet)                               ha            0.15       0.22        0.15      0.22         0.33      0.45         0.33      0.45         1,10       1.30         1.10      1.30
11YV Paddy (Dry)                              ha            0.08      0.10         0.08      0.10         0.10      0.15         0.09      0.14         0.25       0.30        0.25       0. 36
Secuadary Cru,,                               ha            0  ')   0.05           0.05      0.05         0.10      0.08         0,1W      0.08         0.15       0.15        0.15       015
Total CroppeeI A,'fi-                         ha            0.38       0.40        0.38      0.40         0.70      0.73         0l 69      0.72        1.90       1.95         1.90   J .95
Cropping Intensity                            %             152        160         152        160         140         146        138        144          127       130          127       130
Total Crop Production -
Paddy                                      kg             770     1,480          770     1,480        1,430     2,770        1,430     2,770        4,310     7,570        4,310     7.570
Secondary Crops                            kg              40        60           40        60           70       100           70       100          110        180         110        180
Gross Value of Production                  Rp '000           36.0      84.7         36.0      84.7        66.3    157.2          66.3      157.2        186.7    420.0         186.7    420.0
Sharecrcpper's Payment to Land Owner  Rp '000                 -         -          18.0       42.3         -          -          33.1       78.6          -         -           93.3     210.0
P ,c        Cow t(ts                       Rp '000            6.9      16.3          3.4       8.1        12.7       30.2          6.3      15.1         37.1      81.9         18.5      40.9
Co%t of Hired Farm Labor 31                Rp '000            -         -            -         -            -         -            -         -           15.3      19.3          7.6        9.6
Net Value of Production
(Before Water Charges)                 Rp '000           29.1      68.4         14.6      34.3         53.6     127.0         26.9      63.5        134.3     318.8         67.3      159.5
Land Tax Including Water Charges 4/   Rp '000                 0.4       1.5          -         -            0.8       3.0          -         -            2.3        9.0         -          -
Net Crop Income 5/                         Rp '000           28.7      66.9         14.6      34.3         52.8    124.0          26.9     63.5         132.0    309.8          67.3      159.5
Farm Labor Requirements                    man-days           55        82           55        82          117       150          117      150           331       405          331       /,05
1/  Based on Annex 1, Tables 4 and                                                                                                                                                                          s
2/  Based on Annex 9, Table l.
3/  Based on maximum availability of 40 man-days per month of family labor.
4/  IPEDA.  Rp 1,500/ha at present and Rp 6,000/ha in the future.
5/  Assumes all paddy is sold, actually small farmers' families will eat much of the crop.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Rentang: Farm Budgets
0.25 ha Farm                              0.5 ha Farm                              1.5 ha Farm
Owner Farm          Sharecropper           owner Farm          Sharecropper           Owner Farm           Sharecropper
Unit        Present   Future    Present   Future    Present   Future    Present   Future    Present   Future    Present   Future
Local Variety Paddy (Wet)                          ha            0.08      0.03        0.08     0.03        0.25      0.08        0.25      0.08        0.75     0.25        0.75      0.25
HYV Paddy (Wet)                                    ha            0.17      0.22        0.17      0.22       0.25      0.42        0.25      0.42        0.75      1.25        0.75     1.25
HYV Paddy (Dry)                                    ha            0.08      0.10        0.08      0.10       0.14      0.16        0.13      0.15        0.40      0.49        0.40     0.49
Secondary Crops                                    ha            0.02      0.02        0.02      0.02       0.02      0.02        0.02      0.02        0.01      0.01       0.01      0.01
Total Cropped Area                                 ha            0.35      0.37        0.35      0.37       0.66      0.68        0.65      0.67        1.91      2.00        1.89      1.98
Cropping Intensity                                 %             140       148         140       148         132      136         130       134         127       133         127       133
Total Crop Production -/
Paddy                                         kg             870    1,480          870    1,480       1,570    2,740        1,540    2,700       4,650    8,270        4,650    8,270
Secondary Crops                               kg              20        30          20       30          20        30          20        30          10        20          10        20
Gross Value of Production                      Rp '000          37.4       81.6       37.4      81.6        65.4    148.3        64.2    146.2        187.3    440.4        187.3    440.4
Sharecropper's Payment to Land Owner           Rp '000                                18.7      40.8                             32.1      73.1                              93.6    220.2
Production Costs 2/                            Rp '000           6.9       15.9        3.4       7.9        12.5     29.5         6.2      14.7        36.7      88.3        18.3      44.1
Costs of Hired Farm Labor -                    Rp '000           -          -          -         -           -         -           -        -          15.1      30.7         7.5      15.3
Net Value of Production
(Before Water Charges)                      Rp '000          30.5       65.7       15.3     32.9        52.9    118.8         25.9      58.4       135.5    321.4         67.9    160.8
Land Tax Including Water Charges 4             Rp '000           0.4        1.5        -         -           0.8       3.0         -         -          2.3       9.0         -         -
Net Crop Income 5/                             Rp '000          30.1       64.2       15.3      32.9        52.1    115.8         25.9     58.4       133.2    312.4         67.9    160.8
Farm Labor Requirements                        mnan-days          61        78         61        78         113       142         113      142         333       425         329       421
1/ Based on Annex 1, Tables 6 and 7.
2/  Based on Annex 9, Table 1.
3/  Based on maximum availability of 40 man-days per month of family labor.
4/  IPEDA.  Rp 1,500/ha at present and Rp 6,000/ha in the future.
5/ Assumes all paddy is sold, actually small farmers' families will eat much of the crop.



ANNEK 9
Table 8F
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Sampean Baru: Farm Budgets
0,25 ha Farm           0.5 ha Farm         1.0 ha Farm
Unit   Present  Future    Present   Future    Present   Future
Local Variety Paddy (Wet)       ha       0.10      -          0.10      _          0.20      -
HYV Paddy (Wet)                 ha        -        0,20        -        0.40        -       0.75
Corn (Wet)                      ha       0.08      0.05       0.13      0.08       0.25     0,20
Cassava (Wet)                   ha       0.05       -         0.10       -         0.20      -
Cassava (Dry)                  ha        0.0i       -         0.07       -         0.13      -
Soyabean (Dry)                  ha       0.01      0.22       0.05      0.43       0.10     0.88
Total Cropped Area              ha       0.28      0.47       0.45      0.93       o.88     1.83
Cropping Intensity             %         112       188         90       186         88      183
Total Crop Production -
Paddy                        kg       150       800        150     1,600        300    3,Q000
Corn                        kg         60       100        110       160        200      400
Cassava                     kg        140       -          340       -         990       -
Soyabean                    kg          5       220         20       430        400      880
Gross Value of Production  Rp '000      10.4      69.6       16.0     136.4       69.7    267.7
Prodaction Costs J         Rp '000       2.5      12.5        3.3       7.8        6.5     47.8
Cost of Hired Farm Labor-/ Rp '000        -         -          -         -          -       1.4
Net Value of Production
(Before Water Charges)    Rp '000       7.9      57.1      12o7      128.6      63.2    218.5
Land Tax ap1 Water
Charges 4                Rp '000       0.4       1.5        0.8       3.0       1.        6.o
Net Crop Income            Rp 1000       7.5      55.6       11.9     125-6.      61.7    212.5
Farm Labor Requirements   man-days       28        78         40       152         72      301
l/  Based on Annex 1, Tables 8 and 9.
2/ Based on Annex 9, Table 1.
3/ Based on maximum availability of 40 man-days per month of faxdly labor.
4/ IPEDA. Rp 1,500/ha at present and Rp 6,000/ha in the future.
5 Assumes all paddy is sold, actually small farmers' families will eat much of the
crop.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Economic Analysis
Prices
1.        All farm inputs and outputs were evaluated at projected 1985 farm-
gate prices expressed in 1974 constant prices. For the major interna-
tionally traded commodities, these prices correspond to the Bank's world
market price projections. The calculations are given in Table 1. In
the absence of a Bank world market price projection for cassava, the
present farm gate price of Rp 7 per kg (US$17 per ton) has been used.
Farm Labor
2.        There are no comprehensive, reliable statistics on population
and labor force in the project areas. Total population in the project
areas was estimated based on the 1971 population census and the 1963
agricultural census. Assuming an average family size of seven, 2.0 full-
time workers per family and a participation of agriculture in overall
employment of between 80 and 85%, total labor supply at present is about
550,000 farm workers in the Cirebon and Rentang project areas combined
and about 50,000 in Sampean Baru. Assuming further that each worker
provides 20 days' labor per month gives an estimated farm labor supply
of 11 million man-days per month in Cirebon/Rentang and 1.0 million man-
days in Sampean Baru. With 1.8%' annual growth of farm population, the
monthly farm labor supply at project full development would be about 14
million man-days in Cirebon/Rentang and 1.2 million man-days in Sampean
Baru.
3.        Estimates of total monthly and annual labor requirements for
various crops are given in Table 2. Total labor requirements by month
are given in Table 3. These figures show considerable seasonal fluctua-
tion. Since most labor would be unpaid family labor, labor mobility is
limited and the market wage for unskilled labor is frequently fixed by
custom rather than market forces, the wage actually paid does not reflect
tihe true cost of labor to the economy. The opportunity cost of labor
was therefore estimated on a monthly basis using available information
on labor supply and demand. Tne approach used does not attempt to adjust
for intertemporal or interpersonal income distribution effects, or to place
a value on leisure.
4.        It is postulated that the marginal opportunity cost of farm labor
in the project areas can be approximated by S-shaped curves (Chart 9303).
The opportunity cost is positive at all levels of labor demand and increases



ANNEX 10
Page 2
as more labor is employed in farm work. Tihe increase is slow at high levels
of unemployment but becomes faster as tile labor supply becomes fully
used. At full employment in the project areas, tne opportunity cost is
assumed equal to the market wage. As the demand for farm labor increases
beyond this level, the curve continues to rise but at a slower rate. At
a level of 15 to 20% above the prevailing full employment wage, the curve
becomes horizontal, indicating that at that opportunity cost (and market
wage), large numbers of laborers would be attracted to the project areas
from surrounding areas.
5.        It is reasonable to approximate each S-shaped curve by ciree
straight line segments.  Three points based on information from the pro-
ject areas determine their positions.  Point A indicates the minimum
opportunity cost of farm labor. The opportunity cost is estimated as the
value of alternative output foregone in non-farm employment, such as fishing
and minor trades, of about Rp 100 per man-day in Cirebon/Rentang and Rp 50
per man-day in Sampean Baru. Point 13 indicates that at full employment of
14 million man-days per month in Cirebon/Rentang and 1.2 million man-days per
month in Sampean Baru, the opportunity cost would equal the market wage of
Rp 210 and Rp 105 in the two areas, respectively. The horizontal segment to
the right of Point C indicates that at a wage of Rp 250 in CirePon/Rentang
and Rp 125 in Sampean Baru, large numbers of farm laborers would
be attracted to the project areas from outside.
6.        The monthly marginal opportunity cost may be read directly from
the curve at the appropriate level of labor demand. The total economic
cost of labor is then the area under the curve up to that level of employ-
ment. Computed this way, the economic cost of labor would be Rp 5,505 mil-
lion with the project at full development and Rp 4,552 million without the
project, or an incremental cost of Rp 953 million in Cirebon/Rentang, and
Rp 154 million with and Rp 40 million without the project, or an incre-
mental cost of Rp 114 million in Sampean Baru. 'fnis would be equivalent to
pricing the incremental employment of 8.4 million man-days per year in
Cirebon/Rentang at a shadow wage of Rp 113 per man-day, and the incremental
employment of 2.2 million man-days per year in Sampean Baru at a shadow
wage of Rp 52 per man-day.
Project Costs
7.        Capital costs amount to US$43.6 million for Cirebon, US$35.5 mil-
lion for Rentang and US$17.5 million for Sampean BIaru, including physical
contingencies but not costs due to expected price increases. Operation
and maintenance costs include those for irrigation, drainage, project roads
and agricultural services.
Development Period
8.        Project benefits would begin with completion of tertiary canal
systems and structures. According to the project implementation schedules,
construction of tertiaries for the Cirebon systems would begin in mid
1976-77 and continue througlh 1980-81. For Rentang the completed area would
begin in mid 1975-76 and continue to increase through 1979-80.  For Sampean



ANNEX 10
Page 3
Baru, the first irrigated areas would be completed in 1977-78 and the
entire 9,400 ha would be served by 1979-80. It has been assumed that full
development yield levels would be reached over five years from the year of
completion in the Cirebon and Rentang areas, and over six years in the
Sampean Baru area. Thus full development production is assumed in 1984-85
for Rentang, and 1985-86 for Cirebon and Sampean Baru.
Project Benefits
9.        Project benefits are taken as the incremental net value of
production after deducting the inputed cost of farm labor. It was assumed
that production would increase 1% per annum (or about 10% to full development,
without the project. This is derived in Table 4 for the three project areas.
Economic Rate of Return
10.       Using the foregoing assumptions and discounting project costs and
benefits over a 50 year project life, the economic rate of return is
estimated to be 38% for Cirebon, 44% for Rentang and 17.5% for Sampean Baru
(Table 5). If a 30 year life is used, there is no change in the percentages.
Sensitivity Analysis
11.       Several of the basic assumptions made in the economic analysis
have been varied in order to examine their impact on the rates of return.
The effects of the various assumptions are as follows:
Assumption                      Cirebon  Rentang  Sampean Baru
--%- …-                     - ---
(a)  Full employment wage rate                36        42          16
(b)  Shadow wage rate of zero                 42        47          19
(c) Full development delayed by four
years                                  30       32.         15
(d)  Benefits decreased by 25%                28        30          14
(e)  Construction cost increased by 15%    31           38          15
and benefits slipped according to
cost overrun
12.       The foregoing results show little sensitivity to the assumptions
made in costing labor and moderate sensitivity to the rate of agricultural
development and the level of benefits attained. These results indicate that
high priority must be given to agricultural extension and the timely provision
of sufficient farm inputs, particularly fertilizers.



ANNEX 10
Table 1
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Comodity Price Structure, 1974 and 1985
(Rp or US$/ton at constant 1974 prices)
1974                  1985
Rp/ton    US$/ton     Rp/ton    US$/ton
Rice
Ecport price Thai 25%-35% broken
fob Bangkok                                  186,300    45o        78,660       190
Ocean Freight Bangkok-Jakarta                  7,450     18         7,450        18
Port Handling Jakarta                          2,500      6         2,500         6
Transport Jakarta to Cirebon                   6,300     15         6,300        15
Price milled rice, Cirebon                   20Z,55                94i.,910    2
Paddy Equivalent price, Cirebon (0.62)       125,600    303        58 800       142
Milling costs less value of by-products      - 3,5003
Transport Farm to Mill                       - 2J500    -6         -2 500       - 6
Farm gate price of paddy                     119,600    2T         5,79
(Financial farm gate price)2!             (40',oo0)  (97)
Soybean
Export Price of bean fob U.S.                110,100    266        83,200       201
Freight US - Jakarta                          26,900     65        26,900        65
Port Handling Jakarta                          2 500      6         2,500         6
Price of bean, Jakarta                       1                    112,600       =7
Transport, Cirebon-Jakarta                   - 6,300    -15       - 6,300       -15
Transport, farm-Cirebon                      - 2,500    - 6       - 2 500       - 6
Farm gate price of soybean                   J3O1700    T2T       1,0-
Sugarcane
Export price fob Caribbean                  191,700    463         82,000       198
Ocean freight Caribbean-Jakarta               26,900     65        26,900        65
Port Handling Jakarta                          2 500      6         2 500         6
Price of sugar, Jakarta                      22 0                 111,400       2
Transport,project area-Jakarta               - 6,300    -15       - 6,300       -15
Processing and cane transport                -20,800    -50       -20 800       -50
Farm gate price of cane per ton sugar        194,000    77         64,300       TOT
Farm gate price of sugar cane (0.10)          19,400     47         8,400        20
1/ Financial prices lower than economic prices for outputs and inputs in 1974 reflect
Government policy to keep food prices low internally in the face of record high world
market prices. It is assumed that as world market prices fall in real terms according
to Bank commodity price forecasts, distortions between internal and world prices will
be eliminated.



ANNE= 10
Table 1
Page 2
Corn
Export price fob Bangkok                      45,54o    110         38,500        93
Ocean Freight Bankok-Surabaya                  8,280      20         8,280        20
Port handling Surabaya                         2,500       6         2 500         6
Price of corn, Surabaya                       56,3Zo    iII 49,Zo                M
Transport Bondowoso to Surabaya              - 5,000    -12        - 5,000       -12
Transport farm to Bondowoso                  - 1,650    - 4        - 1,650       - 4
Farm gate price of corn                       49,670    i55         4Z,630
(Financial farm gate price) 1/             (46,000)  (110)
Cotton
Price of lint cif Liverpool                  641,700  1,550        455,400    1,100
Transport US-Surabaya less US-Liverpool       35,200      85        35,200        85
Port handling Surabya                          3,300       8         3 300         8
Price of cotton, Surabaya          6     0      0,200 493,U                    1,930
Transport project area to Surabaya           - 5,000  -  12        - 5,000    -  12
Ginning Cost                                 -25,000  -  60        -25,000    - 60
Transport farm to ginning factory            - 2 500  -   6        - 2 500    -   6
Farm gate price of cotton per ton of lint   61,565                 461,400    1,115
Farm gate price of seed cotton (0.35)
allowing for value of seeds                244,000    590        178,000       430
Urea
Export price fob Tokyo                       103,500    250         45,600       111
Transport Tokyo - Jakarta                      6,200      15         6,200        15
Port handling, Jakarta                         2 500       6         2 500         6
Price of urea, Jakarta                       112,200    271                    -1317
Transport, Jakarta - Cirebon                   6,200      15         6,200        15
Transport, Cirebon to farm                     2 000       5         2 000         5
Farm gate price of urea                                  291                     150
(Financial farm gate price) 1/             (40,000)  (97)
1/ Financial prices lower than economic prices for outputs and inputs in 1974 reflect
Government policy to keep food prices law internally in the face of record high world
market prices. It is assumed that as world market prices fall in real terms according
to Bank commodity price forecasts, distortions between internal and world prices will
be eliminated.



ANNEX 10
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Total Monthly Labor Require-sents (mao-days'000)1/
Area (ha)        Jan        Feb       Mar        Apr        May       -Jon        Juo        Awg       8ep        Oct        Nov        Dec         Total
Cirebon end Rentang Irrination Syste-s
Wct Seae.n
Local Variety Paddy       /          77,000       2,772        35       1,155      3,00         385                                                            1,155      3,003      11,935
W            77,000        2,772       462      1,309      3,080        770        -          -         -          -          -        1,155      3,003       12,551
14           21,000          756        210       420        945        315        -         -          _          _          _          315        819        3,780
MYV Paddy              P            96,000        5,088        960      1,920      4,320        480       -          -          _          -          _        1,440      3,744       17,952
W            96,000        5,088        960     2,400      4,320      1,248        _          _         _          _          _        1,440      3,744       19,200
W          152,000         8,360     1,976      4,560      7,600      2,280        -          -         _                              2,280      5,928       32,984
Secondary Crepe        p             1,500           -         -          -          -          -         -          -           30         23         15         15         30          113
5             1,500          -          -         -          -          -          -          -           37        23         18         20         37          135
W             1,500          -          -         -          -          -          -          -           37        37         23         23         45          165
Dry S..aon
RYV Paddy              P            35,000          -          -          -          -          525     1,365      1,925        525        560      1,400        350        -          6,650
W            35,000          -          -         _          _          525      1,365     1,925        595        630      1,575        455        -          7,070
W           44,000           -         -          -          -          660      1,716     2,640        792        880      2,420        660        -          9,768
Sugar Cane             P             7,500           52         52        128        398        735       750        578        345        180        128         52         52        3,450
W             7,500           52         52       128        413        773        825       600        345        180        128         52         52        3,600
14            7,500           75         75       172        413        817        825        652       398        248        150         75         75        3,975
Secoedary Crops        P            19,500          -          -          -          -          683       292        195        195        585        -          -          -          1,950
W            19,500          -          -         -          -          684        390        293        293       604        -          -          -          2,344
W            201000                                                     800        400        300        300       000        -          - _                   2.600
Total                p           236,500        7,912      1,397      3,203     7,798      2,808      2,407      2,698      1,095      1,348      1,543      3,012     6,829       42,050
W           236,500        7,912     1,474      3,837      7,813      4,000      2,580     2,818      1,270      1,517      1,721      3,122      6,836       44,900
W           246,000        9,191     2,261      5,152      8,958      4,872      2,941     3,592      1,527      1,965      2,593      3,353      6,867       53,272
Sampson Bar- Irrigation Systma
We.- Season
Local Variety Paddy   P              2,000            72        10         30         80         10        -         -          -          -          -           30         78          310
W             2,000           72         12        34         80         20        -          -          -         -          -           30         78          326
W4                           -        -         --           -_-_                                _          ___-__-                                 -
RYV Paddy              P
14             -             -          -         -          -          -          --                    ------
W             7,500          412         98       225        375        113        -          -         -          -          -          113        292        1,628
Corn                   P             2,500            33        30         62        -          -          -         -          -          -          -           50         50          225
W             2,500           33         30         70       -          -          -          -          -         -          -           50         55          238
W             1,900           29         25         70       -          -          -          -          -         -          -           38         57          219
Cassava/               P             2,000            12       -          -            4          8          8          8       -          -          _          _           20           60
W             2,000           12        -         -            4          8          8          8       -          -          -          -           30           60
Sty Season
Consave                P             1,300             4       -          -           22         14        -         -            4          9          9          5        -             67
W             1,300            4        -         -           22         14        -          -            4          9         9          5        -             67
Secondary Crepe        P               600          -          -          -            6         15          9         6          6         18        -          -          -             60
W               600          -          -         -            6         15         12          8          7        21        -          -          -             69
14            8,600          -          -         -           86        258        172        129        129       344        -          -          -          1,118
Cotton (S8ed)          P               400           -         -          -           16          8          4          3         3          4         10        _          _             48
W               400          -          -         -           16          8          4          4          4          4        11        -          -             51
W               400          -          -          _          16          8          6          6          6          6        18        _          -             66
Total                P             8,800          121         40         92        128         55         21        17         13         31         19         85        148          770
W             8,800          121         42       104        128         65         24         20         15         34         20        85        153          811
W            18,400          441        123       295        477        379        178        135        135        350        18        151        349        3,031
I/ Derived from A=-ee 9, Table 2.
2/  P = Present, 4 - Peters vithoot project, W = PFtore with project.
3/ Cassava interplanted with corn,



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Economic Cost of Farm Labor at Full Project Development
Jan      Feb      Mar      Apr       May      Jun      Jul       Aug      Sep      Oct      Nov     Dec       Total
Cirebon and Rentang Irrigation Systems
Labor Requirement             W 1/        9.2      2.3       5.2      9.0      4.9       2.9      3.6      1.5       2.0      2.6     3.4      6.9      53.3
(million man-days)           W            7.9      1.5      3.8       7.8      4.0      2.6       2.8      1.3      1.5       1.7     3.1     6.8       44.9
Marginal Opportunity          W           140      102       104      135      103       102      102       101      101      102      102     105
Cost (Rp/man-day)            W            120      101       103      117      103       102      102      101       101      101     102      105
Economic Cost of Farm         W           977      232       530      947      497       293      364      151       201      263      343     707      5,505
Labor (Rp million)                        808      151       386      792      406       263      283      131       151      171     313      697      4,552
Incremental Economic
Cost of Farm Labor
(Rp million)               W-W            169       81      144       155       91       30        81       20       50        92      30       10        953
Sampean Baru Irrigation System
Labor Requirement            W            0.4      0.1       0.3      0.5      0.4       0.2      0.1      0.1       0.3       *      0.2      0.4      3.0
(million man-days)           W            0.1      0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       * 2/      *        *        *         *      0.1      0.2      0.8
Marginal Opportunity          W            53        50       52       54        53       51       50        50       52       -        51      53
Cost (Rp/man-day)            W             50       50        50       50       50        -        -         -        -        -        50      51
Economic Cost of Farm         W            21        5        15       26       21        10        5         5       15       -        10      21         154
Labor (Rp million)                          5        5         5        5         5       -        -         -        -        -         5      10         40
Incremental Economic
Cost of Farm Labor
(Rp million)               W-W             16       -         10       21       16        10        5        5        15       -        5       11        114
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___                      o  z
1/ W = Future with project.  W = Future without project                                                                                                          X x
2/  * less than 0.05                                                                                                                                               o



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Economic Analysis-Net Value of Production at Full Project Development
Net Return from                  Less Imputed                Net Value                   Incremental
Project Area                     Cost of Farm                  of                         Net Value
Without Costing                    Labor 2/                  Production                      of
Irrigation System                 Farm Labor 1/                                                                            Production
(Rp million)                     (Rp million)                (Rp million)           (Rp million)    (US$ million)
W3/               W              W               W           W               W            W-W             W-W
Cirebon                    16,281          25,465             2,276          2,752        14,005        22,713         8,709           21,000
Rentang                    13,480          22,442             2,276          2,753        11,204        19,689         8,485           20,500
Sampean Baru                  322           2,293                40            154           282         2,139         1,857            4,500
1/ "with" project conditions from Annex 1, "without" project conditions are based on an assumed 1%
1/ annual increase in yield from 1975 to 1985.
2/ From Annex 10, Table 3. Labor cost for Cirebon and Rentang systems has been allocated on an area basis.
3/ W   Future without project, W = Future with project.
rXI
0 



ANNEX 10
Table 5
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
Economic Costs and Benefits
(US$ o000)
Irrigation System     Year                    Costs                  Benefits-
Capital     0 & M      Total
Cirebon:               1       1,700        180        1,880            0
2      5,,900       220        6,120         1,350
3      10,100       270        10,370       4,220
4      10,400       360        10,760       6,330
5      10,500       440       10,940        10,130
6       9,300       560        9,860        14,350
7          0        560          560        16,880
8          0        560          560       17,935
9          0        560          560       18,990
10          0        560          560       20,045
11-50          0        560          560       21,000
Economic Rate of Return: 38%
Rentang:                1      3,400        200        3,600        1,640
2      8,900        240        9,140        3,280
3     15,200        280       15,480        4,100
4      8,500        370        8,870        8,200
5       2,900       460        3,360       13,120
6        200        580          780        16,400
7          0        580          580        17,425
8          0        580          580        18,450
9          0        580          580        19,475
10-50          0        580          580       20,500
Economic Rate of Return: 44%
Sampean-Baru:          1       1,100         20        1,120            0
2      4,800         25        4,825            0
3       7,100        30         7,130         330
4      3,700         40        3,740         1,250
5       2,400        50        2,450        2,150
6         100        65           165       3,300
7          0         65           65        3,520
8          0         65           65        3,740
9          0         65           65        3',960
10          0         65           65        4,180
_l-50          0         65           65        4,500
Economic Rate of Return: 17.5%
1/ Incremental Net Value of Production from Table 4.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
ESTIMATED OPPORTUNITY COST CURVE FOR FARM LABOR
CIREBON AND RENTANG
< 250r
LL
0~
o                     521015 -
I-
0
C)
0 10 50
n
C-
o  00
0L
0                 5                 10                15                 20
FARM LABOR DEMAND (MILLION MAN-DAYS/MONTH)
SAMPEAN BARU
I.  10             __ __
I00
O    50
< 25r
0                0,5                1.0               1.5                2.0
FARM LABOR DEMAND (MILLION MAN-DAYS/MONTH)
World Bank-9303



INDONESIA
I RRI GATION PROJECTS VI AND VI II
WATER RESOURCES ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTER OF PUBLIC WORKS
AND ELECTRIC POWER
DIRECTOR-GENERAL OFl
|WTRRESOURCES DEVELOPMENT|
_|AGENERAL    lSECRETARIATE
CONSULTANTSll
IR E         O             D                      DIRECTORATE OF          DIRECTORATE OF           INSTITUTE OF
IVDIRECTORATE OF         DIRECTORATE             PLANNING AND            LOGISTICS AND            HYDRAULIC
RIVERS &SWAMPS          OF IRRIGATION           PROGRAMMING             PROCUREMENT              ENGINEERING
JATIGEDE
DAM                                                       PROSI DA
GROUP
World Bank-8963



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
PROSIDA MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
AGR;;CULTI URAL EXTENS;GN bI'JNtJ                        GEINERAL        -l _       ADVISORY GROUP
ADVISOR                                              PROSIDA
I    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~   ~~~~PROJECTMANAGER jCONSULTAN!TSEA_
mm  _1_m           _ -                  _  __------ -    _--l-                    ; - m ~   ADVISER               1CONSULTNTS 
J ~~~~~~~rCONULTANTS C
PROJECT AGRICULTURALSERVICES   *              AGRICULTURAL                  I DEPUTY GENERAL                       I                      CLT
]    CONSULTANTS    I                   MANAGER
ASST FIONANE   ||ASST OLN.AFFRS           AST PLANER          ASST CONTRUCTION           A SERIS               B SEIE                  SEIE                DSERIE
|  1 1     |      2/                |     ~~~     ~     ~ ~~          ~~3f  --      41       DESIGN STAFF (HQ AND SUB PROJECTS)
S    *  ~~Al                                                      F                                                                                                               LOGISTICS--tn 
L4 =i   L4                                     SUBAPROECT C |  SUB PROJECT DJ                                                                                                       STAFF
SUB PROJECTS -…A
KEY
I   NEW                     E
F UNCVTVI ONI
1/=CREDIT 127 -IND SUB PROJECTS (INCLUDES RENTANG)
21 - CREDIT 220 -IND SUB PROJECTS
3/ - CREDIT 289 -IND SUB PROJECTS (INCLUDES SAMPEAN BARU
4/D CIREBON IRRIGATION REHABILITATION SUB PROJECT
World B..k-8965



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
PROSIDA SUB-PROJECT ORGANIZATION
FOR CIREBON, RENTANG AND PEKALEN-SAMPEAN (SAMPEAN BARU)
[    SUB-PROJECT     ..uhm..u.m.uumugu.ummmmuuuuuuumuuaummmmufhm    PROVINCIAL
MANAGER       j                                    ADVISORY GROUP
f  I                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2/1
CONSULTING                                          DEPUTY SUB-PROJECT
[ ENGINEERS   |                                            MANAGER
DEPUTY  0 &< M                                                                                                   DEPUTY
2/               2/                                                      2/               2/
SURVEY &         -        _           EHNCL 
DESIGN        CONSTRUCTION             UNIT        ADMINISTRATION       FINANCE        COMPTROLLER
0 & M SECTIONS
CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISORS
1/ PROVINCIAL STAFF
2/ PROSIDA STAFF                                                                                                       World Bank-8964
Wol  ak86



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
CIREBON IRRIGATION SYSTEMS
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
ALL AREAS BY SYSTEMS                                           INDONESIAN FISCAL YEAR
WORKS                       1975-76       1976-77       1977-78        1978-79       1979-80      1980-81 1/
DESiGN AND PLANNING                   APR. 1
TENDER DOCUMENTS                                JAN. 1
HEAD WORKS AND WEIRS                                APR. 1
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY CANALS                        APFR. 1
TERTIARY CANAL SYSTEMS AND STRUCTURES                      OCT. 1
DRAINAGE AND FLOOD BANKS                                   OCT I
CAMP, OFFICES AND BUILDINGS                          Al R. 1
RURAL ROADS AND INSPECTION ROADS                    APR. 1
REHABILITATION AREA COMPLETED                             7,000 Ha      26,000 Ha     20,000 Ha      22,000 Ha     13,000 Ha
ANNUALLY                   ~3uMUu3hI..mu.smh  mhuhuIEm  h.u.EummEEIuEuuE
1/ INDONESIAN FISCAL YEAR APRIL 1 TO MARCH 31
World Bank-8960



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
RENTANG IRRIGATION SYSTEM
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE - ADDITIONAL WORKS
INDONESIAN FISCAL YEAR
WORKS
R_ NTANG BARRAGE                      I   1975-76        1976-77       1977-78       1978-79        1979-80
IRENTANG BARRAGE
DESIGN AND PLANNING                APR 1
ACCESS ROADS                                JAN 1
JAN. 1
TENDER DOCUMENT FOR BARRAGE
RIVER DIVERSION WORKS AND                             JULY 1
TAIL RACE CHANNEL                                                A
MAIN BARRAGE                                                     APR I
HEAD WORKS AND BASIN                                             APR 1
FORE BAY LEVEE                                                   APR 1
It TERTIARY CANAL SYSTEMS AND STRUCTURES
OCT. 1
AREA REHABILITATED ANNUALLY
5,000 Ha   21,000 Ha    21,000 Ha     22,000 Ha      21,000 Ha
APR. 1
III COASTAL AREA DRAINAGE WORKS        Al_R_1
(IN PROGRESS UNDER
CREDIT 127-IND)
A'R. 1   4,700 Ha-|               3,400 Ha     19,000 Ha       5,800 Ha     I
DRAINAGE AREA REHABILITATED ANNUALLY 1APR111?0111a111  ..1         l              *fl.......,..   IEgEIEhIU J
WAkorld Bank 8g



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
SAMPEAN BARU IRRIGATION SYSTEM
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
INDONESIAN FISCAL YEAR
WORKS
1975-76       1976-77       1977-78       1978-79       1979-80
DESIGN AND PLANNING           APR. 
PRELIMINARY WORKS-AND SURVEY APR. 1
BORING AND ACCESS ROAD TO DAM
DEC. 1
MAIN DAM TENDER DOCUMENTS
MAIN DAM WORKS                              APR 1
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY CANALS             JAN. 1
TENDER DOCUMENTS
CONSTRUCTION                                 R.    _
TERTIARY CANAL SYSTEMS AND                                 AR 1
STRUCTURES - AREA COMPLETEp                                APR._I
ANNUALLY                                                        (3700 Ha)     (2700 Ha)      (3300 Ha)
APR. 1
LAND LEVELING AND SHAPING
ROADS-I NSPECTI ON AND ACCESS                        _
World Bank--8962



INDINESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
SAMPEAN BARU IRRIGATION SYSTEM
CROP CALENDAR AND WATER REGUIREMENTS
DEC         JAN          FES         MAR          APR           MAY        JUNE         JULY         AUG          SEPT         OCT         NOV
1/       :                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~HARVEST
PADDY- 1,t BLOCK -25%          D.PR. -                                      -      _w               -                                      -            -
SEEDBED 11 LAND PREP     .
PADDY - 2nd BLOCK - 25%
PADDY - 3rd BLOCK - 25%                   -   ,
PADDY - 4h BLOCK - 25%
2/                         PLANT                                         HARVEST                                                                                        LAND PREP
CORN-                               sw-                                              -
SOYABEANS                                                                                  w       flw.           __
PREP & PLANT                                                              HARVEST
COTTON                                                                                                    -  -------
t=Air temperature at Assam-
bagus - C°                       26.2         25.6         25,7        25.9         26,3         26.2         25.9        25.5         25.9         26,7         27.1        27.0
Kt=0.0311t + 0.24                     1.05        1,03         1.04         1.05        1.06         1.05         1.05        1.03         1.05         1.07         1.08         1.08
p for 8  S Latitude                   8.84        8.79         7.84         8.51        8.11         8.24         7.91        8.13         8.32         8.18         8.62         8.47
f=p(45.7t + 813) x 0.01            177.7        174.3        153,7       169.9        163.4        165.6        157.9       160.8        166.1        166.3        176.8       173.4
K0 -(Paddy - b.hle area)              0.08        0.69         1.16         1.25        5.84         -
K, p;- S   be=ens                                                                                    0.24         0.92        0.96         0.40         0.75         1.00         0.60
Paddy
ai-Kt x KP                        0.0S         0.71         1.21         1.31        0.89
Soyaheans
K2=Kt x Kcp1                                                                                      0.25         0.97        0.99         0.42         0.80         1.08        0.65
Up-Ka f - in a,,                     14         124          186          223         145
Upl=K2  f - in m                                                                                    41          153         159           70          133          191          113
Seed Bed aed Land Preparation
in rm                           120           80            _           _
Water Required for Paddy and
Polowijo - .me                  134          204          186         223          145           41          153         159           70          133          191         113
Effe-tive Rainfall Re0 neadand
.esidual Field  1n0atare 3/      64          105           84          79           62           25           25          25            -
Irrigation Requirements at
Farm - -m                        70           99          102         144           83           16          128         134           70          133          191         113
Cropped Area -                          …            … -------- - -   9,800 ha  Peddy>     . ......... > C . _ -------- -  8,820 ha  586yo_an_   -- 4 … 2,450 F:a  so5CbeaD-s -_________
Volume of Water Required at
Farm - Mm3                        6.86         9,70        10.00        14.J1        8.13         1.41        11.29       11.82         5.80         3.26        4.68         2.77
Q Required at Farm m3/s..             2.56        3.65         4.13         5.27        3.14         0.53         4.36        4.41         2.17         1.26         1.75        1.07
Overall Irrigation Efficiency       55           50           50          50           55           55           60          60           60           60           60          55
Diversion Requirement Q-n /sec       4.65         7.24         8.a6        10.54        5.71         0.96         7.27        7.35         3.62         2.10         2.92        1.95
1/ Staggered paddy planting at 10 day Sntervals.
2/ Crap oalendar 'n accordan Ae a r#)O  1,
D/ Dependable rainfall 8 in 10 years.  MAq, Juve aqsd Julr re8idual a.oisture 25 mle.
I/ Water requiremnta baced on worat cond5 ioip of full rea to paddy and two dry esason crops.
Modified Blaney-Criddle Formule
U = Kf                                                       f = Monthly consumptive-use factor                                                    World Sank 8966
Where:  U = Consumptive-use of the crop 'in e                           = p(45.7t + 813) x 0.01 (metric unit)
K = Empirical consumptive-use crop coefficient               p - Monthly percentage of daylight hours
= Kt x Kc                                                      in the year
Xt = A clinatic coefficient which is related to               U   (0.0311t + 0.24) Kc x p(45.7t + 813) x 0.01 e
the mean air temperature (t in OC)
= 0.0311t + 0.24 (metric unit)
Kc = A coefficient reflecting the growth stage
of the crop



IBRD 2-2711
/                      I         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I AUGUST 1974
poE                                                           I I2 1E    INDONESIA                                          I I-E                                                            0 /  20-
IRRIGATION PROJECTS VI AND VIII
LOCATION MAP                                                                 M a k a s s a r
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT nI V - Executed y Jhtiluhur Authority                     -
. IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT Itrait                                                                          SU lAW E SI
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT ]H  Executed by Prsida
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT IV                                                                                 (CELEBES)
BAN  KA                  BELITUNG                                                           IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT VI
OPImcg                                                 tu~tJATIGEDE DAM   PROJECT  Viii- ecednrDcatoRer   <
B,                                                                   - .    S' .',, '.'. GROUNDWATER EXPLORATION PROJECT                                                               t 
EU  A TE R A                                                                      ,'    ' . FUTURE MADIUN  IRRIGATION   REHABILITATION                             A
5 U M  A T E R A t                                                                                       | | *  RAILWAYS                                 KALIMAN  TAN                                                    xSA                   r-
4;5  5uEYpSHEoPJUETCT    9                                                                             (                       U   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SB PROJECT   \VV
WAYl SEPUI                                                                                                                                                                                                            4,0EB-2fN                     4'5S
25,000 hx                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PB:   eRP:   aB  ::    y1  
W0y SPpuEB                                                    Ja           a             e
OJnETTHRURI1I  Sukadof o   1W;;N;                                                                                                                                                                                         UjEne PanbgEHR
SBIJB-HOJCT
Tnlxkbnlung       24,300 BR     ClE0ANE       JA-TILUIVR PROJECT
MALA?$IA                                                                                                                        {JeH       - iAat a toPR%GiET  GLAPAN-SEiAI
L ALIMATA                 -        -                                                                        4EMAL- IAL  ot4
Lob-'r> m-g 1                 r SUL WES   ElAN        -   123;OjQiX                           .    BOP WATE  STQDf:A                 gE;O;rr
Indian   Oca eaaA ¾       N                         IY -- 0b 00                                         tRO
JAVAs        -CDeb             EaFtT. TltCDR                                    tiLOtdETEurS :EUMBA M
'    P0RTI,IjlOR : >bl^1                                                                                           [                                                                                                     : R E S
URG   ,IJRALIA                                                      ifE  2NE                                                                                                                      IO-E






ISRD- 10867
SEPTEMBER 197A
INDONEStA
IRRIGATION  PROJECTS Vl AND VIII
J a v a        S e a                        ". cD4Zffrxtr               X              CREBON AND RENTANG IRRIGATION SYSTEMS
JATIGEDE DAM AND fUTURE PHASES OF IRRIGATION
v--  Wews lintakes _n Canesals
lrnIot Bon ShareBunare
; > 0 00Pr oinoal Rotds
F-al Roads
1<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
NO.w Drain
Rv~~   B   ON      "                   -                /   K            LoRser
IAIX  SCA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o.Sts
'' -wAn*Iu.  ].9              ._
/h'D/N   OCEAN100100
IPA0'S'li-D                                                                                                  






IBRD 11197
G                                                                                   1 t.:                                                               ...... A$                           OCTOBER 1974
-7-4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
vS/D \ v' ?, ,~~&                                                                                                9;'', I...t                         It  ,  -  -t TA)fR=-z=
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
I NDONES IA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI
PROPOSED SAMPEAN  BARU  IRRIGATION  SCHEME
EXISTING IRRIGATION AREAS
PROPOSED IRRIGATION AREAS
PRAJEKAN, 2200 ho.
771PANJI, 1500 ho,
ASEMBAGUS                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ASEMRAGI.S, 6100 ho..
-PROPOSED MAIN CANAL
PROPOSED SECONDARY CANALS
- RIVERS
ROADS
-4-04-RAILROADS
DISTRICT ROUNDAR ES
K I LOMETERS



