CONFORMED COPY
0
LOAN NUMBER 1100 IND
Loan Agreement
(Sixth Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
0
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED APRIL 10, 1975
0O


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1100 IND
Loan Agreement
(Sixth Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED APRIL 10, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 10, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "DGWRD" means the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development of the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works and Electric Power;
(b)   "PROSIDA" means Proyek Irigasi IDA, an executive body within
DGWRD;
(c)   "Prior Development Credit Agreements" means the development credit
agreement (Irrigation Rehabilitation Project) dated September 6, 1968; the
development credit agreement (Second Irrigation Rehabilitation Project) dated
June 15, 1970; the development credit agreement (Third Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project) dated November 6, 1970; the development credit agreement (Fourth
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project) dated March 9, 1972, and the development credit
agreement (Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension Project) dated October 3, 1974, all
between the Borrower and the Association;
(d)   "Groundwater Group" means the Groundwater Group within DGWRD;
(e)   "cusecs" means cubic feet per second;


﻿4
(f)   "Cirebon Irrigation Systems" means an irrigation area (daerah) of about
89,000 hectares surrounding the volcano, Gunung Ciremai, along the north coast
of the Province of West Java;
(g)   "Rentang Irrigation System" means an irrigation area (daerah) of about
92,000 hectares extending north and west of the Cirebon Irrigation Systems along
the north coast of the Province of West Java;
(h)   "Sampean Baru Irrigation System" means ail irrigation area (daerah)
of about 9,800 hectares to the north of the Sampean Baru Primary Canal along
the north coast of the Province of East Java;
(i)   "Project Area" means the areas comprising the Cirebon Irrigation
Systems, the Rentang Irrigation System and the Sampean Baru Irrigation System;
(j)   "Madiun Irrigation Systems" means an irrigation area (daerah) of about
130,000 hectares surrounding the City of Madiun in the Province of East Java;
(k)   "North Sadang Irrigation System" means an irrigation area (daerah)
of about 6,500 hectares to the north of the Sadang River in the Province of South
Sulawesi; and
(1)   "IPEDA " means Iuran Pembangunan Daerah, contributions for regional
development collected from owners of land, established and operating under Law
No. 1l/PRP/1959 of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixty-five million dollars ($65,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described 'n Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out


﻿5
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or such later date
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly inform the Borrower of such
later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III.
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural,
economic, engineering and financial practices, as follows:
(i)        PROSIDA will carry out Parts A(l), (2), (3), (5), (6), Part B,
Part C(l) through (5) and (7), Part D, Part G and Part I(1)
of the Project;
(ii)       the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture will carry out Part E,
Part H, Part 1(2) and Part J of the Project;
(iii)      PROSIDA, in cooperation with the Public Works Service of the
Provincial Governments of West and East Java, as appropriate,
will carry out Part A(4) and Part C(6) of the Project;
(iv)       the Groundwater Group in DGWRD will carry out Part F(4)
of the Project; and


﻿6
(v)         DGWRD will carry out Parts F(1), (2) and (3) of the Project.
The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without restricting its obligations under paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient liquid funds to cover the budgeted
expenditures estimated by PROSIDA, DGWRD and the Borrower's Ministry of
Agriculture to be required for their respective Parts of the Project during each
quarter shall be made available to PROSIDA, DGWRD and the Borrower's Ministry
of Agriculture, respectively, not later than fifteen days after the first day of each
such quarter.
Section 3.02. Within three months of the date of this Agreement, or such
other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, in order to
assist the Borrower in the preparation of plans, designs, specifications and contract
documents for the civil works included in Parts A, B, C and E(l), and wherever
necessary, Part H of the Project and in the supervision of the construction thereof,
in carrying out the studies included in Part F of the Project, and in implementing
the overseas and local training programs included in Part I of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. Within six months of the date of this Agreement, or such
other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower
shall employ the following advisors whose qualifications, experience and 'terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank:
(i)         an advisor to assist PROSIDA in improving the management and
organization of PROSIDA and in strengthening the operation
and maintenance capabilities of Provincial Government staff;
(ii)        an advisor to assist the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture in
carrying out Part J of the Project;
(iii)       a soil conservation advisor to assist the Borrower's Ministry of
Agriculture in carrying out Part H of the Project;
(iv)        an agricultural planning and management advisor to assist the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture in preparing the agricultural
development program referred to in Section 3.10 of this
Agreement; and


﻿7
(v)         two advisors on drainage and river problems to assist PROSIDA
in carrying out Part B(2) of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall through PROSIDA and its appropriate local agencies: (i) guide
and direct farmers in completing the civil works on each tertiary irrigation and
drainage canal system, and on the quaternary canals related thereto, included in
Parts A, B, and C of the Project; (ii) cause the civil works on each such tertiary
irrigation and drainage canal system to be completed within twelve months after
the first fifty meters of each such tertiary system have been rehabilitated or
constructed by the Borrower; and (iii) to the extent that farmers fail to carry
out such civil works themselves, complete such civil works.
(b)   Without restricting   its obligations under Section     4.05  of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that adequate credit and agricultural inputs
(including fertilizers and agricultural chemicals) are made available to farmers in
each tertiary and quaternary network to be rehabilitated or constructed under Parts
A, B and C of the Project as soon as each such tertiary and quaternary network
is completed and begins operation.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods


﻿8
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   The accounts of PROSIDA, the Groundwater Group and the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, which are to be kept pursuant to the provisions
of Section 4.02 of this Agreement, shall be audited each fiscal year in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, the Bank shall be furnished with
certified copies of such accounts for such year as so audited and the report of
such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out Parts A, B, C, D(2), E(1)
and H of the Project.
Section 3.08. Until the completion of the Project:
(a)   The Borrower shall cause PROSIDA to be at all times adequately
staffed with qualified and competent personnel under the supervision of a
competent and experienced General Manager, and, to that end, the Borrower shall
continue to strengthen PROSIDA's staff.
(b)   Before making any new appointment to the position of General
Manager of PROSIDA, the Borrower shall inform the Bank of the names,
qualifications and experience of the persons considered for such appointment and
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower
on the qualifications and experience of such persons.
(c). Without limitation on the obligations of the Borrower under paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall employ in PROSIDA for each of the Irrigation
Systems included in the Project Area a qualified and competent Sub-project Manager
and on a full-time basis a qualified and competent Deputy Sub-project Manager,
shall cause such officials to be vested with all necessary powers and authorities,
and shall charge such Sub-project Manager, and in his absence his Deputy
Sub-project Manager, with full responsibility for the rehabilitation and development,
and the operation and maintenance during construction, of each such Irrigation
System.


﻿9
(d)   The Borrower shall cause PROSIDA to cooperate closely with the
agencies of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture responsible for agricultural
support services.
(e)   The Borrower shall employ on a full-time basis a qualified and
competent person to serve in its Ministry of Agriculture as director to supervise
the agricultural development program referred to in Section 3.10 of this Agreement
and shall appoint a qualified and competent person to serve in the area of the
Cirebon Irrigation Systems as project manager responsible for agricultural support
services.
(f)   The Borrower shall cause PROSIDA to operate and maintain the
Irrigation Systems constructed under the Project until the Provincial Governments
of East and West Java, as appropriate, assume responsibility therefor.
Section 3.09. Within twenty-four months of the date of this Agreement,
or such other period as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, the
Borrower shall have constructed the agricultural development center referred to
in Part E(l) of the Project; thereafter, the Borrower shall employ therein such
numbers of qualified and competent staff as may be required for the effective
carrying out of the agricultural extension, research and training activities of said
center under the Project.
Section 3.10. Within twelve months of the date of this Agreement, or such
other period as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower
shall, through its Ministry of Agriculture, prepare and submit to the Bank for its
review and comments an agricultural development program for the improvement
of agricultural production in the Project Area and thereafter, shall implement said
program pursuant to the time schedule set forth therein.
Section 3.11. Within twelve months of the date of this Agreement, or such
other period as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower
shall, through its Ministry of Agriculture and PROSIDA, prepare and submit to
the Bank for its review and comments prior to the commencement of
implementation the program for carrying out Part I of the Project.
Section 3.12. Within six months of the date of this Agreement, or such
other period as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower
shall through its Ministry of Agriculture prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan
for the carrying out of Part J of the Project.


﻿10
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, reaization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its poitical or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no          -
cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term  "public assets" means assets of the
Borrower, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause all canals, structures, roads,
equipment and other facilities of the irrigation systems included in the Project


﻿11
Area to be operated and maintained by the Provincial Governments of West and
East Java, as appropriate, and all such repairs and renewals thereof to be made
from time to time and in accordance with appropriate agricultural, engineering
and financial policies and practices, and shall cause such action to be taken as
shall be reasonably requ,red to ensure the economic use of the water made available
by such systems for agricultural development and operations. To that end, the
Borrower shall promptly take or cause to be taken such measures to increase the
effectiveness of the operation and maintenance of the Irrigation Systems included
in the Project Area as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
(b)   Without restricting its other obligations under paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Borrower shall:
(i)         ensure that adequate funds shall be made available for use by
the Provincial Governments of West       and East Java, as
appropriate, for the operation and maintenance of each of the
Irrigation Systems included in the Project Area within one year
of the completion of each such Irrigation System;
(ii)       take such measures as may be necessary to improve the
effectiveness of the operation and maintenance staff of the
Provincial Governments of West and East Java;
(iii)      submit to the Bank by May 31 of each year a report of the
actual expenditures of the Provincial Governments of West and
East Java on operation and maintenance for the previous year
and a report on the estimated expenditures of the Provincial
Governments of West and East Java to be made on operation
and maintenance for the coming year; and
(iv)        within three years of the date of this Agreement, or such other
period as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank,
submit to the Bank for its review and comments a consolidated
operation and maintenance manual to assist the Provincial
Governments of West and East Java in the operation and
maintenance of the Irrigation Systems constructed under the
Project and thereafter, shall cause the Provincial Governments
of West and East Java to carry out such operation and
maintenance pursuant to said manual.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, notwithstanding
the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall, through the
IPEDA, establish and thereafter maintain and collect, or cause to be established


﻿12
and thereafter maintained and collected, charges on irrigable agricultural land, or
on the users of the land, serviced by the tertiary irrigation and drainage networks
rehabilitated or constructed under the Project, as each of such tertiary networks
is completed, at such levels as shall be required to (i) cover all operation and
maintenance costs attributable to the provision of irrigation and drainage for such
land, beginning two years after completion of each such tertiary network, and
(ii) recover over the useful life of the irrigation system a reasonable portion of
the capital expenditures attributable to such system. To that end, operation and
maintenance costs and capital expenditures for facilities and services which are
common also to other water uses shall be apportioned among the various users
in an equitable manner.
(b)   The Borrower shall, beginning four years from      the date of this
Agreement, submit or cause to be submitted to the Bank for its review not less
than once every two years a report on the IPEDA rate collected from the different
classes of land in the Project Area and the methodology used in determining the
estimated net value of production thereunder.
(c)   In the event and to the extent that the funds available to the Provincial-
Governments of West and East Java from their respective resources are insufficient
to cover the expenditures estimated to be required for continuous operation and
maintenance in accordance with Section 4.03 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall, promptly as needed, take such measures as shall be required to cover such
expenditures.
Section 4.05. The Botrower shall take such action as shall be necessary to
provide adequate agricultural support servicef in each of the Irrigation Systems
included in the Project Area, including provision of agricultural extension services
and agricultural inputs (impro ied seed, fertilizers, agricultural chemicals and
agricultural credit) in order to encourage the optimum use of irrigation water for
agricultural production.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the obligations
referred to in Section 4.04 of this Agreement can be implemented in accordance
with the provisions of Sections 5(B) and 6(1) of Law No. 1l/PRP/1959 of the
Borrower.


﻿13
Section 5.02. The date July 9, 1975, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
MINISTRY FINANCE
Jakarta
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿14
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By Zahar Arifin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gregory B. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works                    41,000,000         50% (representing
included in                                        the estimated
Parts A, B, C                                      foreign expendi-
and D(2) of                                        tu-e component)
the Project
(2)   Equipment and                   2,500,000
vehicles
included in
Part D(1) of
the Project
(a)   Directly                                     100% of foreign
imported                                     expenditures
(b)   Locally                                      95% of local
manufac-                                     expenditures
tured                                        (ex-factory)
(c)   Imported                                     65% of local
goods pro-                                   expenditures
cured lo-
cally (ex-
cluding
vehicles)
(3)   Consultants'                      500,0            100% of foreign
services, equip-                                   expenditures
ment and materials
for groundwater in-
vestigation included
in Part F(4) of the
Project


﻿16
Amount of the
Loan Allocated                % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                    Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(4)   Agricultural                       5,500,000
support program
including sur-
vey and evalua-
tion
(a)   Civil Works                                     50% (representing
included in                                     the estimated
Parts E and                                     foreign expendi-
H of the                                        ture component)
Project
(b)   Equipment,
materials
and vehicles
included in
Parts E and J
of the Project
(i)   Directly                                  100% of foreign
imported                                  expenditures
(3)    Locally                                   95% of local
manufac-                                  expenditures
tured                                     (ex-factory)
(iii)  Imported                                   65% of local
goods pro-                                expenditures
cured lo-
cally (ex-
cluding
vehicles)
(c)   Consultants'                                    100% of foreign
services, tech-                                 expenditures
nical assistance
and training
included in
Parts E, H,
1(2) and J of
the Project


﻿17
Amount of the
Loan Allocated               % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(d)    Survey and evalua-                           50% (representing
tion services in-                            the estimated
cluded in Part J                             foreign expendi-
of the Project                               ture component)
(other than in
Category 4(c)
above)
(5)   Consultants'                    6,500,000          100% of foreign
services, tech-                                    expenditures
nical assistance
and training in-
cluded in Parts
A, B, C, F(1),
F(2), F(3) and
I(1) of the
Project
(6)   Mapping services                 1,000,000        80% (representing
(including equip-                                  the estimated
ment and materials)                               foreign expendi-
ture component)
(7)   Unallocated                     8,000,000
TOTAL               65,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from, the territory of the Borrower.


﻿18
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such taxes
included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to increase food supplies and
incomes of about 365,000 farmers and their families in the Project Area by assisting
in the development of irrigated agriculture. It consists of the following Parts:
Part A:     Cirebon Irrigation Systems
The rehabilitation and improvement of the Cirebon Irrigation Systems
in West Java to serve about 89,000 hectares as follows:
(1)   rehabilitation of about 120 headworks and weirs;
(2)   rehabilitation and desilting of about 450 kilometers of primary and
secondary irrigation and drainage canals and related structures;
(3)   rehabilitation of tertiary irrigation and drainage canals and quaternary
irrigation and drainage canals related thereto and construction of
permanent structures on tertiary irrigation and drainage canals and
permanent head gates for quaternary irrigation and drainage canals;
(4)   improvement of about 300 kilometers of access roads and construction
of about 55 kilometers of inspection roads and paths;
(5)   construction of about 40 kilometers of drainage canals and related
flood protection works in coastal areas and rehabilitation of about
200 kilometers of drainage canals; and
(6)   on about 20 pilot areas of about 100 hectares each, design and
construction of pilot on-farm development works consisting of tertiary
and quaternary irrigation and drainage canals with related control
structures; farm roads; and to the extent possible, land consolidation.
Part B:     Rentang Irrigation System
The rehabilitation and improvement of the Rentang Irrigation System
in West Java to serve about 92,000 hectares as follows:
(1)   replacement of the Rentang Barrage on the Cimanuk River by a
reinforced concrete barrage about 600 meters upstream of the Rentang
Barrage designed to permit a maximum flow of 1,500 cusecs;


﻿20
(2)   rehabilitation  of about 200     kilometers of drainage    canals and
construction of about 60 kilometers of drainage canals and related
structures to serve a coastal area of about 30,000 hectares;
(3)   rehabilitation of tertiary irrigation and drainage canals and quaternary
irrigation and drainage canals related thereto and construction of
permanent structures on tertiary irrigation and drainage canals and
permanent head gates for quaternary irrigation and drainage canals;
and
(4)   on about 20 pilot areas of about 100 hectares each, design and
construction of pilot on-farm development works consisting of tertiary
and quaternary irrigation and drainage canals with related control
structures; farm roads; and to the extent possible, land consolidation.
Part C:      Sampean Baru Irrigation System
The construction and expansion through PROSIDA of the Sampean
Baru Irrigation System in East Java to serve about 9,800 hectares as follows:
(1)   rehabilitation of the weir and intake on the Sampean River;
(2)   construction of an earthfill closure dam   on the Sampean River;
(3)   construction of about 35 kilometers of primary irrigation canals,
rehabilitation of 9 kilometers of primary canals and related structures
and construction of about 120 kilometers of secondary irrigation canals
and related structures;
(4)   rehabilitation of tertiary irrigation and drainage canals and quaternary
irrigation and drainage canals related thereto and construction of
permanent structures on tertiary irrigation and drainage canals and
permanent head gates for quaternary irrigation and drainage canals;
(5)   land levelling of up to 2,000 hectares;
(6)   construction of about 100 kilometers of access roads, inspection roads
and paths; and
(7)   construction of a pilot pumping scheme on about 100 hectares to
demonstrate irrigation of high value crops on upland areas; and on
two pilot areas of about 100 hectares each, design and construction


﻿21
of pilot on-farm development works consisting of tertiary and
quaternary irrigation and drainage canals with related control
structures; land levelling where necessary; farm roads; and to the extent
possible, land consolidation.
Part D:     Equipment, Vehicles and Other Civil Works
(1)   Purchase  and   utilization  of equipment and     vehicles for the
construction, operation and maintenance of the Irrigation Systems
included in Parts A, B and C of this Schedule; and
(2)   Construction of offices and camps for construction staff and of houses
for operation and maintenance staff involved in the construction,
operation and maintenance, respectively, of the Irrigation Systems
included in Parts A, B and C of this Schedule.
Part E:     Agricultural Support Program
(1)   The establishment of an agricultural development center at Plumbon
in West Java and construction of about twelve rural extension centers
in the areas of the Cirebon Irrigation Systems and the Rentang
Irrigation System; and
(2)   Strengthening of the agricultural extension services of the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture through technical assistance, training and the
purchase and utilization of equipment, vehicles and a communications
system.
Part F:     Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
(1)   Feasibility study including detailed engineering of the rehabilitation
and improvement of the Madiun Irrigation Systems and of possible
storage dam sites in the area of the Madiun Irrigation Systems;
(2)   Feasibility study for the provision of dry season irrigation for about
30,000 hectares of the Cirebon Irrigation Systems;
(3)   Detailed engineering of the irrigation and drainage networks to be
constructed in the North Sadang Irrigation System; and
(4)   Investigation, through the Groundwater Group, of the groundwater
resources and alternative sources of supplementary water in the Upper


﻿22
Solo and Madiun Valleys in East Java to determine the most
economical method      of increasing  water supply    for agricultural
production in these areas.
Part G:     Mapping
Preparation of maps for the areas to be rehabilitated in the Madiun
Irrigation Systems, to facilitate the development of the tertiary irrigation
and drainage networks of the areas included in the Prior Development Credit
Agreements and for the Jatigede Dam Reservoir area.
Part H:     Soil Conservation
Preparation and implementation by the Borrower's Ministry of
Agriculture in cooperation with DGWRD of a soil conservation program in
the Cimanuk River catchment area including inter alia:
(1)   development of improved agronomic techniques;
(2)   establishment of forestry and vegetation belts; and
(3)   stream  and river stabilization.
Part I:      Training
(1)   A training program   for PROSIDA staff consisting of:
(a)   overseas training of about 20 provincial chief and section
engineers and about 6 senior engineers at similar and suitable
irrigation systems in neighboring countries;
(b)   overseas training of about six middle level engineers;
(c)   overseas training   of about six    post-graduate engineers in
principles of planning and design of water systems; and
(d)   audio-visual training for operation and maintenance staff.
(2)   A training program   for the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture staff
consisting of:
(a)   overseas training of about eight senior staff in agricultural
management, crop data collection and soil conservation;


﻿23
(b)   overseas training of about 10 middle level staff in areas such
as rice production techniques, multiple cropping, farmer
organizations, rice agronomy, plant protection and soil
conservation; and
(c)   training in local institutions of about 35 local staff in areas such
as those specified in paragraph (b) above.
Part J:     Survey and Evaluation of Project Benefits
Survey and evaluation of the economic and social benefits of the
Project as well as of the Projects carried out under the Prior Development
Credit Agreements.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿24
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                 (expressed in dollars)*
May 15, 1981                                             435,000
November 15, 1981                                        450,000
May 15, 1982                                             470,000
November 15, 1982                                        490,000
May 15, 1983                                              510,000
November 15, 1983                                         535,000
May 15, 1984                                              555,000
November 15, 1984                                         580,000
May 15, 1985                                              605,000
November 15, 1985                                         630,000
May 15, 1986                                              655,000
November 15, 1986                                        685,000
May 15, 1987                                              715,000
November 15, 1987                                         745,000
May 15, 1988                                              775,000
November 15, 1988                                         810,000
May 15, 1989                                              845,000
November 15, 1989                                         880,000
May 15, 1990                                              915,000
November 15, 1990                                         955,000
May 15, 1991                                              995,000
November 15, 1991                                       1,040,000
May 15, 1992                                            1,085,000
November 15, 1992                                       1,130,000
May 15, 1993                                            1,75,0
November 15, 1993                                       1,225,000
May 15, 1994                                            1,280,000
November 15, 1994                                       1,335,000
May 15, 1995                                            1,390,000
November 15, 1995                                       1,450,000
May 15, 1996                                            1,510,000
November 15, 1996                                       1,575,000
May 15, 1997                                            1,640,000
November 15, 1997                                       1,710,000
May 15, 1998                                            1,785,000
November 15, 1998                                       1,860,000
May 15, 1999                                            1,940,000
November 15, 1999                                       2,020,000
May 15, 2000                                            2,110,000
November 15, 2000                                       2,195,000
May 15, 2001                                            2,290,000
November 15, 2001                                       2,390,000
May 15, 2002                                            2,490,000
November 15, 2002                                       2,595,000
May 15, 2003                                            2,705,000
November 15, 2003                                       2,820,000
May 15, 2004                                            2,940,000
November 15, 2004                                       3,080,000
*  To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other than dollars
(see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿25
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than four years
before maturity                                    1%
More than four years but not
more than eight years
before maturity                                2-1/4%
More than eight years but not
more than fourteen years
before maturity                                    4%
More than fourteen years but
not more than twenty
years before maturity                           5-1/2%
More than twenty years but not
more than twenty-six years
before maturity                                7-1/4%
More than twenty-six years but
not more than twenty-eight
years before maturity                              8%
More than twenty-eight years
before maturity                                8-1/2%


﻿26
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Contracts for equipment and vehicles and for the construction of the Rentang
Barrage shall be let under procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    (a)   Contracts for equipment and vehicles shall be grouped so as to attract
international competition.
(b)   Bidders shall not be prequalified.
3.    (a)   The civil works included in Parts A, B, C, D(2), E(l) and H of the
Project (other than the construction of the Rentang Barrage) shall be carried out         -
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and
pursuant to the Borrower's usual procurement procedures.
Bidders for the civil works contracts included in Parts A, B and C of the
Project shall be required to prequalify. The Borrower shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall
introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a stater.nt of their qualifications
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification, shall
be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments before the applicants
are notified and the Borrower shall make such additions or deletions from the
said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   The mapping included in Part G of the Project shall be carried out
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and
pursuant to the Borrower's usual procurement procedures.
(c)   Without limitation to the provisions of Parts A(1) and (2) of this
Schedule, the Borrower may procure items of equipment or vehicles (excluding
spare parts) estimated to cost less than $10,000 each without resort to international
competition, provided that (i) such items of equipment or vehicles are procured
on a basis of reasonable and competitive procurement procedures, including but
not limited to the solicitation of not less than three price quotations, (ii) the total


﻿27
cost of items of equipment and vehicles procured pursuant to this sub-paragraph
does not exceed a maximum amount of the equivalent of $100,000 and (iii) the
number of vehicles procured pursuant to this sub-paragraph does not exceed a
maximum of ten.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison Gf bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Indonesia if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Indonesia equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to


﻿28
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preference for Domestic
Con tractors
1.   With respect to any contract for civil works included under Category I of        A
the table set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the Borrower may grant a
margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, as determined by the
Borrower, in accordance with, and ,subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided in Part A(l)
of this Schedule and applicants for qualification applying also for such preference
shall be asked to provide, as part of the information for qualification, such
information, including details of ownership, as shall be required to determine
whether, according to the classification established by the Borrower pursuant to
criteria set by the Bank, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic
preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give
effect to such preference.
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evcluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.


﻿29
D.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment and vehicles estimated to cost
the equivalent of $75,000 or more and with respect to all contracts for civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall transmit
copies of the three lowest bids to the Bank and shall inform the Bank of the
names of all bidders and the respective amounts of such bids.
(c) AfLer bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
.a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank


﻿30
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


