Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4973 
Operation Name 
Indonesia Sixth Development Policy Loan 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%); General industry and 
trade sector (42%); Micro and SME finance (8%) 
Project ID 
P113638 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
May 28, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
August 3, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
September 29, 2009 
1. Country Background 
 
Indonesia has made remarkable progress over the last decade in terms of macroeconomic and 
political stability. Macroeconomic performance since the late 1990’s has been strong with 
consistent output growth and rapid decline in external imbalances. Steadily increasing tax 
revenues have contributed to the decline in the fiscal deficit. Growth has also been grounded on 
larger private sector investments and high domestic consumption. Under a scenario of controlled 
inflation and moderate interest rates Indonesian citizens managed to improve their living 
standards and the country managed to reduce poverty levels. In the decade since the crisis, 
Indonesia’s political system has undergone a profound transformation, from a centralized 
authoritarian regime to a decentralized democratic polity. Constitutional reforms mandating 
direct elections to all levels of government have created greater electoral accountability. A“big 
bang” decentralization in 2001 has devolved substantial funds and authority to local governments 
and new forms of decentralized participation in policymaking have been created. Particularly in 
the last five years, the political stability and the broader embrace of the democratic process that 
these changes have engendered have been critical to supporting Indonesia’s economic recovery 
and calming separatist sentiments.  
 
Despite impressive economic performance and remarkable transformation and consolidation of 
the political system, Indonesia needs to build on its current robust foundation and accelerate 
growth while ensuring that it is inclusive and sustainable. Higher levels of growth have not 
translated, to the extent hoped for, into greater poverty reduction and inadequate environmental 
management is leading to unsustainable degradation of Indonesia’s considerable natural 
resources and increased vulnerability to natural disasters. With a strong fiscal position, Indonesia 
should be able to cushion the adverse effects of the global crisis on vulnerable groups, and 
provide additional resources for development priorities. But in order to seize these opportunities 
Indonesia will need more effective and accountable institutions that can translate available 
resources into better development outcomes. This will be particularly important as Indonesia 
embarks on a period of 
second generation reforms
 to provide, for example, more sophisticated 
services in infrastructure, better education, and a sustainable health system. If Indonesia fails to 
address these second generation reforms there is a risk that the country could fall into a 
middle-
income trap
 — squeezed between the innovations of high-income countries and the low labor 
costs of low-income countries. 
Page  2
The Government is fully aware that if Indonesia it to realize its potential as a competitive, 
inclusive, sustainable and resilient middle-income country, it has to adapt the institutions and 
mechanisms that govern the functioning of the state and shape state-society interactions.
 
The 
country’s authorities understand that the central challenges Indonesia faces today in realizing its 
development agenda are all, in one form or another, of an institutional nature in that they entail 
furthering Indonesia’s as yet incomplete governance transition by improving the effectiveness of 
public institutions and processes through longer-term institutional and process transformations. 
Even in areas where additional financing is clearly needed - for instance, from the private sector 
in the case of many infrastructure sectors, or from the public sector if the restructuring of 
Indonesia’s health system is to be financially viable - institutional challenges need to first be 
sorted out for that financing to be forthcoming and for it to be effectively deployed. 
 
2. Operation objective(s) 
The overall goal of the DPL program is to help the Government of Indonesia (GoI) achieve its 
medium-term growth and poverty reduction objectives. The proposed DPL 6 supports the GoI’s 
reform efforts in i) improving the investment climate through strengthened investment service 
institutions and regulations (revised investment negative list, simplified investment licensing 
procedures), enhanced trade facilitation as well as reduced tax burden and improved tax 
administration; ii) enhancing public financial management through improved results orientation 
in the budget process, streamlined budget execution and improved cash management as well as 
improved public procurement systems; iii) enhancing poverty reduction and improving service 
delivery through increased funding for poverty programs, improved targeting of poverty 
programs and improved poverty measurement. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement  
The FY09-FY12 Country Partnership Strategy proposes that the DPL series will continue to be at 
the center of WBG support in strengthening Indonesia’s central government institutions and 
systems, a key cross-sectoral engagement theme under the CPS. The CPS recognizes that the 
DPLs have helped the Government’s efforts to reduce inefficient public expenditures, strengthen 
tax administration and debt management, enhance the competitiveness of the financial sector and 
implement governance and fiduciary reforms. Underpinned by a large AAA program co-financed 
by development partners, DPLs have also supported key reforms to improve the business climate 
and service delivery. According to the CPS, the next generation of DPLs shall build on strong 
relationships with the reform-minded economic ministries and continue to support Indonesia’s 
central government in strengthening effectiveness of its systems. Key elements include building 
capacity in planning and budgeting, revenue and expenditure management, while specific 
measures relate to public procurement, internal control and auditing, monitoring and evaluation, 
and research and analysis for better policy formulation — all drawn from the Government’s own 
policy packages. 
 
4. Financing 
The proposed Development Policy Loan for US$750 million is a single-tranche IBRD loan, the 
second in a programmatic series of three policy loans and the second under the FY09-FY12 
Country Partnership Strategy. The loan would be made available upon loan effectiveness, as all 
policy actions supported by the loan/credit would have been completed prior to Board 
presentation.  
 
Page  3
5. 
Institutional implementation arrangements 
The Ministry that will be responsible for overall implementation of the proposed operation, for 
reporting progress and coordinating actions among other concerned ministries and agencies will 
be the Coordinating Ministry of the Economy. 
 
The implementation and attainment of the DPL prior actions will be monitored using several 
mechanisms
,
including Government’s established monitoring committees and/or technical 
groups who are responsible for ensuring the implementation of agreed actions as well as progress 
follow-up; regular joint development partners-Government meetings to discuss interim progress 
in achieving agreed milestones in the reform agenda and future triggers for the DPL series; as 
well as existent, despite its weaknesses, general central Government monitoring systems. The 
Bank will also work closely with the Coordinating Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Finance 
and other relevant agencies to assess reform progress and impacts during the life of the program. 
Monitoring and evaluation will be supported by budgetary, legislative and economic data 
provided by the authorities and verified in official disclosures, directives and regulations. 
Baseline and updated data will be provided by the respective specialized agencies and tracked 
according to the Monitoring and Results Framework included in the Program Document.
 
6. 
Benefits and risks 
 
Benefits 
The key benefits expected from the program are: (i) progress towards Government’s medium-
term objectives of improved investment climate; public financial management systems and 
poverty alleviation and service delivery for the poor; (ii) sustained Bank engagement in policy 
dialogue with the Government on the direction and content of its reform agenda of core national 
institutions and systems; (iii) donor coordination and parallel financing around a common policy 
framework and dialogue; and (iv) support to the implementation of other investment operations.
 
The reform of central Government institutions and systems will address structural constraints to 
increased and more effective public spending and private investment in key sectors such as 
infrastructure or health. 
 
Risks 
The proposed operation faces the following risks:  
·
The direction and momentum of the current reform agenda is sensitive to the political 
outcomes of this year’s elections. 
Potential political and cabinet shifts are addressed by 
providing flexibility in future trigger selection whilst focusing on achieving the overall 
objectives. This risk is also minimized through the Bank’s engagement in core reform areas 
through other instruments (AAA and investment lending). 
·
Indonesia is vulnerable to disruption induced by sudden reversals in capital flows and 
capital flight because of the global liquidity crisis. 
The Government has taken a number of 
precautionary and proactive measures to reduce the likelihood of such disruption and alleviate 
financing constraints if liquidity conditions do not ease. 
·
Fiduciary and reputational risks remain despite improvements in the overall fiduciary 
environment.
 Despite a rapid increase in demonstrable reforms and a continued Government 
commitment, corruption and weaknesses in the governance framework remain impediments to 
development. The DPL series, including the current operation, is part of the strategy to address 
Page  4
these concerns. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impacts
 
Most policy actions supported by DPL6 are unlikely to harm the poor while some have the 
potential to deliver positive impacts on poverty over the medium-term. The implementation of a 
revised investment negative list and the simplification of the business licensing procedures are 
expected to promote higher levels of investment which have the potential to support economic 
growth, job creation and positive poverty outcomes. With the tax reform actions the Government 
plans to improve the equity of the tax administration while contributing to increased revenue 
collections, generating additional fiscal resources which can be used in poverty alleviation 
efforts. The implementation of the Government’s policy package as it pertains to SME’s also has 
the potential to reduce poverty incidence by encouraging economic growth through improved 
SME’s access to finance.
 
Improvements in budget preparation and budget execution systems are 
expected to lead to the allocation of public resources according to policy priorities of the 
Government; to a reduction of public under-spending or disruption in project implementation 
cycles in key sectors; to a reduction of corruption and increased Government outlays and thereby 
to an increase in private investment and job creation in the economy as well as more efficient 
service delivery. 
 
Further increasing the size of the average community block grants provided 
through PNPM while improving its poverty targeting is expected to directly contribute to poverty 
reduction. Improvements in systems for better targeting of poverty alleviation programs and 
measurement of poverty are also expected to support the poor by ensuring that these programs 
reach the appropriate beneficiaries and ensuring the availability of more reliable data and 
information required to make sound policy decisions. 
 
Environment Aspects
 
Most areas supported by DPL6 are unlikely to have any significant positive or negative 
environmental impacts. In the few cases where negative effects on environmental performance 
might occur, the program document lays out some suggestions that could help to improve 
environmental outcomes. This is especially the case in the investment climate area. GoI 
investment streamlining efforts should explicitly recognize Indonesia’s environmental 
requirements and strive to ensure that environmental review requirements (AMDAL, monitoring 
and evaluation) are explicitly included in licensing decisions for businesses that meet legal 
criteria (size, impact) and that simplification approaches do not overlook environmental 
requirements. In other areas, the opposite is expected with actions generating positive 
environmental effects. Institutionalizing systems for assessing results in budget allocation, 
program design and targeting or improving the budgeting and planning systems along with the 
effectiveness of public spending can have positive environmental effects. PNPM spending has 
environmental review processes built in and could be further improved by systematically 
adopting the lessons of Green KDP to apply more widely in the PNPM program. 
 
8. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
750 
Page  5
Total 750 
 
9. Contact point 
Contact: Shubham Chaudhuri 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5781+3076 / 62-21-5299-3076 
Fax: 62-21-5299-3000 
Email: schaudhuri@worldbank.org 
Location: Jakarta, Indonesia (IBRD)
 
