                                                                                                   94142
Indonesia: Development Policy Loans 5 and 6                                                      April 17, 2012




 Reforming Policies, Transforming Indonesia:
 Supporting reform efforts in investments, public financial management,
 and poverty alleviation


Overview
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) financing and World Bank
expertise has helped support Indonesian reform efforts to improve the investment climate,
strengthen public financial management, and enhance poverty alleviation and service delivery.
The World Bank has been providing this support since 2004 through a series of annual loans
under the Indonesia Development Policy Loans (DPL) program.


The DPLs 5 and 6 in particular (2008-2009) helped roll out Indonesia’s National Single
Window system, improve taxpayer services, and support several other reforms to reduce
investor uncertainty. These reforms helped improve the governance and transparency of public
spending by helping set up a Treasury Single Account and a national public procurement
agency, among other initiatives. The DPLs 5 and 6 also helped enhance poverty alleviation and
service delivery, by helping Bappenas, Indonesia’s development planning agency, set up an
internal system to evaluate poverty reduction programs and create a uniform database on
impoverished households that can be used by various implementing agencies.




Challenge
Indonesia’s investments had been constrained by poor intra-
                                                                  More Results
government coordination, legal and judicial uncertainty, poor
infrastructure, as well as unclear policies, regulations, and

                                                                  35
procedures. State and regional budgets were not yet
planned with specific development outcomes in mind, nor
were they being spent under tight internal controls or

                                                                  million
accounted for with strong financial reporting. Poverty
reduction programs were also fragmented, and poverty
measurement and targeting systems needed to be improved.
                                                                  Indonesians benefit annually
There was also a need to strengthen the existing household        from the national community
and community-based poverty reduction programs for                empowerment program
example, the medical insurance program (Jamkesmas) and
the national community empowerment program (PNPM
Mandiri).

Approach                                                         MORE INFORMATION

The DPL program overall is a broad, cross-cutting program          Indonesia Fifth Development
                                                                     Policy Loan
that has been designed to focus on strengthening
government systems for improved policy implementation, in            Indonesia Sixth Development
line with the World Bank's Country Partnership Strategy for          Policy Loan
Indonesia. The DPLs 5 and 6 in particular relied largely on          Country Website
dialogue and engagement with the Indonesian government in
                                                                     Country Overview
all three DPL policy areas (investment climate, public
financial management, and poverty alleviation and service            Country Partnership Strategy
delivery). As such, the government’s own reform agenda fed           Data and Statistics
significantly into the objectives, design and implementation of
the DPLs 5 and 6, thereby putting the government squarely
in the driver’s seat. The DPL approach prompts on-going
deliberation of policy options, strengthens the resolve of reform champions within government,
and may eventually lead to reform breakthroughs. The DPLs are seen by the Indonesian
government not only as a financing instrument, but more as a tool for accelerating its own
critical reforms.

Results
The second DPL series contributed to the following key outcomes, which continued to be
pursued under the ongoing DPL program:

       Increased investment flows into Indonesia: Investment improved significantly from the
       2007-09 average of US$7 billion to US$10 billion in the first half of 2011 (31.5 percent
       investment to gross domestic product (GDP) ratio).

       Laying the groundwork for Indonesia’s National Single Window (INSW) to help
       reduce the time and cost for importing and exporting activities: The INSW pilot
       program has helped raise the number of importers/exporters from 3,791 in 2010 to
       5,618 in 2011.

       Improvement in key indicators of the Doing Business survey: During the period of
       2010 to 2011, Indonesia’s ranking for starting a business improved from 156 to 155;
       paying taxes from 134 to 131; and resolving insolvency from 149 to 146.

       Improvement in the budget process: Total capital expenditure disbursement by the
       end of Quarter 2 went from 21percent in 2008 to 26 percent in 2009. Thenumber of
       government line ministries/agencies receiving unqualified opinions on their financial
       statements also increased from 45 in 2009 to 52 in 2010.

       Reprioritization of poverty alleviation and service delivery efforts : A shift in
       government focus to make public expenditures more pro-poor has led to the formation
       of a National Team for the Acceleration of Poverty Reduction under the Vice President’s
       office, tasked with coordinating poverty reduction programs, and developing national
       targeting and monitoring and evaluation (M&E) systems.

       Scaling up of PNPM Mandiri : Government funding for the entire PNPM program also
       increased to around US$1 billion. By the end of 2011, PNPM rural had reached 63,000
       villages, 5,020 kecamatan (districts) and 393 kabupaten (regency); whereas PNPM
       urban had reached 10,948 urban wards in 268 kota/kabupaten. Annually, about 35
       million people benefit from PNPM Mandiri subprojects, with the participation of the poor
       and women estimated at 45 percent and 50 percent, respectively.

Voices


      Many people used to borrow money from bank titil (loan
   sharks). This worsens one’s economic condition. That’s why I
   suggest people to borrow money from the PNPM SPP (women’s
   savings and loans) instead.  
                  — A female community leader in Kabupaten Ngawi


Bank Contribution
IBRD financing of US$750million was provided for each of the DPLs 5 and 6.

Partners
The DPL program is a joint collaboration with the Japanese government through the Japan
International Cooperation Agency (JICA), which has provided total co-financing of US$800
million under DPLs 1-7; and the Asian Development Bank (ADB), which contributed US$1.2
billion under DPLs 2-7. Cooperation between the World Bank, the Indonesian government,
JICA and the ADB on policy-based lending has primed Indonesia to pursue similar harmonized
approaches in other programs. To this end, non-co-financing development partners like the
Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID) and the European Commission
areregularly invited to attend DPL meetings as observers.

Toward the Future
In November 2011, the World Bank approved the Eighth Development Policy Loan (DPL-8)
worth a total US$400 million. The DPL-8 is part of the third DPL series (DPLs 7-9) aimed at
building on progress made in improving the investment climate; strengthening public financial
management; and enhancing poverty alleviation.The goals of DPL-8 are closely aligned with
Indonesia’s medium-term development priorities (2010-14). These priorities include installing
the Single Sign-On facility at the National Food and Drug Monitoring Agency and Tax and
Customs Agency, as part of the National Single Window to facilitate trade. Efforts to strengthen
budget execution through the issuance of new regulations will also continue, as will efforts to
strengthen poverty measurement and targeting systems.
