Report No. PID7087
Project name                     Mozambique-Agricultural Sector Public (+)
Expenditure Program (PROAGRI)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Agriculture
Project ID                       MZPA1799
Borrower                         Republic of Mozambique
Implementing Agent               Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
Praca dos Herois Mobambicanos
Maputo, Mozambique
contact - Eng. Sergio Chitara,
Director Nacional de Economia
Telephone        258 -1- 460026
Fax             258 -1- 460093
PID Date                         October 29, 1998
Project Appraisal Date           May, 1998
Projected Board Date             January 1999
Country and sector background
Mozambique's recent macroeconomic trends promise good prospects for
economic growth and sustainable development. Real GDP growth rose from an
average of 6.9 percent a year in 1993-96 to 12.4 percent in 1997. Although
Mozambique's GDP growth has been impressive in recent years, per capita GNP
was estimated at only US$150 in 1997. Eighty percent of all Mozambicans live
in rural areas, and about two thirds of them live in absolute poverty.
Agriculture and natural resource exploitation is the dominant economic
activity in rural areas, employing 70 percent of the labor force but
contributing only 32 percent to GDP - an indication of low returns to labor in
rural areas.
The structure of Mozambican agriculture today reflects the legacy of
colonial institutions and Government adoption of centrally planned policies
following Independence (1975). For over a decade, agricultural prices were
frozen and depressed through direct and indirect policies. The tightening of
controls on output markets, together with the failure of parastatal
enterprises to provide necessary and timely agricultural inputs, such as seed
and fertilizer, resulted in a retreat of the rural population from production
for the market and a return to subsistence production. During three decades
of war much of the country's physical and marketing infrastructure was damaged
or destroyed, and the work oxen, livestock and wildlife population decimated.
Only recently returned from refugee or displaced status to their homesteads,
most farmers have few resources.
Since the end of the civil war and the severe drought in 1992/93, the
agriculture sector has rebounded by an average of 14 percent per annum. This
rapid growth is also a response to gradual liberalization of macro and
sectoral policies which started in 1987.    Agricultural growth has occurred in
both food and export crop production. There is an overall improvement in the
country's food supply.    Total aggregate and per capita cereal production and
supply increased substantially. Total cereal production has doubled since
1989/90. In recent years the country's production of food staples has



exceeded the needs of the 15.7 million population, but a high proportion of
rural households remain food insecure for prolonged periods.
Access problems and inadequate support services constrain development to
areas where population density is high. Consequently, overuse of natural
resources and degradation are issues. While market liberalization is virtually
complete, private sector engagement in input supply is limited so far, and the
effectiveness of public services in supporting agricultural development is
low. Elimination of high inflation and privatization of retail banking have
laid the basis for financial sector growth, though improved access to credit
may not occur for smallholders without some form of public support for rural
finance intermediation. Essential regulatory and public support functions need
revitalization to support agricultural development.
Project Objectives.
The purpose of the Agricultural Sector Public Expenditure Program
(PROAGRI) is to improve the impact of agriculture public expenditure in
securing an enabling environment for sustainable and equitable growth in the
rural sector such that poverty is reduced and food security improved, while
the physical and social environment is protected. The program priorities are:
- strengthen government institutions, to be able to formulate and advocate
enabling policies for small holder and private sector development in
agricultural sector;
- strengthen the managerial capabilities of Ministry of Agriculture and
Fisheries, providing transparent and sound management practices;
- support public service delivery to the communities such as research,
extension, livestock health etc. and finally,
- support natural resources sustainable management trough provision of good
practices in forest   & wildlife management  and   land   management.
Project Description.
PROAGRI is a long term program aimed at supporting sectoral development
goals by consolidating the sectoral public expenditure program, rationalizing
the role of MAP, and improving the effectiveness of MAP in policy formulation,
regulation and public service provision. PROAGRI includes all agricultural
public expenditure managed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAP).
PROAGRI will replace fragmented donor-driven projects with a comprehensive
program consistent with the role of MAP in a market-based economy.
PROAGRI comprises eight vertical components congruent with the main
functional units of MAP, that can be clustered into three subprograms
corresponding to the major outputs expected of PROAGRI: Institutional
Development; Strengthening of Agricultural Support Services; and Natural
Resource Management. PROAGRI's budget for the first five years program is
estimated at US$ 202 million, for a period of 1999 to 2003, with the following
indicative budget allocations:
Sub-Programs and Components                               US$ M
Institutional Development                                 30.0
Strengthening of Agricultural
Support Services                                          76.0
Research                                          26.0
Extension                                        26.0
Support to Crop Production                         4.0
-2-



Livestock Development                            20.0
Natural Resource Management                               71.0
Forestry and Wildlife Management                 36.0
Land Management                                  25.0
Small Scale Irrigation                            10.0
Contingencies                                             23.0
Total                                                     200.0
Project financing.
The Bank , donors and the government have committed themselves to co-
financing PROAGRI against a set of basic principles that define the nature and
direction of MAP's transformation and its support for the sector. Possible IDA
financing for PROAGRI is estimated at US$40.0 millions.
Project implementation.
The program is scheduled for implementation in early 1999.
Project sustainability.
The financial sustainability of PROAGRI is contingent on (i) the
continuation and deepening of Government's economic reform program,
particularly in the agricultural and financial sectors; (ii) donor
collaboration and commitment to support PROAGRI over a 15-20 year period;
(iii) the timely and sufficient provision of counterpart funds; (iv) a
substantial improvement in the managerial capacity of MAP and the implementing
agencies at the provincial level.
PROAGRI returns to improved regulation and service delivery are estimated
to be high, and worth the effort of MAP's institutional redesign and reform.
A broad assessment of the cost of PROAGRI matching it to the changes in
agricultural GDP which would be needed to justify the expenditure, indicate
that it will take an incremental annual rate of growth in agriculture GDP of
only 0.76 percent per annum to provide an economic rate of return of 16
percent on expenditure.
Poverty category.
The program seeks to foster a poverty reduction pattern of agricultural
growth by creating the necessary conditions for sustainable development of
smallholder farmers. On that account, the program will contribute to promote
rapid broad based, and private sector led growth.
Environmental aspects.
Potential negative environmental impacts include localized land
degradation, increased risk of forest fires, reduced biodiversity, increased
conflict over land and water due to expansion of cropping, livestock
husbandry, forestry, and eco-tourism, reduced water flows and water tables,
increased pollution and salination of soils and water courses, and pesticide
induced health problems. However, the overall environmental impact of PROAGRI
is expected to be positive through its support for sustainable farming systems
and natural resource use.
Poverty is contributing to environmental degradation by forcing farmers
to exploit available natural resources in an unsustainable manner. By
increasing farmers' productivity, incomes, food security, and resilience to
drought and flooding, PROAGRI will help to reduce pressure on the environment
- 3 -



particularly in peri-urban and other densely populated areas. Other positive
environmental impacts should include growth in rural employment opportunities,
decreased migration to urban centers, improved stability and sustainability of
farming systems through PROAGRI's emphasis on better land husbandry and the
increased integration of livestock.
The Natural Resources Management subprogram should also lead to
conservation of endangered ecosystems and biological diversity; an increase in
wildlife populations; an increase in the stock of woody biomass; protection of
watersheds and reduction of erosion; a greater store of carbon in biomass and
soils; improved surveillance and monitoring of natural resource use;
strengthened communal rights to resources; guidance of agricultural expansion
into those areas where cropping will be sustainable; and, more sustainable
irrigation development.
Program Objective Category: Sector Management
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending November 27, 1998.
- 4 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.



