                                                Document of
                                           The World Bank


                                                                             Report No: ICR0000337




               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                       (IDA-31710 IDA-3171A)




                                                   ON A

                                ADAPTABLE PROGRAM CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.7 MILLION
                                (US$30.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE

                                  FOR THE FIRST PHASE OF AN

    AGRICULTURAL SECTOR PUBLIC EXPENDITURE PROGRAM (PROAGRI)




                                              June 15, 2007




Environment, Rural and Social Development Unit, AFTS1
Country Department 2
Africa Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective May 2007)

                         Currency Unit = Metical
                         26,280 Meticais = US$1
                            US$1.437 = SDR1

                             FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 ­ December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGDP    Agricultural Gross Domestic Product
APL     Adaptable Program Lending
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CFFM    Common Flow of Funds Mechanism
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
DBS     Direct Budget Support
DPL     Development Policy Lending
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
FRR     Financial Rate of Return
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR     Implementation Completion and Review Report
IDA     International Development Association
IL      Investment Loan
ISR     Implementation Supervision Report
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
M&E     Monitoring & Evaluation
MADER   Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
MAP     Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
MINAG   Ministry of Agriculture
MoA     Ministry of Agriculture
MoF     Ministry of Finance
MDG     Millennium Development Goal
MOU     Memorandum of Understanding
MTEF    Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
MTR     Mid-Term Review
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PARPA   Action Plan for Reducing Absolute Poverty
PDO     Project Development Objectives
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
PROAGRI Agricultural Sector Public Expenditure Program
PRSC    Poverty Reduction Support Credit



                                    2

PRSP        Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SOE         Statement of Expenditures
SWAp        Sector-Wide Approach
TA          Technical Assistance
UTRESP      Technical Unit for Public Sector Reform
WP          With Project
WOP         Without Project




          Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili

        Country Director: Michael Baxter

         Sector Manager: Frank Fulgence K. Byamugisha

     Project Team Leader: Daniel Liborio Da Cruz Sousa
       ICR Team Leader: Animesh Shrivastava




                                         3

                                               Mozambique
            Agricultural Sector Public Expenditure Program (FY99)




                                               CONTENTS



A. Basic Information....................................................................................................... 5
B. Key Dates................................................................................................................... 5
C. Ratings Summary....................................................................................................... 5
D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... 6
E. Bank Staff................................................................................................................... 7
F. Results Framework Analysis...................................................................................... 7
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................... 9
H. Restructuring (if any)................................................................................................. 9
I. Disbursement Profile................................................................................................ 10

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................. 11
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 15
3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 19
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 24
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 25
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 28
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 29

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 30
Annex 2. Outcome Indicators and Output by Component............................................ 31
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 34
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 41
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 44
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 45
Annex 7A. Borrower's ICR.......................................................................................... 46
Annex 7B. Borrower's Comments on the ICR............................................................ 62
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 63
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 66

MAPS: IBRD29996, IBRD23153, IBRD23150.




                                                         4

A. Basic Information

                                                                     MZ-Agr Sec Pep
Country:               Mozambique              Project Name:
                                                                     (FY99)
Project ID:            P001799                 L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-31710,IDA-3171A
ICR Date:              05/22/2007              ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:    APL                     Borrower:
                                                                     MOZAMBIQUE
Original Total
                       XDR 21.7M               Disbursed Amount:     XDR 19.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Agriculture
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
African Development Bank (AfDB)
Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID)
Department for International Development UK (DFID)
European Union (EU)
Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)
United Nations Development Program (UNDP)
US Agency for International Development (USAID)
Canada
FINLAND
ITALY
SWEDEN
IRELAND
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)
Government of Netherlands
DANIDA
Austria


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/06/1997     Effectiveness:       08/12/1999       08/12/1999
Appraisal:             04/23/1998     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              02/18/1999     Mid-term Review:                      12/14/2002
                                      Closing:             06/30/2004       12/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate



                                              5

Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                    Quality at Entry
                                                                     Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          No                                         Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                              45                 16
Central government administration                                45                 42
Forestry                                                          5                  4
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                                    36
Irrigation and drainage                                           5                  2


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Administrative and civil service reform                        Secondary          Primary
Other environment and natural resources management              Primary          Secondary
Other rural development                                         Primary           Primary
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                Primary           Primary
procurement
Rural markets                                                   Primary          Secondary




                                                6

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili       Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Michael Baxter                   Phyllis R. Pomerantz
Sector Manager:            Frank Fulgence K. Byamugisha     Sushma Ganguly
Project Team Leader:       Daniel Liborio Da Cruz Sousa     David J. Nielson
                           Paavo Eliste/Animesh Shrivastava
ICR Team Leader:
                           (co-TTLs)
ICR Primary Author:        Animesh Shrivastava

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the first five-year phase of PROAGRI is to put in place improved
institutional arrangements for financing and delivery of agricultural services for smallholders,
and capacity to efficiently and effectively provide essential public and merit good functions
of MAP (now MADER).

The program focuses on: (i) transforming MAP's (now MADER's) institutional structure and
its programs of activities to make them more congruent with its newly-defined core
functions; and (ii) strengthening MADER's capacity to undertake its newly-defined functions.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
[Note: In line with the general guidelines for the data sheet section, the information below
has been drawn from ISRs but adapted for the fact that there were in fact no "Original Target
Values" provided in any of the project documents. The information for these ISRs have been
drawn eclectically from various sources at different points in time (see also relevant
comments by co-funding partners with respect to these indicators). However, for assessing
the achievement of the PDOs itself, the ICR team used a different set of indicators which is
presented in Annex 2.]

   (a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target    Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value         Values (from      Revised          Achieved at
                                               approval         Target        Completion or
                                             documents)         Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :    De-concentration/decentralization of MACO budget resources to local levels
Value            40% of MoA budget                                          60% of the MoA
quantitative or                           NA                                budget allocated to
qualitative)     allocated to provinces                                     provinces
Date achieved 01/01/2000                                                    12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %         Share of provinces in MoA annual budget (%)
achievement)



                                                7

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value         Values (from                        Achieved at
                                              approval        Revised         Completion or
                                            documents)      Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Medium-term planning process enacted
                                                                           3-yr Expenditure

Value                                                                      Scenario prepared

(quantitative  No medium-term           NA                                 for first time in

or qualitative)planning takes place                                        2006 to ensure
                                                                           stable resource
                                                                           from MoF
Date achieved 01/01/2000                                                   12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Quality of financial management improved
Value
(quantitative  17 months                NA                                 6 months
or qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2000
Comments
(incl. %       Measured by time taken to complete External Audit
achievement)

Indicator 3 :  Number of producers and producer associations assisted by extension services
               increased

               130,500 producers and                                       191,630 producers
Value                                                                      and 1,766 producer
(quantitative  440 producer associationsNA                                 associations
or qualitative)assisted by extension
               services                                                    assisted by
                                                                           extension services
Date achieved 01/01/2000                                                   12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       85% of the target achieved for producers and 70% of the target achieved for

achievement)   producer associations.

Indicator 4 :  Number of forestry concessions awarded and number of forest concessions with
               management plans approved increased
                                                                           471 forestry

               1 forestry concession                                       concessions
Value                                                                      awarded
(quantitative  awarded                  NA                                 191 forestry
or qualitative)No forestry concessions
               with management plans                                       concessions with
                                                                           management plans
                                                                           approved
Date achieved 01/01/2000                                                   12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


                                              8

Indicator 5 :   Adequate statistical data collected in order to monitor PROAGRI performance
                and to serve as reference to policy formulation.
Value           Only One agricultural
(quantitative   survey (1996) conducted NA
or qualitative) before PROAGRI
Date achieved 12/31/1998
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :   Number of land titles awarded provinces increased
Value                                                                       2,388 land titles
(quantitative   646 land titles awarded    NA                               awarded by
or qualitative) by provinces                                                provinces
Date achieved 01/01/2000                                                    12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                 DO                          IP             Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1      06/28/1999           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    0.00
  2      12/20/1999           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    0.50
  3      12/22/1999           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    0.50
  4      06/12/2000           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    0.50
  5      06/20/2000           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    0.50
  6      12/20/2000           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    1.12
  7      06/22/2001           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    2.61
  8      12/20/2001           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    5.62
  9      04/24/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    7.26
  10     12/23/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    9.45
  11     06/27/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    9.45
  12     11/12/2003          Unsatisfactory              Satisfactory                    9.45
  13     06/01/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  13.36
  14     12/01/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  17.27
  15     06/29/2005           Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory             21.02
  16     12/29/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  23.92
  17     06/28/2006           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  27.92
  18     12/27/2006           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  27.92

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                 9

I. Disbursement Profile




                           10

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Note: The Agricultural Sector Public Expenditure Program (PROAGRI) was one of the
Bank's pioneering operations with regard to the adoption of a sector-wide approach (SWAp)
to agricultural development within an Adaptable Program Lending (APL) framework.
Although formally an Investment Lone (IL), it contained important elements of a
Development Policy Lending (DPL)-type operation, as noted below. This hybrid or "non-
standard" character has implications which need to be factored into the assessment of this
operation. This report tries to do that by providing additional relevant points of information
in various sections while adhering to the section guidelines.

Four features of the context at appraisal are important in terms of understanding project
objectives and design:

(i)     The agricultural sector was the key to addressing problem of mass poverty (two-
thirds of the rural population lived in absolute poverty) and to securing broad-based growth
(70% of rural livelihoods were tied to agriculture).

(ii)    Mozambique had emerged from a long civil war and the country faced severe food
shortages due to low levels of production and weather-related shocks. Improving the
country's food security was thus one of the highest priorities facing the government.
Improving productivity levels and farm incomes required extensive investments in public
goods as well as in market-based goods and services.

(iii)   The Ministry of Agriculture in Mozambique (referred to as MoA in this report - the
actual name and remit of the concerned ministry changed twice during the project's lifetime,
as noted below) was weak and marginalized, lacking the resources, skills, institutional
capacity and presence at the ground level to provide effective support. It essentially played a
counterpart role to the many donor-assisted projects in the sector, and its own engagement
with the agriculture sector largely consisted largely of direct interventions and support
operations. In sum, an effective institutional platform for guiding development of the
agricultural sector was not available.

(iv)    Existing support activities in the agricultural sector were heavily dependent on donor
finance (accounting for over 90% of all public expenditures in agriculture in the 1990s),
provided through a large number (reportedly about 200) of disparate projects. These were not
organized under any national development vision, strategy or program/approach or by
uniformity of geographical coverage.

This situation analysis led the government and key donors to agree on the following strategic
points with regard to development of the agricultural sector: (a) the need to build up the
capacity of MoA to function as the main institution for planning, coordinating and supporting
agricultural sector growth; (b) the necessity of shifting donor assistance to the agricultural
sector out of the traditional project mode (characterized by well-defined but narrowly focused
geographical and/or sub-sectoral interventions, project-specific implementation arrangements
and transaction costs duplicated across donors), as it had so far neither led to a sector-wide
development strategy or program nor contributed to growth in capacity of the MoA - this
shared determination of the government and donors to move external assistance out of the


                                             11

project mode was at the root of PROAGRI's hybrid characteristic (as an IL ­ DPL blend);
and (c) the importance of taking a long-term approach (15-year, within an APL framework)
with regard to institutional and capacity building and its development outcomes.

Owing to these strategic considerations, PROAGRI Phase I had some non-standard features,
with implications for its implementation and outcomes, which need to be noted in
undertaking its evaluation:

    · Unlike typical ILs, whose components comprise activities that are causally linked to
        project outputs and objectives, the PROAGRI "program" (as it is called in the Project
        Appraisal Document or PAD) components did not specify a particular set of activities.
        This is because program design involved providing non-earmarked funding, through
        the government budget system, to finance the entire expenditure program of the MoA
        over a five-year period. Activities were therefore to be decided by the government
        through annual expenditure plans. This has implications for results framework and
        indicators ­ see also 2.1 below.
    · Akin to DPLs, the focus of most of actions expected was on modifications to policies,
        institutions and procedures at the level of public institutions in the agricultural sector
        (see Basic Principles, PAD Annex 11, Attachment 2 ­ the main design document for
        PROAGRI I). These reforms were both more extensive and across a wider spectrum
        (see 2.1 below) than is the case for typical ILs. Again, this has implications for the
        type of outcomes/development impacts be expected, and their measurement (see 3.2
        in this regard).
    · As the first phase of a three-part APL operation, the expected outcomes of PROAGRI
        I ­ mainly process improvements ­ were designed to stimulate realization of the
        PROAGRI's overall development outcomes by the end of the program period.
        Evaluated through a conventional IL lens (as implicitly done in some commentaries
        of PROAGRI I), these outcomes can look intermediate in nature (e.g., not enough
        "impact on the ground"). While, as a separate matter, PROAGRI I design can be
        criticized for lack of focus on specific development outcomes (see 3.2 below), it is
        important to recognize that these "intermediate results" do constitute the framework,
        agreed at appraisal, for evaluating the achievements of PROAGRI I.
    · The program was also seen as a pilot for enhanced coordination among twenty donors
        at appraisal (later, ten more donors joined in through the Common Fund Flow
        Mechanism ­ see 1.7 below ­ and another ten participated through other forms of
        collaboration) with differing perspectives and procedures. This has implications for
        the quality and speed of decision-making, nature of interaction with MoA and
        supervisions.

The PROAGRI program was strategically aligned with relevant country and Bank
development strategies. In the 1990s, the Mozambique government had undertaken a
substantial program of macroeconomic and policy reforms. Most of the major policy-induced
distortions in the agricultural sector had been removed. In recognition of the institutional
constraints that impeded growth, the focus of the reform agenda was beginning to move from
public policies to public institutions, with the aim of improving public performance and
supporting widespread growth. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), in line with
this development goal, identified three strategic priorities: ensuring broad-based economic
growth, human resource development (including government institutional capacity) and
strengthening of development partnerships among government, donors and other stakeholders.


                                             12

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The objective of PROAGRI I was to put in place improved institutional arrangements for
financing and delivery of agricultural services for smallholders, and capacity to efficiently
and effectively provide essential public and merit good functions of the MoA. (The objective
of the overall, 15-year PROAGRI was to improve the impact of public expenditure in
securing an enabling environment for sustainable and equitable growth in the rural sector
such that poverty is reduced and food security improved, while the physical and social
environment is protected.)

PAD (Annex 1) lists the following indicators for the PDO in the program design summary:
Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAP in Portuguese) restructured; changes in MoA
staffing (number, type and qualification of staff); percentage of technical services contracted
out; percentage of budget and staff allocated to provinces; farmers share of producer retail
price; number of traders/region in produce and input supply; elimination of entry and trade
restrictions; and percentage growth in government revenues from agriculture.

It should be noted that this mix of process and impact related indicators varies considerably
in the extent to which the different indicators are directly influenced by expected actions.
(Neither the components nor the Basic Principles actually describe project actions ­ see 1.5
below.) The levels of these indicators, at appraisal and at completion, typically were not
specified but expected to be defined during the course of implementation.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
No formal revision.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
This is not clearly specified in the PAD. As the program essentially provided funding for
MoA activities focused largely on its capacity building and enhancement, the primary target
group arguably would comprise relevant MoA staff who would be the direct beneficiaries of
the investments. On the other hand, the purpose of the reform program aimed at MoA was to
improve agricultural support services for the country's agricultural producers. Causally
therefore, the agricultural producers comprised the secondary target group although, as noted,
they were clearly central to the relevance of the program development objective. (This is
another instance where the hybrid nature of the program complicates the assessment of
impacts, since beneficiary identification is not attempted for DPLs).

1.5 Original Components
The PAD lists eight thematic components which were congruent with functional divisions in
MoA at appraisal: (i) Institutional Development; (ii) Agricultural Research; (ii) Agricultural
Extension; (iv) Support for Crop Production; (v) Livestock Support Services; (vi) Forestry
and Wildlife Management; (vii) Irrigation; and (viii) Land Management. These components
were notionally clustered into three sub-programs: Institutional Development (component (i),
US$62.3 million); Agricultural Support Services (components (ii) ­ (v), US$84.3 million);
and Natural Resource Management (components (vi) ­ (viii), US$69.9 million).

As mentioned, given the unique PROAGRI arrangement of non-earmarked funding of the
totality of MoA activities, the components do not describe actions but in fact the results of
activities likely to be included ­ according to understanding reached in the Basic Principles -


                                             13

in the (annual) work plans of the eight different national directorates of MoA. (Note, these
divisions themselves were open to change following a functional analysis of MoA's sectoral
roles).

It is noteworthy that the de facto program design document was the Basic Principles which
formed the main compact between government and the donors. The Basic Principles provided
the framework used to review implementation progress by government and the donor group.
However, consistent with the emphasis on government ownership, the Basic Principles also
do not prescribe project actions as such but provide a general guidance framework that also
served to determine eligibility for funding of planned MoA actions.

1.6 Revised Components
No formal revision.

1.7 Other significant changes
Change in Remit of MoA. Since PROAGRI funded the totality of MoA activities the scope of
the program was altered, in effect, by two changes in the structure, scope and remit MoA
during the project lifetime. In January 2000 the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAP
in Portuguese) was expanded into the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
(MADER). However, in 2005, it was re-organized around its core function as the Ministry of
Agriculture (MINAG).

Common Fund Flow Mechanism. In the early years of program implementation donor
funding arrangements followed different modalities, with International Development
Association (IDA) support being provided through Statement of Expenditures (SOE)-based
arrangements. However, in 2001 a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) agreed between
the government and key donors established the operational and legal framework that allowed
funds from the Bank and other donors to be channeled through a Common Flow of Funds
Mechanism (CFFM). This marked an important milestone in donor harmonization towards
use of government procedures and helped simplify program implementation and supervision.
However, it took the World Bank 18 months to disburse through this procedure, and then it
took again more than a year to do a subsequent disbursement.

Credit Extensions. There were three extensions of IDA credit, with the project finally closing
two years later than scheduled on 31 December 2006. The initial extensions were made to
allow implementation of some key activities which would help achieve project objectives; the
last extension was made to facilitate, among others, implementation of activities in support of
the Avian Flu Surveillance and Preparedness Plan.

Funding Allocations. There was a significant reallocation of resources within project
components over the lifetime of the project (see Annex 1(a)). The main increase occurred in
the Crop Production component (actual expenditure was 264% of appraisal estimate) and
there was some additional spending on Institutional Development (115% of PAD). On the
other hand, amounts spent on other components were significantly lower than estimated:
Research (68% of PAD), Extension (47%), Livestock (27%), Land Management (26%),
Forestry and Wildlife (29%), and Irrigation (21%). The increase in crop production
component is partly explained by inclusion of large a cashew production support operation
(not anticipated in PAD). Overall, however, it is difficult to infer the significance of changes
in cost allocations across components from project implementation point of view. The


                                            14

expenditure patterns were determined by annual MoA work plans which responded to various
contemporary considerations and were not necessarily tied strongly to PAD estimates of
component expenditures.

Bank withdrawal of direct funding for PROAGRI II. In 2004, the Bank decided to opt out of
the planned Phase II of PROAGRI. This move was unwelcome to donor partners who
regarded it as reneging on an implicit commitment, agreed at appraisal, to support two further
five-year phases of PROAGRI, which would also finance MoA's core functions. In the
Bank's view however the move does not necessarily imply any weakening of commitment or
reduction in volume of support to agriculture but rather switch to different, preferred
financing modality. The Bank would allocate funds for direct budget support (DBS) linked to
Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs); and the MoA could access these annually after
making a suitable case for it.

The move to substitute DBS funds for earmarked sectoral support is plausible and
intrinsically appealing. It involves a merit aspect to fund allocation and is likely to lead,
through the induced competition, to more relevant, effective and efficient use of funds.
However, in the context of PROAGRI, this step is also precipitate. By design, PROAGRI I
interventions were part of long-term process of institutional transformation, and were likely
undertaken on the expectation of a predictable, long-term funding scenario. Introducing
uncertainty into future fund flows, even when it does not affect overall volume, can inhibit
investments in longer-term, multi-stage or "deeper" reforms. However, it is notable that in
practice there has been no increase from government resources to the agricultural sector from
2004 onwards, contrary to what may have been anticipated.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The background analysis that underpinned the project - viz, inadequacy of fragmented,
"projectised" donor assistance for fostering agricultural sector development, in the absence of
national programs and institutional capacities ­ correctly reflected the lessons from recent
sectoral experience. The solution adopted ­ pooling donor support to underpin a 3-phase, 15-
year, MoA-owned development program with a significant focus on policy and institutional
actions ­ was innovative (involved features unusual in IL operations and with few prior
examples), bold (involved deliberate engagement with significant risks) and commendable
(involved a superior but more demanding operation, in both design and implementation terms,
than the easy, well-trodden alternative of continuing with project-based lending).

Project design was complex as well as novel ("non-standard" for an IL, showing again the
hybrid nature). The project was complex in at least two aspects: (i) it involved actions across
a wide spectrum including structural and functional reform of MoA, capacity building and
human resource management, planning and budgeting processes, financial management and
procurement systems, decentralization, policies and regulations for natural resource
management, agricultural research and extension, and so on; and (ii) it envisaged significant
harmonization between donors regarding rules and procedures to be used to support MoA.
Project design was novel (for an IL) in not specifying programs actions (grouped into
components) but relying instead on a set of Basic Principles to guide actions of MoA to
which non-earmarked funding was being committed.



                                            15

The project objectives were relevant but not operational or measurable as stated. Importantly,
an "outcome" focus ­ "behavioral" responses of MoA (e.g., greater/improved delivery of
support services) stimulated by the enhancement of MoA capacities and resources ­ was
lacking. The associated indicators were either too "low" (process/output level) or "high"
(impact level) on the causal chain, often leaving out the outcomes level. A clearer articulation
of outcomes expected would have improved both (i) the results orientation in implementation
and supervision; and (ii) the overall accountability of the program (by helping to verify
whether program interventions have generated expected "behavioral" responses).

The project also lacked a results framework that linked project intervention strategy to results
through operational, monitorable indicators. As the main project design document, the Basic
Principles were of limited use in this regard, being too numerous (over 50 in all), diverse (a
mix of vision, impact, outcome and output level statements) and lacking operational
indicators (with specified ex ante and ex post levels) which could used to monitor
implementation progress and fine-tune implementation strategy (see also 2.3 below).

Being both a complex and a path-breaking project (especially in terms of initiating public
sector reform in Mozambique), the project required significant levels of capacity in the
implementing agencies. These and associated risks were assessed properly and attempts were
made to put in place mitigation measures through, e.g., deliberately front-loading the project
with institutional strengthening and capacity building measures in the first three years.

Finally, PROAGRI was the first sector program in Mozambique and one of the first such
programs in Africa and the world. Its preparation predates Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers
(PRSPs) and the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), before methodologies for this
type of program with budget support modalities were prepared and standardized.

2.2 Implementation
Many factors played an enabling role in project implementation. First, the government
maintained its strong commitment to PROAGRI. There was no policy switch or reversal, and
the government provided a supportive macroeconomic and policy environment. Second, an
effective dialogue and coordination mechanism was established between the government and
donor partners which helped provide stability despite important changes in the overall
operating environment (e.g., change in MoA remits, ministerial and other high-level changes,
and exit of some founding members from and entry of some new donors into the PROAGRI
donor group). Third, supervision by the donor group was regular and intense (weekly
meetings at program coordination level, bi-monthly meetings at the ministerial level, two
review meetings each year with participation of provincial representatives, and joint field
supervision missions), providing almost continuance guidance and feedback to the
implementing authorities (e.g., on consistency of proposed annual plan activities with Basic
Principles). This arguably helped to offset, to a considerable extent, the lack of a well-defined
results framework

There were also several factors that adversely affected the quality of implementation. First,
throughout the implementation phase there was no effective Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E)
system which made it difficult to gauge implementation success. Second, there were
weaknesses in the project information system, such as the lack of integration between
accounting software and planning/budgeting software, which made it difficult to relate
financial information to the execution of plan and budget. Third, the hybrid nature of the


                                             16

operation also exerted an impact. Unlike the case in DPLs, fiduciary pressure was felt by
donors to track or account for the resources they provided despite the fact that the majority of
the program funding was non-earmarked. This presumably explained the enormous
supervisory time and resources initially spent on checking compatibility of MoA's annual
expenditure programs with the Basic Principles. The preoccupation of supervision with
performing these due fiduciary roles may also explain relative lack of supervisory attention
with the development outcomes ("impact on the ground") of various interventions, noted in
various reviews (e.g., Quality Assurance Group (QAG) 2000 and Mid-Term Review (MTR)
2002). Fourth, adequate implementation arrangements were not in place to ensure (i) cost
control or cost effectiveness on part of the implementing agency and (ii) induce compliance
with "harder" reform steps which tended to get postponed (e.g., restructuring following the
functional analysis, strategic staffing, M&E, asset management). Fifth, there was also a lack
of uniformity in donors' opinions and information needs in relation to PROAGRI. As a
consequence, MoA had to spend a considerable time on occasions in responding to different
donors' demands for information or action. Finally, there was lack of timely availability of
funds to the implementing agency, especially in the initial phase.

Disbursements of IDA funds were lagging during the first half of the project implementation,
mainly for two reasons: (i) preferential use by the Government of grant funds from other
donor sources over the IDA credit, and (ii) slow disbursements of SOE-based IDA funds until
the Bank joined the CFFM. At project closure, after three extensions, about $4 million of
IDA credit remained undisbursed. During the remaining four months the Government was
able to disburse only part of these funds due to delays in submission of audit reports, leaving
an outstanding balance of $2.7 million IDA credit by April 30, 2007, which had to be
cancelled.

Factors outside the control of government and implementing agency included the natural
catastrophes of three droughts and two floods during PROAGRI's 7-year implementation
period.

A QAG Panel rated supervision effort for FY00 as Satisfactory overall, with some elements
of best practice. It commended the diligent approach to development of common financial
management and procurement mechanisms and the stress on strong client ownership but also
cautioned on the need to pay more attention to defining and monitoring specific outcomes,
especially relating to impact on the rural poor. Subsequent experience has validated both the
commendation and the caution of the QAG Panel.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
M&E was a disappointing aspect of this program's design and implementation.

Design: The program lacked a "results framework" which laid out the objectives (in
operational terms with measurable indicators) of the program and causal relationships and
underlying assumptions about how program actions will lead to intended outcomes. The
indicators and milestones listed in the PAD varied in their suitability, being at times too
"low" or too "high" on the causal chain, with chain itself not always being clear. Further, the
expected levels of indicators were not necessarily specified in measurable terms, and baseline
or benchmark information was generally missing.




                                            17

An attempt was made towards the end of the project (in 2003-04) to establish an M&E
system. After delays, caused in part by inappropriate technical advice, the M&E unit was
finally established in end-2005. However, it continues to suffer from problems such as lack
of staff, both in terms of quantity and quality. The Ministry produced its first consolidated
annual report (for 2005) in mid-2006.

Implementation: lacking a clear and purposeful M&E framework, no special arrangement
appears to have been made to collect relevant "impact", process or even cost data at regular
intervals. This has created a severe paucity of usable data.

Utilization: absence of an appropriate framework and relevant data suggests that potentially
relevant information was not necessarily available to inform decision-making and evaluate
options. In some cases, e.g., outsourcing was undertaken with the intention of learning
through experimentation about the desirability of alternative service delivery options ­ but
without any clear system for collecting relevant performance data, which would facilitate
analysis of the relative effectiveness of service delivery and cost-efficiency of the option.

The weaknesses with respect to the M&E framework and consequent lack of relevant data
have impeded ICR evaluation. Information on baseline conditions and "without project
situations" ("control" data) have had to be inferred, where practicable, from more indirect,
qualitative evidence. It has also made efficiency analysis (in Annex 3) more restricted in
scope.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
The Bank and other donors emphasized the need for an adequate Financial Management
system in MoA. Substantial weaknesses were noted in the 2001 and 2002 Audit reports.
Following supervision inputs from the Bank and donors, there was in general a marked
improvement in quality and compliance with guidelines in the financial management reports.
The development of common procurement procedures was also accorded high priority and
completed in May 2001. Since then, both technical assistance (TA) and supervision efforts
have been focused on consolidation as well as decentralization of MoA's procurement
activities, with provincial procurement units carrying out a majority of the procurement
activities. The 2003 Procurement Review showed that the MoA procurement system was
working satisfactorily; however, the 2005 Review showed some decline in the quality of
procurement procedures, especially in provinces. As in the case of financial management,
this is in large part due to high staff turn-over and also institutional changes arising from the
decentralization process.

The project has been in compliance with all applicable safeguard policies.             The MoA
established the Environment Unit that has been active in raising awareness on potential
negative environmental impacts of some agricultural activities. The annual work plans were
routinely scrutinized from the safeguards point of view, and when needed the Environmental
Unit advised the implementing agencies to reformulate activities with potential negative
environmental     impact.    After   three   environmental    surveys    focusing   on    specific
regions/provinces, a Strategic Environmental Assessment was prepared in 2005.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
At the end of Phase I, PROAGRI was continued by a group of donors using, as an interim
measure, the MOU of Phase I until February 2007 when the MOU for Phase II was finally


                                              18

signed. The overall structure of Phase II is similar to Phase I: provision of direct budgetary
support to MoA to strengthen its core functions and implement its Annual Plan of Activities.
However, in terms of its strategic approach and results framework, Phase II is closely linked
to the second national poverty reduction strategy (Action Plan for Reducing Absolute Poverty
or PARPA).

While this arrangement provides almost seamless continuity, there are implicit tensions that
would need to be addressed, the main one being the trade-off between funding further
institutional strengthening of MoA as opposed to providing more resources to frontline
activities that impact more directly at the producer/client level. On the one hand, more
investment in MoA is needed for many of the Phase I reforms to take deep root and mature
(without which long-term service delivery capacities of MoA will be undermined). On the
other hand, there is increasing lack of support, among both government and donors, for
continued investments in MoA as opposed to financing interventions that produce substantive
outcomes on the ground.

The MOU for Phase II encompasses a matrix of 23 indicators, with targets, for 2009,
covering twelve domains of activities of MoA. Four of these indicators are also part of a
larger indicators matrix used to monitor government performance with respect to the Budget
Support system. The M&E arrangement for this Phase comprises the establishment of M&E
units in all central, provincial and district units with the responsibility to collect and process
relevant operational and performance-related information for various agricultural sub-sectors.
Beyond this set of agreed indicators, it will be very important for Phase II to put together
some agreed delivery targets along with prescribed service standards, cost norms and so on.
These can provide some framework for accountability will improve performance and keep
costs down. A sector MTEF is being developed to improve strategic allocations to priority
sectors based on output forecast and reflecting a better priority setting and cost effectiveness.

An additional factor that should be recognized is that PROAGRI made a conscious effort to
align itself to the PRSP and to the overall Government-donor dialogue structure around PRSP
implementation      and   direct  budget     support   modalities.   This    was    achieved   by
reviewing procedures and timing of sectoral reviews, contributing to overall government
monitoring methodology, reviewing commitment and disbursement schedule modalities, and
contributing actively to joint donor-government reviews at PRSP/DBS level.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The operation has significant current relevance. Mozambique's current development strategy
(e.g., the PRSP) and the Bank CAS (now called Country Partnership Strategy or CPS) are
focused on poverty reduction, broad-based economic growth and creating an enabling
environment for private sector operations. Given the importance of agricultural development
in achieving these goals, and the given the pivotal role of MoA in promoting sectoral
development, the PROAGRI I objective of institutional development and capacity building
clearly continues to be relevant. That said, the build-up of MoA capacity through the
implementation of PROAGRI I has necessarily altered the overall implementation
circumstances. In the changed setting, it is more feasible - apart from being more desirable
(in line with country strategy and Bank CPS) - to allocate resources to operations targeting
poverty reduction and economic growth more directly. Hence PROAGRI's objectives, design


                                              19

and implementation arrangements, whose core focus was the institutional development of
MoA, would no longer command the high priority they did at appraisal.

Put differently, it would be sub-optimal for a PROAGRI II to merely replicate or scale up
PROAGRI I. Rather PROAGRI II should involve a re-focusing such that support for
institutional development would be linked more directly, and instrumentally, to poverty
reduction and broad-based growth targets. This is of course consistent with the spirit of the
APL approach and, in fact, is also in line with the adjustments being made to PROAGRI II by
the government and donor support group.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Overall, the PDO has been satisfactorily achieved given the project context.

In assessing the achievement of project objectives, it is relevant to recall (see section 1) that
the PAD-listed indicators do not necessarily provide a sufficient or appropriate basis to
undertake the requisite analysis. Also, unlike the case for typical ILs, it is not meaningful to
build up the analysis through separate evaluations of achievements by components, since the
components do not strictly represent a structured program of actions aimed at producing the
desired actions.

Broadly speaking, the objective of putting in place "improved institutional arrangements for
financing and delivery of agricultural services ..." (in MoA) would refer to improvements in
overall resource allocation (planning and budgeting) and internal management systems
(financial, administrative, informational, and so on). Similarly, the objective of improving
"capacity to efficiently and effectively provide essential public and merit good functions of
MoA" would refer to structural/functional reorganization, human resource management
(upgrading staff skills and deploying them in provinces and districts, closer to clients), and
improving the range and quality of technical services provided in relation to production
support and natural resource management. (Clearly, the distinction is not exclusive, e.g.,
improved management systems would also help in efficient provision of public goods).
Annex 2 attempts to collate the relevant evidence in this regard ­ the picture is partial and
uneven, partly due to the lack of a functioning M&E system.

Note that Annex 2 mainly provides a "before- /after-project" comparative snapshot. However,
under the commonly accepted hypothesis that without PROAGRI I, MoA would have at best
maintained its pre-project status quo, Annex 2 also arguably provides a "without- /with-
project snapshot. Another thing to note about Annex 2 is that, given the "intermediate
results" nature of some of its outcomes ­ as mentioned in section 1.1. ­ the distinction
between outputs and outcomes is not entirely a conventional one. For instance, with regard to
agricultural extension, number of extension officers and area of coverage is a project output
(the result of various reform activities and so on), while the (enhanced) provision of
agricultural support services is more an outcome relating to the PDO of improved "capacity
to efficiently and effectively provide essential public and merit good functions of MoA".

The Annex 2 evidence is in line with a broader picture that suggests that PROAGRI has been
a path breaking experience in the country's public reform process. There is no doubt that
PROAGRI has transformed MoA, from a weak, marginalized ministry, providing largely
counterpart functions to donor-financed projects, into one of the foremost ministries
regarding restructuring and reform issues. There has been a culture change from a ministry


                                             20

focused on direct interventions towards one aimed at regulation and facilitation, and from a
top-down operational style towards a decentralized, client-focused one.

Improved Institutional Arrangements
With regard to this aspect of the PDO, there has been significant progress. The planning and
budgeting process ­ and hence the capacity for more efficient and effective resource
allocation ­ has been significantly improved. Annual planning and budgeting is now a de-
concentrated, systematic and time-bound activity, with participation from districts to central
level bodies. The practice of quarterly planning and budgeting has been developed to allow
concurrent adjustments to annual plans. Triennial expenditure scenarios have begun to be
prepared, and discussed with MoF to agree a medium-term allocation of resources. There has
also been a significant de-centralization in spending, with a majority (60%) of the budget
being directly allocated to province level and below for expenditure according to locally
determined priorities. Furthermore, there has been a change in the way these funds are used.
Before PROAGRI the use of funds for provinces/districts was still largely controlled by
central authorities. Now the use of funds in provinces/districts is guided by local planning
processes which better reflects local development needs.

In the area of internal management systems, a modern financial management system has been
instituted. Procedures and accounting practices are in line with commonly accepted
international standards, and subject to annual auditing. A decentralized procurement
management system has also been introduced. Further, setting up of the CFFM, transfer of
funds directly to provinces and districts, and de-concentration of financial management have
all contributed significantly to capacity building at various levels and are facilitating the on-
going public administration decentralization reforms.

Overall, PROAGRI has succeeded in changing the scenario of an MoA beset with
fragmented donor-driven projects with one pursuing a coherent agriculture development
program which has allowed donors to align their assistance with the government vision and
goals.

Improved Capacity for Public/Merit Goods Service Provision
With regard to this aspect of the PDO as well, there has been notable progress. An extensive
functional analysis of MoA has been undertaken and MoA has been restructured. Overall
staff qualifications have been improved, initial steps to introduce a human resource
management system have been undertaken and a increased number of staff has been allocated
to province level activities. Physical infrastructure, equipment and working conditions have
been improved. This has resulted in an expansion of ground-level services (see Annex 2).

With regard to public and merits goods provision, significant outcomes have also been
realized with regard to wildlife and forestry, land management and animal health and disease
protection (see Annex 2). Agriculture research has been restructured through the
establishment of a unified national agriculture research institute presiding over four zonal
research centers. Local level linkage with extension services and Non-Governmental
Organizations (NGOs) has enabled the adoption of several disease tolerant, short-cycle crop
varieties and clones. Lack of baseline information precludes assessment of the advances
made in terms of extension support.




                                             21

Shortcomings
There have been of course various shortcomings. First, progress in reform has been uneven,
with areas like M&E, asset management and human resource management exhibiting
significant problems. Given the inter-linked nature of institutional change, the "drag" effect
of these problems lowers overall MoA capacity and efficiency.

Second, delay, uncertainty and partial measures have undermined efficacy of reforms even in
areas showing success. For example, the functional analysis of MoA ­ a high-profile measure
and a key tool in recasting MoA's role from old-style direct input-and-subsidy support to that
of enabling private-sector led growth - was initiated in 2000 and completed only in 2003,
with restructuring occurring largely in 2005 (the original closing date of the project was end-
2004). There are several aspects to this. Given the direct link between organization structure
and staff issues (job descriptions, career paths, staffing strategy, etc) uncertainty generated by
this protracted reform process has crucially affected the pace and context of human resource
management reforms. Also, the overall picture of change is a mixed one: while the number of
directorates has been reduced, there is a sharp rise in lower-tier departments and divisions
(see Annex 2), and little reduction in overall staff numbers (although regular staff numbers
are down), which belies expectations of downsizing expressed in the PAD. Finally, there is
still understandably the need for streamlining and consolidating these reforms in order to
obtain the full range of their benefits.

Overall
A "satisfactory" rating for achievement of the PDO is based on the following considerations:
(i) institutional reform, essentially requiring behavioral change at its core, is always difficult,
requiring changes in relevant incentives, expectations and ownership structures. This is
evident from the relative difficulty in attaining significant institutional reform in the context
of ILs generally in other countries as well; (ii) the "initial conditions" for PROAGRI were
challenging, involving a weak, marginalized ministry with low capacities, and a country with
little experience of public sector reform. Despite this, there was a significant process of
institutional reform which was sustained without policy switches or reversals over a
relatively long period. Interestingly, this is in line with the assessment of the government and
donor group commissioned evaluation of PROAGRI I (December 2006) which concluded
that the project had obtained most of its expected results.

In some assessments, PROAGRI I is criticized for failing to deliver specific development
outcomes on the ground ­ a view that has also gained currency within the country. This
however confuses criticism of project design ­ i.e., that it ought to have included specific
development outcomes in its PDO - with assessment of performance within the framework of
the current PDO. As remarked in section 1, although these appear more in the nature of
"intermediate results" than final, beneficiary-focused outcomes, this is entirely consistent
with APL approach and the overall PROAGRI design.

3.3 Efficiency
Given that the project is focused mainly on process-related improvements pertaining to
institutional arrangements and capacity building, it would have been appropriate for
efficiency analysis to focus on cost effectiveness of resources spent on MoA (through unit
rate norms, service standards and other yardsticks as appropriate). However, this approach
was not adopted in the PAD and, owing to weaknesses in M&E and consequent lack of



                                               22

relevant information, on both output and cost sides, such exercise could not also be
undertaken at ICR.

The PAD analysis of efficiency essentially involved estimating rates of return. In view of the
"hybrid" nature of the operation, the PAD adopted a twin-track approach of estimating
returns to investments at the component and sub-component levels and also at the overall
agriculture sector level for the program as a whole. Following the PAD methodology, the
ICR estimated returns for the various components and sub-components for which sufficient
data was available (see Annex 3). There were two overlapping sub-sectors in these two
exercises: (i) overall crop production where the PAD estimate was 28.7% (Financial Rate of
Return or FRR) but the ICR estimate was 12.3% (FRR) and 14.8% (Economic Rate of Return
or ERR); and (ii) livestock, where the PAD estimate was 26.5% (FRR) but the ICR estimate
was 15.2% (FRR) and 15.4% (ERR). The main reason for this appears to be significantly
lower yield growth than forecast (see Annex 3).

At the program level, the PAD also estimated that a PROAGRI-induced incremental growth
rate of 0.76% p.a. in agricultural GDP (AGDP) would yield an ERR of 16% on all PROAGRI
investments. The significance of this exercise is not clear since, to operationalize this
measure for assessing efficiency of PROAGRI investments, one would need to have a model
of what the "without-project" AGDP growth rate would be. This is complicated since past
trends are not necessarily an appropriate basis for prediction, given significant weather
variability and influence of other factors. That said, for comparability with the PAD, this
exercise has been updated in Annex 3. Following the PAD, the ICR also estimated the
minimum incremental AGDP growth required for the PROAGRI investment to break-
even (on all project costs MTn 4613 million). The estimates turn out to be 0.34% p.a. for
12% ERR (equal to opportunity cost of capital) and 0.38% for 16% ERR (equal to the
reference value used in PAD).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Satisfactory. The relevance of the project objective is significant given the still pivotal role of
MoA in developing Mozambique's relatively backward agriculture system. Satisfactory
institutional and policy outcomes have been achieved. These appear dramatic even in
comparison with the situation a few years back (or in some ministries today). Efficiency
analysis, based on some simplifying assumptions, suggests that, at the component and sub-
component levels at least, the outcomes generated by the investments generate reasonable
ERRs.

There is an apparent disconnect between Satisfactory rating for overall outcomes and
Moderately Satisfactory rating for most elements of Bank and Borrower performance. This
"disconnect" is however explained by the fact that institutional change ­ which is primarily
the basis of the Satisfactory outcome rating ­ turned out to be a process in which the initial
reforms (e.g..,decentralization of planning, decision-making and budgeting) created
reinforcing effects for further change. In the PROAGRI context they created enabling
conditions at lower levels (through modifying constraints/opportunities, providing
empowerment and incentives) for further change, so that the overall extent of reform was not
circumscribed by actions taken by (top-level) implementing agencies or donors alone.




                                            23

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Annex 3 has attempted to identify and estimate the project's impact on poverty. In general,
PROAGRI interventions are likely to have had a poverty alleviating impact through
support for cashew production, improvements in basic food crop production and overall
agricultural growth. Although precise numbers are hard to estimate, Annex 3 provides an
analysis of PROAGRI's linkages with poverty reduction as well as the likely extent of its
impact.

There was no particular targeting or differential treatment approach with regard to either
gender or social groups in this project.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Unlike other ILs, most of the actions under this program focused on institutional
development which has been discussed in section 3.2 above.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The MoA's transformational experience under PROAGRI has helped make it a pilot of public
sector reform in the country. The government's Technical Unit for Public Sector Reform
(UTRESP in Portuguese) regards the reform work done under PROAGRI I as relevant to
national needs and is attempting to use the processes and experiences to develop best-practice
approaches for other reform efforts. MoA's planning and budgeting system is also being used
a source of learning by the Ministry of Finance and other Ministries.

Within the Bank, experience with issues and difficulties arising in the financial management
of this program was a critical input in the subsequent development of financial management
guidelines for budgetary support operations.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N.A.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Moderate: The moderate risk rating reflects the following assessment of the potential sources
of risks and the likely mitigating effect of existing/likely arrangements:

· Financial: There is likely to be a significant financial shortfall with respect to continuing
    MoA's current level of activities. Although reliable data is not available in this regard,
    Annex 3 calculations (see especially Table 5) suggest that the current level of government
    funding is likely to meet only about 30% of the expected annual expenditure. Of course
    this is less dire that it may appear since nearly half of the government expenditure is
    financed through external assistance. On the positive side, this financial gap is expected
    to be filled over the next few years PROAGRI - II funds. There will be some pressure for
    cost trimming and downsizing since PROAGRI-II donors will likely push for a greater
    share of budget to be spent on frontline activities. This will have to be accommodated
    through better cost management. In this regard although the MoA has shown a general
    lack of cost consciousness so far, a medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) has
    been prepared in March 2007 whose objective is to avoid unproductive spending and
    generally make better use of scarce resources. (The risk can also be mitigated through
    rising government contribution; however, given on-going decentralization of


                                              24

    development administration, its prospect is not clear. The 3-year plan framework can
    clearly help in anticipating and managing this risk).
· Retention of Qualified Staff: Some key activities have been affected by turnover of
    trained staff, partly due to uncertainty surrounding the next phase and partly due to
    absence of improvement in pay conditions. The recent signing of MOU for the next phase
    would help reduce staff uncertainty over near-term developments in MoA, especially in
    view of the fact that approximately 30% of staff have been hired on a contract basis,
    many of whom are in fact financed by PROAGRI.. MoA's attempts to improve pay
    conditions through various some incentive schemes have not yet been acted upon by
    Ministry of Finance. That said, the overall improvement in work environment through
    investments in assets, capacities and management systems should still succeed in
    retaining a significant quorum of skilled staff.
· Decentralization: the government has recently made a concerted push for decentralization
    of development following a district/area approach (where relevant sectors would be
    amalgamated into one department - "Economic Services" - reporting to the district/area
    head. This is distinct from de-concentration practiced by MoA in which authority and
    finance were devolved down the line to lower tiers of the ministry. It is not yet clear how
    agriculture activities will be planned in this setting, and what relationship these regional
    entities will have with the surviving structures of MoA. It is possible, e.g., that because
    MoA is likely the better resourced ministry at the local level with greater capacities,
    decentralization may enhance the role and relevance of MoA.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

[Note: Given the unprecedented level of donor coordination in this project, the key
observables relating to ensuring quality at entry and quality of supervision are irretrievably
the outcomes of joint efforts of the different donors involved. Assessment of bank
performance below is therefore inevitably "conditioned" by this fact].

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Moderately Satisfactory. The Bank played a key role in supporting the PROAGRI concept
and in developing the PROAGRI I strategy, especially the focus on functional re-orientation
of MoA. PROAGRI I had a highly relevant objective at the time of preparation. The project
strategy of dealing root-and-branch with all MoA-related issues ­ role definition, skills
enhancement, planning and management processes, and institutional consolidation as well as
de-concentration ­ in one integrated operation was bold and commendable. An equally bold
and innovative aspect involved the parallel process of harmonization of donor lending
programs and procedures in agricultural sector on one platform. The project preparation
period was unusually long (45 months) and costly (USD895,710). This partly reflected (i) the
extensive analytical work and policy dialogue needed to put institutional reform and
functional reorganization of MoA firmly on the government's agenda and (ii) detailed
technical analysis of numerous sectors (agriculture research and extension, crop production,
livestock, forestry\wildlife management, irrigation and land management) which went well
beyond the preparation scope of a typical IL. However this long and extensively participatory
process was instrumental in building up strong government ownership and commitment and a
high level of donor coordination. Overall, it should be also recognized that the program was a
pioneering attempt in the sector, with few usable examples to look to.


                                            25

However, project design was lacking in two important respects. First, a set of clear, concise
and coherent "targets" (intermediate and final) that could be used as an implementation
management framework - to evaluate direction and success of implementation process and
re-calibrate as appropriate ­ was not agreed. Second, an institutionalized way of keeping
costs down and ensuring quality with respect to MoA activities (e.g., participatory
development of cost norms and service standards, systems for end-user feedback) was not
built in. This was important in a process where (i) ownership/responsibility was given to
MoA ­ rightly - for deciding annual plan activities, and hence the related expenditures; and
(ii) there was no other institution or system to which MoA was accountable for both quantity
and quality of its outputs. Moreover, this was particularly important for the long run, when
donor supervision would have ceased. These aspects affected program performance
subsequently.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Moderately Satisfactory. Supervision process was intense and diligent. It helped achieve the
following: (i) keep the focus of reform - through detailed, regular involvement - on the core
thrust areas (thus making up partially for the lack of a tightly defined formal program
framework was lacking); (ii) maintain a sense of "mission mode" even though PROAGRI in
practice included all the routine, day-to-day activities of MoA as well; (iii) help keep the
overall reform process on track, with continued government commitment and no significant
backtracking on key reform or design issues as agreed at appraisal; (iv) among donors,
organize a mature interaction platform, which individual members could enter or leave,
without derailing the overall program; and (v) undertake due diligence with respect to all
relevant fiduciary and safeguard issues.

However, the supervision process also had the following weaknesses: (i) some flagged
problems ­ e.g., M&E, asset registry - persisted for a long time, with the supervision process
patently unable to find a credible solution to continued non-compliance ­ reportedly, this
reflected problems inherent in reaching collective donor agreement on tough issues; (ii)
insufficient focus on development impacts; (iii) an inadequate/inappropriate skill mix, giving
the range of technical and institutional issues faced; and (iv) in Bank reports, while
shortcomings were properly identified, the ratings were at times more positive than supported
by the technical analysis.

Overall though, given the additional feature (possibly a constraint at times) of group
supervision, the gaps in design and the complexity in terms of range and scope of reform, the
supervision process worked well.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Moderately Satisfactory. Bank played a key role in developing this important and unusual
program, especially by taking the lead in elaborating the development vision for this sector ­
private sector led broad-based growth ­ and the stressing the need to re-define MoA's role
and re-focusing its priorities. The Bank has also played an active role in supervising and
facilitating implementation of the program which, despite facing design drawbacks and
complexities across a wide spectrum, has performed satisfactorily overall.




                                             26

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Satisfactory. Government contribution has been critical in ensuring project success. The
government has demonstrated strong and consistent support for PROAGRI during its long
preparation phase and for PROAGRI I during its seven-year implementation phase. Such a
long term commitment to a particular reform process is exceptional This commitment had
several important dimensions to it: (i) the government which was used to direct intervention
and support in agriculture (as mentioned in section 1.1) managed to hold that tendency
largely in check throughout this period; (ii) despite changes in leadership at the top, it
maintained overall commitment to the reform process, thus allowing MoA sufficient "space"
and flexibility to implement the program, without introducing extraneous demands or
priorities, which may have been inconsistent with the PROAGRI approach; and (iii) the long
period for reform afforded by the government to the MoA ­ through maintaining favorable
sectoral and policy framework with no switches or reversals ­ was no doubt instrumental in
shaping expectations and incentives in a way that was conducive to engendering institutional
reform (as mentioned in section 3.2).

Other elements of government support have included (i) making only one change in Program
Coordinator throughout the implementation period; (ii) allocating an increasing proportion of
national budget ­ about 1% before PROAGRI to 6% in 2004, but with significant variability
around the trend ­ to MoA; and (iii) encouraging ­ and enhancing sustainability of ­ reforms
by seeking to use key learning from the project for wider public sector reform (managed by
its Technical Unit for Public Sector Reform or UTRESP). Currently, the government is
continuing to implement PROAGRI II with the relevant group of donors.

Areas where government performance has been weak are (i) lack of timely and adequate
support to MoA's human resource reform process, especially in areas relating to general civil
service issues of pay and work conditions (where complementary input from government was
necessary); (ii) changing the remit of MoA twice during program lifetime, creating some
uncertainty regarding integrating related farm-focused development efforts in the rural space;
and (iii) insufficient oversight is some key areas relating especially to cost management and
control through e.g., the Ministry of Finance (MoF) in order to ensure compatibility with
national, affordable norms and hence long-run sustainability.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Moderately Satisfactory. The implementation effort of MoA is praiseworthy in many ways:
(i) despite evident capacity limitations, it has sustained reform efforts across a number of
complex areas, while undertaking routine work of the ministry and dealing with various
emergency situations (droughts, floods, disease incidence); (ii) in areas like planning and
budgeting, financial management, use of external audit, de-concentration and decentralization,
it has transformed itself from a weak, lagging ministry to a leading example for more general
public sector reform; (iii) throughout it has maintained good dialogue and coordination with
donors and key stakeholders; and (iv) overall, it has put itself in a significantly better position
for efficient resource allocation and sectoral advocacy than in the past, which was a key
objective of the program.




                                            27

Weaknesses in implementation effort relate to the following: (i) delay and shallow nature of
change in several areas like implementation of functional analysis and human resource
management reform; (ii) persistent problems in areas like M&E and asset management; (iii)
lesson learning from the on-going changes and experimentations was not well-organized; and
(iv) insufficiently pro-active in linking investments in its own capacity and skills to ensure
more effective delivery of support services.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Moderately Satisfactory. Overall, the borrower was strongly committed to the program and
persistent in implementation of it. It is continuing with the next phase of the program while
attempting to mainstream some elements of it the general public sector reform and the
dcentralization processes.

6. Lessons Learned

The following lessons arise from a review of the PROAGRI experience:

· It is possible to revive and re-position even weak public institutions in a short time
    provided there is sufficient depth of commitment and a multi-pronged reform strategy
    that is willing to address difficult or "long haul" issues as well.

· In lending operations with non-earmarked funding, it is both more realistic and judicious
    to manage/supervise by concentrating essentially on intermediate and final outcome
    indicators (rather than monitor how finances have been used and what outputs have been
    consequently produced). Apart from providing a results-orientation, it can also induce
    implementing agencies to be cost efficient while meeting outcome targets, if they know
    they can retain the resources so saved. Disbursement should be linked to the achievement
    of these targets.

· Functional analysis and re-structuring should be carried out early in the reform process
    since the relevance and effectiveness human resource development and many other
    reforms depend upon that.

· Massive capacity building efforts need to also focus on staff retention strategies
    (including public service pay and performance conditions and work place incentives).
    Upgradation of staff skills and capacities makes them attractive to other sectors, thus
    undermining the sustainability of the operations for which capacity investments were
    being undertaken.

· A clear articulation of expected outcomes is absolutely necessary at design stage. These
    outcomes should be embedded in a results framework that provides relevant, operational
    and measurable indicators.

· Sustained donor coordination around commonly agreed programs has a significant
    reinforcing effect on government ownership of and commitment to reform ­ a key
    conditional for institutional change.

· In case of joint supervision by a large number of donors, processes need to be worked out
    to ensure credible strategies of enforcement (in case of non-compliance with

                                               28

    activities/targets). This requires significant dialogue amongst donors leading to a
    common position regarding the optimal level of tolerance and the various trade-offs
    (between short- and long-term considerations and between various relevant objectives)
    that a situation of non-compliance gives rise to.

· When investing in capacity of public institutions who are sole providers of a good or
    service (i.e., facing no "market pressure" for quality and cost-efficiency) it is vital to
    simultaneously develop an institutionalized way of keeping costs down and quality high
    through, e.g., cost norms, service standards and systems for end-user feedback. These
    "markers" become even more important in the post-project phase when no supervisory
    pressure exists.

· Financial and institutional sustainability of expenditures should be carefully assessed
    from the onset of a program and an action plan established. This should include specific
    measures to establish and strictly enforce the needed rules and regulations for control of
    recurrent costs, such as management of vehicles and real estate, and recruitment and
    management of staff.

· For improved planning and prioritization of resources, it is important that the financial
    management system should be capable of tracking expenditures by program categories
    and sub-categories (i.e., components, sub-components, and so on). This is especially
    important in situations involving non-earmarked funds when clear planning and
    prioritization guidelines should be provided from "higher" (central/provincial) levels.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower has provided a comprehensive assessment of the PROAGRI project experience
and outcomes as well as lessons learned. There does not appear to be any implication to be
taken on board with regard to the ICR report.

The Borrower has also provided brief comments on the ICR report. There does not appear to
be any specific implication to be taken on board in this regard.

(b) Cofinanciers

The co-financiers have provided candid and helpful comments on the ICR report. Some the
issues they have raised relate to information used in ISRs (and reported in section F). As
mentioned, the ICR analysis itself relies on data collected and presented in Annex and not in
section F.

Other comments and points of information made by the co-financiers have been taken on
board and integrated into the ICR text at different places as appropriate.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

No comment received.


                                            29

                       Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


     Components       Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest Estimate     Percentage of
                          (USD M)                (USD M)             Appraisal (%)
Institutional
Development                        59.00                   68.10        115.4

Agricultural Research              25.40                   17.30         68.1
Agricultural Extension             16.70                    7.80         46.7
Crop Production
Support                            17.70                   46.70        263.8

Livestock                          19.10                    5.10         26.7
Forestry and Wildlife              20.60                    6.00         29.1
Irrigation                         14.60                    3.00         20.5
Land Management                    26.80                    6.90         25.7
 Total Baseline Cost              199.90                  160.90
Physical
Contingencies                       9.40

Price Contingencies                 7.20
  Total Project Costs             216.50
Front-end fee PPF                   0.00                    0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                  0.00                    0.00
       Total Financing
             Required             216.50                  160.90


(b) Financing

                                       Appraisal
    Source of Funds      Type of                        Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                       Cofinancing   Estimate (USD
                                           M)        Estimate (USD M)    Appraisal

Borrower                                       22.00                NA
Other donors                                  164.50                NA
International                                  30.00              30.09           100
Development
Association (IDA)




                                        30

                Annex 2. Outcome Indicators and Output by Component


               Indicator                Unit      Baseline   End-of-   Actual End-of-
                                                (1999/2000)  Project   Project Value
                                                             Value     (2006)
                                                             projected
                                                             in SAR/
                                                             PAD
                                      OUTCOME INDICATORS

Planning & Budgeting
Participatory planning for annual      NA     No             NA        Well-defined
budgets                                                                consultation
                                                                       calendar, involving
                                                                       stakeholders from
                                                                       districts, provinces
                                                                       and central
                                                                       ministries,
                                                                       between May-Sep
                                                                       each year
Medium-term planning                   NA     No             NA        3-yr Expenditure
                                                                       Scenario prepared
                                                                       for first time in
                                                                       2006 to ensure
                                                                       stable resource
                                                                       flow from MOF
Planning within a strategic, results-  NA     No             NA        MoA plans
based framework                                                        consistent with
                                                                       national plan
                                                                       (PSRP or PARPA)
                                                                       indicators
De-concentration/Decentralization:
Share of the Provinces in MoA annual   %      40             NA        60
budget
Planning & Budgeting and Monitoring    NA     No             NA        Yes
procedures at all three levels of MoA
Financial Management
Quality of financial management.
Proxied by:
Time taken to complete External Audit  Months 17             NA        6
Agricultural Support Services
Improved Agricultural Technologies     No.    NA             NA        12
and Practices Introduced
On-farm technology trials               No.   NA             NA        47
On-farm demonstrations                 No.    NA             NA        1,804
Demonstrations for improved fish       No.    165            NA        1,304
ponds
Producers assisted by extension        No.    130,500        NA        191,630
services (incl. outsourcing)
Producer associations assisted by      No.    440            NA        1,766
MINAG
Area under seed production             Ha.    NA             NA        2,529 (Yr 2005)
Natural Resource Management
Forestry concessions awarded           No.    1              NA        471


                                            31

Forestry concessions with management     No.     0                  NA   191
plans approved
Value of processed forest products       $ (000) 528                NA   6,327
exported
Tax revenue (from licensing and          $ (000) 48                 NA   3,800
concessions)
Land titles awarded by provinces         No.     646                NA   2,388
Percentage of land requests processed    %       0 (Yr 2000)        NA   70
under the 90-day rule
Amount of land taxes collected           $ (000) 31                 NA   283

                              OUTPUT INDICATORS (BY COMPONENT)

Component 1: Institutional
Development
Functional Reform
MoA institutional re-structuring:
· National Directorates in MoA           No.     7                  NA   4
· Departments in MoA                     No.     28                 NA   40
· Divisions in MoA                       No.     49                 NA   76
· Subordinate institutions in MoA        No.     12                 NA   7
De-concentration/Decentralization:
· Share of the Provinces in MoA          %       40                 NA   60
     annual budget
Planning & Budgeting
Software-based financial management      NA      No ­ manual        NA   Yes. Quarterly
systems                                          system; few timely      management
                                                 reports                 reports, provide
                                                                         basis for fund
                                                                         disbursement by
                                                                         donors
Human Resources
Staff information system and HR          NA      No                 NA   Yes
management strategy available
Staff Qualifications:
· Staff with University degree           %       8 (Yr 2001)        NA   11
· Staff with medium-level degree         %       16 (Yr 2001)       NA   28
Component 2: Agricultural Research
Cashew clones released                   No.     NA                 NA   4
Socio-economic surveys by research       No.     NA                 NA   28
institutions (to understand client need)
Component 3: Agricultural
Extension
Extension partnerships with NGOs         No.     NA                 NA   89
Extension agents:
· Government                             No.     629                NA   579
· NGO                                    No.     NA                 NA   775
· Private                                No.     NA                 NA   216
Districts covered by extension service
· Government                             No.     57                 NA   86
· NGO                                    No.     NA                 NA   118
· Private                                No.     NA                 NA   57
Farmer field schools established         No.     NA                 NA   157
Component 4: Support for Crop
Production Related


                                                32

Introduction of Cashew Tree
Fumigation:
· Trees Sprayed p.a. (`000)            No.  303            NA    3,234
· Families Benefited                   No.  13,027         NA    98,690
Inspections of quality-seed production No.  708            NA    2,996 (Yr 2005)
fields
Component 5: Livestock
Trained livestock promoters within     No.  NA             NA    966
communities
Vaccinations against:
· Anthrax                              No.  250,385        NA    507,854
· Black leg                            No.  84,009         NA    213,084
· Bruceloses                           No.  2,049          NA    2,954
· Foot & Mouth                         No.  141,311        NA    366,951
· Lumpy skin disease                   No.  5,049          NA    32,542
Rabies                                 No.  19,543         NA    59,659
Component 6: Forestry and Wildlife
Legal instruments developed during     No.  NA             NA    23
project
Forest rangers trained/deployed during No.  NA             NA    332
project period
Component 7: Land Management
Provinces covered under integrated     No.  0              10    10
land cadastral system
Land titles awarded by provinces       No.  646            NA    2,388
Percentage of land requests processed  %    0 (Yr 2000)    NA    70
under the 90-day rule
Component 8: Irrigation
Technical guidelines for irrigation    No.  NA             NA    5
management issued




                                           33

                       Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


Given that the project was focused mainly on process-related improvements relating to
institutional arrangements and capacity building, it would have been appropriate for
efficiency analysis to focus on cost effectiveness of resources spent on MoA (through unit
rate norms, service standards and other yardsticks as appropriate). This approach was not
adopted in the PAD and, owing to weaknesses in M&E and consequent lack of relevant
information, on both output and cost sides, such exercise could not also be undertaken at ICR.
(In the project information system, even breakdown of component expenditure below
component level was not tracked).

The PAD analysis followed a conventional IL approach of estimating returns to project
investment in terms of benefits comprising enhanced outputs of various agricultural
commodities. However, in implicit recognition of the hybrid nature of the operation, PAD
adopted a twin-track approach of estimating returns to investments at the component and sub-
component levels and also at the overall agriculture sector level for the project as a whole. At
the overall project level, the approach adopted is to estimate the incremental growth in
sectoral GDP (AGDP) that would yield an ERR (on projects costs) above the opportunity
cost. However, the use of this incremental growth rate to assess project efficiency is
problematic for two reasons: (i)      attribution ­ it is not clear how one can isolate the
incremental impact of institutional improvements in MoA on the overall performance of the
agricultural economy (i.e., filtering out other important factors like weather or productivity
influences emanating from the private sector); and (ii) incrementality ­ it is also unclear how
at the overall level one would isolate the impact of the project investments in terms of
improved (or incremental) supply of public services like extension (i.e., since some extension
and other public services were provided before project, one needs to be careful to measure
only the incremental impact of project investments). (Presumably, these generic problems of
attribution and incrementality are part of the reason why conventional returns analysis is not
done for DPL type projects).

Methodological issues notwithstanding, this ICR has replicated PAD analysis at both
component and sectoral levels as feasible.

3.1.     Economic and Financial Returns

At the product level, the PAD estimated FRRs for crop production (28.7%) and livestock
production (27%). At component level, the PAD estimated FRRs for forestry and wildlife
(68%) and for irrigation rehabilitation activities (17%). No ERR estimation details are
available in the PAD except the mention that the ERRs were similar to the FRRs. At the
program level, sector level analysis estimated that if PROAGRI induced an incremental
annual growth rate of not less than 0.76% in agricultural GDP, an ERR of 16% could be
realized for the PROAGRI investments. A similar exercise was undertaken for six
components in order to estimate the required incremental annual growth rate in agricultural
GDP for the component level investments. These varied from 0.09% for extension to 0.26%
for forestry and wildlife related investments.

ICR re-estimation of PAD returns are presented in Table 1. It is noteworthy that in the case of
basic food crops, where FRR at ICR is less that half at PAD, the present value of costs have


                                             34

remained more or less the same but the present value of benefits has decreased by 44%.
However, the rate of return for overall crop production has improved mainly because of the
introduction of cashew activity which was not considered at appraisal but introduced during
implementation.

                           Table 1: Economic and financial analysis summary

                        Appraisal Estimate at         ICR - FRR                     ICR - ERR
 Production levels     2006 prices (MTn M)        2006 prices (MTn M)         2006 prices (MTn M)
                     PVB     PVC      FRR      PVB      PVC      FRR       PVB       PVC    ERR
   Basic Food Crops  943     508      28.7%    530      525      12.3%     506       464    14.8%
            Cashew        Not considered       305      210      24.5%     332       187    27.5%
 All Crop
 Production          943     508      28.7%    835      735      16.0%     838       651    19.1%


Following the PAD, the ICR also estimated the minimum incremental AGDP growth
required for the PROAGRI investment to break-even (on all project costs of MTn 4613
million). The estimates turn out to be 0.34% p.a. for 12% ERR (equal to opportunity cost of
capital) and 0.38% for 16% ERR (equal to the reference value used in PAD). Analysis of
agricultural sector growth (see 3.2 below) suggests that annual AGDP growth during
PROAGRI I period was 1.6% higher than in the period before. Assuming uniform intra sector
growth in agriculture sector, and netting out area growth, approximately 1.26% incremental
growth in AGDP could be attributed to basic food crops driven growth. This backdrop
suggests that it is not implausible to suppose that PROAGRI I investments could have
generated sufficient returns over capital.

Reasons for lower returns

The divergence between ICR and PAD                       Table 2: Realized values and PAD targets
estimated rate of returns can be traced mainly
to differences between assumed and realized                            Projected yield   Realized
                                                     Crops             (kg/ha)           yield (kg/ha)
values as follows (see Table 2). First, PAD                    Maize             1,200           1,100
projected between 22 and 100 percent increase             Groundnut                680             550
in yields, but ICR analysis suggests that yield                Beans
increases were likely in the range of 11 to                 Cowpeas                800             500
26% for basic crops. Consequently, except in                Sorghum                900             645
cassava, realized crop yields are less by 8 to                 Millet              675             565
38% as compared to projected yields. Second,                    Rice             1,300           1,150
ICR estimated increase in net income by 9 to                Cassava              6,500           6,500
79% from basic food crops is much lower than          Cashew (Old)       Not applicable            180
the PAD projected increase in net income by          Cashew (New)        Not applicable            600
23 to 162%. Third, number of contact farmers
established are 14% lower than planned. Fourth, possible impact on non-targeted areas as
assumed in the PAD could not be included since no such monitoring was done. Fifth, crop
related project impact is limited to the contact farmers' area, again for want of proper
documentation of possible wider impacts within the targeted areas. Even secondary published
data disaggregated by districts was not available for measuring the crop productivity in the
targeted and non-targeted areas in order to quantify some of these impacts. And more
importantly, project cost tables were not detailed enough to trace the impacts and link them to
the investment activities.

                                             35

3.2.    Details of Project Benefits, Costs and Assumptions

PAD Assumptions

The PAD economic and financial analysis rested on several assumptions. For crop related
investments in research, extension and production components, covering seven major crops
(maize, sorghum, millets, rice, beans, groundnut and cassava), the analysis assumptions were:
2% increase in crop production area per year for both with and without project; 0.5% and
2.5% adoption rate per year for improved seed in three years respectively for non-targeted
and targeted districts; and 22% to 100% increase in crop productivity levels of seven major
crops in three years. For livestock related investments in research and extension components,
covering four main livestock production systems (cattle, pigs, sheep/goats and chicken), the
analysis assumptions were: 2% and 10% adoption rate per year for improved practices in
three to four years respectively for family and commercial sectors; 92% to 450% increase in
the natural increase of herd size; 12% to 500% increase in turn-off for sale; and 90% to 715%
increase in turn-off in weight. For forestry and wildlife related investments, the analysis
assumptions were: 105% increase in tourism revenues, 300% increase in timber production
and 34% increase in fuel wood production. For irrigation related investments, the analysis
assumed that 2500 ha of land area would be rehabilitated.

ICR Estimation Methodology

As mentioned, following PAD, economic analysis was conducted for the sector at program
level and for crops and livestock at production level. Crop budgets for seven major basic food
crops (maize, beans/cowpea, groundnut, rice, cassava, sorghum and millet) were formulated
based on the secondary data for assessing the incremental benefits at crop and farm level.
Quantification of incremental benefits arising from various project interventions proved to be
challenging in the absence of any benchmark study and lack of monitoring and impact
assessments and related databases. Requisite information for ICR analysis was compiled
through published sources, available study reports and project documents (listed below for
ease of reference). Even project cost data was not available at disaggregated level by project
components and activities, making it difficult to link the observed impacts to the project
activities. For crops, investment in basic food crops and cashew management were evaluated
separately before aggregating to assess the performance of overall crop production. While
estimating the costs of basic food crops related interventions, cashew costs were excluded
from the crop production costs first, and then 70% of the research costs were added based on
the actual expenditures and 70% of the extension costs were added following the PAD
methodology. Remaining research and extension costs are added to the livestock component
costs. PROAGRI focus on irrigation rehabilitation was limited to creating enabling
environment rather than investments on the ground. No information was available for
quantifying the impacts of forestry and wildlife investments. Hence, these two components
have not been covered in the ICR analysis.




                                             36

Project Benefits

Basic Food Crops

Project focused on major basic food crops like maize/beans/groundnut besides other crops
like rice, cassava, beans/cowpea and millet, accounting for 83% of the farm area. Average
       Table 3: Project related changes in crop yield and net income           small       farm       holder
                                                                               typically cultivates basic
                             Yield (kg/ha)      Net income (MTn/Ha)            food crops in one hectare.
  Crops                    WOP          WP       WOP                  WP       Annually, some 191,630
                 Maize       870       1100      1,499              2,120      farmers      were     getting
            Groundnut        450        550      4,575              5,790      exposed to the extension
      Beans_Cowpeas          400        500        200                603      service        by       2006.
             Sorghum         550        645       200                 358      Improved seed adoption
                   Rice    1,040       1,150     3,295              3,600      was the major focus,
              Cassava      5,340       6,500     3,605              4,665
        Cashew (Old)          60        180       217               1,221      covering      an    area    of

       Cashew (New)          NA         600        NA               4,319      191,630 ha under major
                                                                               food crops with little
                                                                               coverage                under
fertilizers and plant protection.1 With a low base in all these crops, average productivity has
gone up by about 11 to 26% by the end of project (Table 3). Crop budgets have been
formulated for seven basic food crops. Net income has gone up by MTn 160 to 1,215 per ha
by the end of project period. Using farm model for average holding size, incremental
financial benefits have been quantified (MTn 725/ha) and scaled up for farm area/farmers
covered by the extension service during the project. Despite improved yield, the yield for all
the crops continues to remain low, resulting in modest incremental financial benefits from
basic food crops. Per ha financial benefits from basic food crops increased by 32% from MTn
2,290 in "without-project" situation (WOP) to 3,015 in "with project" situation (WP).

Cash crops-Cashew

Cashew is cultivated predominantly by small farm holders. About 40% of the 3 million small
farm holders cultivate 26 million cashew trees, which are mostly old (40-50 years). With the
incidence of powdery mildew disease, cashew yield remains low. Average cashew yield is 3
kg per tree and the yield loss due to disease is 70%. With new disease resistant cashew
seedlings, the yield increases to 10 kg per tree as against the potential yield levels of over 20
kg per tree under intensive management. In the project area, 8 million trees were fumigated
and one million new disease tolerant seedlings were distributed to the farmers. Data on
distribution of disease tolerant seedlings in the project area is available only for 2005 and
2006. Using two cashew models, one for fumigation and another for new cashew planting,
financial benefits realized from new plantings (MTn 3,540 per ha at full development in year
9) and avoided yield losses due to disease through fumigation (MTn 1,005 per tree) are
quantified and compared with the costs.



1 Available data does not allow a more accurate assessment of the extent of impact but it should be noted
that the intensity of extension coverage was low and the poor state of seed markets in rural areas could also
have hampered efforts to encourage adoption of improved seed.



                                                  37

  Agriculture sector level analysis

  Real AGDP has been growing at 6.6% per                                                       18000
  annum during 1992-2006, based on 3-year
  moving average method (Fig.1). Contribution                                                  16000

  of nominal AGDP to national GDP has come                                                     14000
  down from one-third during mid-1990s to                                       lsacite
  18% in 2006. Crops account for 80% of the                                            M       12000
                                                                                        n
  AGDP and the rest is shared by livestock and                                                 10000
  forestry. 90% of the value of crop production                                          illioB

  in agriculture sector is contributed by the                                                   8000

  seven basic food crops (maize, cassava,                                                       6000
  sorghum, rice, millet, beans/cowpea and                                                          1992    1994      1996   1998      2000    2002    2004     2006
  groundnut), providing livelihood for 95% of
  the smallholder farmers. Production of basic                                                  Fig.1 Real Agriculture GDPgrow th (3-yr moving averages, 1992-06)
  food crops was driven by area expansion,
                                                                            which accounted for 40% of the production
10.0%                                                                       growth during pre-project period came down
                                                                            to 21% during PROAGRI period. Growth in
8.0%
                                                                            AGDP has picked up momentum during the
6.0%                                                                        project period but not all of them can be
                                                                            linked to PROAGRI investments. Annually
4.0%
                                                                            AGDP grew at 6.2% which went up to 7.8%
2.0%                                                                        during the PROGRI period (Fig.2). Annual

0.0%                                                                        growth rates for different periods within the
       1996/99    2000/06    2001/06       2002/06      2003/06   2004/06   project years revealed higher growth rates
            Fig.2 Annual CGR in real agriculture GDP in Mozambique          for all periods except for the last two year
                                                                            period, when it went down by 0.5 percentage
  point. Overall, PROAGRI period registered an incremental growth rate of 1.6% in AGDP.
  Assuming uniform intra sector growth in agriculture sector, and netting out area growth,
  approximately 1.26% incremental growth in AGDP could be attributed to basic food crops
  driven growth.

  3.3.       Poverty impacts

  According to national assessment of poverty statistics, the per capita income level for rural
  poverty in the project area is MTn 9 per adult equivalent per day in 2006 prices. PROAGRI
  interventions are likely to have had a poverty alleviating impact through support for cashew
  production, improvements in basic food crop production and overall agricultural growth.

  Project intervention in phytosanitary disease management of 8 million trees and replacement
  of 1 million old aged cashew trees is likely to have beneficial impacts on small farm holders.
  Illustrative calculations suggest that one hectare of new cashew seedling can generate
  financial benefit of MTn 3,540 per year at full development in year 9, which can help at least
  one adult equivalent to rise above poverty line. Fumigated cashew trees can generate
  financial income of MTn 1,220 per ha. On average, one beneficiary small farm holder with
  1.5 ha would have benefited from fumigation of 30 cashew trees and generated annual
  financial income of MTn 610 from fumigated cashew trees and another MTn 3,015 from
  basic food crops, which can help one adult equivalent to go above poverty line.


                                                                         38

Farm financial income growth by 50% in the project area will also have had poverty
alleviation impact. Without project interventions, at the existing level of farm income (MTn
2,400 per 1.5 ha small farm holder), at least 2.1 ha of land is needed to meet the poverty line
income levels for one adult equivalent. Therefore, one adult equivalent for every small farm
holder beneficiary between 1.5 ha and 2.1 ha farm size in the project area would have
realized the poverty line income levels.

Finally, agricultural growth led consumption growth accounted for 11.3% change in poverty
between 1996/97 and 2002/03. There is a strong negative correlation between aggregate grain
production growth and poverty reduction. It is estimated that each percentage increase in
grain production leads to a decline in rural poverty of 0.27%. With 1.26% growth in AGDP
driven by major basic food crops, the expected percentage change in rural poverty is about
0.34% per annum, although all of this is clearly not attributable to PROAGRI.

3.4.    Sustainability

Analysis of available data for four years (2001-04) on institutional development component
shows that 69% of the expenditure incurred in this component (USD68.1 M) is accounted by
administration/materials/financial and procurement management training. Also, examination
of project costs categorized by investment and recurrent costs for four years, covering 89% of
the total project costs, revealed that 53% of the costs are spent on goods and services, in
which services alone accounted for 35% of the expenditure. Detailed cost break-downs,
needed to analyze the financial and physical sustainability of the project interventions beyond
the project period was never compiled during the project implementation period.

Subject to the limitations both in coverage and clarity regarding the classification of project
component wise expenditure by investment and recurrent categories, available data at
aggregate level for the period up to 2005 was analyzed (Table 4). The cumulative investment
expenditure up to 2005 is MTn 849 M in current prices, which is equivalent to an amortized
annualized (at 10% for 10-years) cost of MTn 152 M in constant 2006 prices for enabling the
maintenance and replacement of assets beyond the project period. Annual recurrent cost
incurred for 2005 is very high (MTn 547 M) and does not represent the needed annual
recurrent cost. In the absence of any data on this, the needed recurrent cost is estimated as
100% of the salary and other remunerations plus 50% of all other allowances including goods
with 2005 as the base year and converted to constant 2006 prices. The annual recurrent cost
needed for future sustainability is arrived at MTn 171 M. Total funding needs for ensuring
future sustainability of PROAGRI interventions are MTn 323 M. Currently, the government
funding (MTn 99 M) covers only 31% of this sustainability needs. Finding sources for
meeting this gap is critical to maintain the impacts of PROAGRI in future.




                                              39

       Table 4: PROAGRI: Funding for Sustainability, Constant 2006 Prices
                                     (Million MTn)

                                                                        Million MTn
    Base Reference Year: 2005
    Project Investment Expenditure, cumulative up to 2005               849
    Project Recurrent Expenditure, annual                               547
    Contribution from the Government of Mozambique                      92
    Funding needs for future sustainability at 2006 prices
    Assets maintenance and replacement                                  152
    Recurrent maintenance costs                                         171
    Total annual funds needed for sustaining the PROAGRI
    interventions at 2006 prices                                        323
    Current level of Government funding at constant 2006 prices         99


References:

1. Economic Analysis of Comparative Advantage for Major agricultural cash crops in
    Mozambique
2. Has Economic Growth in Mozambique Been Pro-Poor? By Robert C. James, Channing
    Arndt, and Kenneth R. Simler, IFPRI, FCND Discussion Paper 202, Dec. 2005,
    Washington, DC
3. Mozambique: Agricultural Development Strategy- Stimulating Smallholder Agricultural
    Growth, March.1, 2006. Report No. 32416-MZ, The World Bank.
4. Mozambique: Agricultural Sector Memorandum Volume II: Main Report, April 1987,
    The World Bank, Africa Region.
5. Mozambique Country Economic Memorandum: Sustaining growth and reducing poverty,
    September 27, 2005, The World Bank PREM, Africa Region.
6. Poverty in Mozambique: Unraveling Changes and Determinants by Louise Fox, Elena
    Bardasi and Katleen Van den Broeck, Africa Region Working Paper Series No. 87,
    August 2005.
7. Poverty and well -being in Mozambique: The Second National Assessment, March 2004,
    National Directorate of Planning and Budget, Ministry of Planning and Finance, IFPRI
    and Purdue University
8. Statistical Year Book, 2000 to 2004, National Statistical Institute, Mozambique.
9. The Economic Analysis of Sector Investment Programmes by Sethaput Suthiwart-
    Narueput, Policy research Working Paper, The world Bank DRG September 1998
10. Working Paper on Economic and Financial Analysis for PROAGRI, August. 1997
    Poverty, Inequality, and Geographic Targeting: Evidence from Small-Area Estimates in
    Mozambique.




                                         40

   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

        Names                  Title          Unit        Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Adelina Paiva         Previous TTL           NA    Donor coordination
David Nielson         Sr. Economist          AFTS2 TTL

James Coats           Rural Dev. Specialist NA     Macro sectoral issues/economic
                                                   analysis

Miriam Brandao       NA                     NA     Agricultural services/institutional
                                                   issues
Jacob Kampen         Consultant             AFTS2  Agricultural research
Elizabeth Monosowski                               Environment
Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt Env. Specialist        AFTS2 Environment
Vishva Bindlish      NA                     NA     M&E
Seljan Riddle        NA                     NA     Cost analysis
Peter Pee            NA                      NA    Agricultural research
Maria Nita Dengo     Agricultural Economist AFTS2  Ag. Policy/fin. Management/RM

Daniel Sousa         Agricultural Service
                     Specialist              AFTS1 Ag. Research & extension/RM

Inacio Manecas       NA                      NA    Land management/RM
Rod de Vletter        Consultant             AFTS1 Environment/RM
Kishor Uprety         Sr. Counsel            LEGMS Legal support
Hovsep Melkonian     NA                     NA     Disbursements
Marcos Sugar         Disbursement Spec.     LOAAF  Disbursements
Anthony Hegarty      Chief FM Officer        OPCFM Financial Management
Francesco Sarno       Procurement Specialist AFTS3 Procurement
Supervision/ICR
David Nielson         Sr. Economist          AFTS2 TTL

Daniel Sousa         Agricultural Service
                     Specialist              AFTS1 TTL - Ag. Research & extension/RM

Maria Nita Dengo     Agricultural Economist AFTS2  Ag. Policy/fin. Management/RM
Jacob Kampen         Consultant             AFTS2  Agricultural research
Isabel Nhassengo     Disbursement Assistant AFCS2  Disbursement
João Tinga           FM Assistant            AFTFM Financial Management
Anthony Hegarty      Chief FM Officer        OPCFM Financial Management
José Janeiro          Sr. FM Specialist      LCSFM Financial Management
IJsbrand de Jong     Sr. Water Res. Spec.    AFTS2 Irrigation Specialist

James Coats           Rural Dev. Specialist NA     Macor sectoral issues/economic
                                                   analysis
Eduardo de Sousa     Agricultural Economist AFTS1  Agricultural Economics
Richard Scobey        Sector Manager         AFTS1 Economics
Sergio Margulis       Lead Specialist        AFTS1 Environmental Economist


                                           41

Jean-Paul Chausse    Lead Specialist       AFTS1  Agricultural Economics
Hans Binswanger      Sr. Adviser           AFRVP  Land Management
Karen Brooks         Sector Manager         AFTS2 Agricultural Economics
Suzanne Morris       Sr. Finance Officer   LOAG2  Disbursements
Frank Byamugisha     Operations Adviser    AFTSD  Land Management
Slaheddine Ben-
Halima               Sr. Procurement Spec. AFTPC  Procurement

Marius Koen          Sr. FM Specialist      OPCFM Financial Management
Miguel da Silva
Oliveira             Finance Analyst        LOADR Financial Management

Aniceto Bila         Sr. Operations Officer AFCS2 Agricultural Economics
Brighton Musungwa    Sr. FM Specialist      AFTFM Financial Management
Teresa de Jesus McCue Finance Analyst      LOAG2  Disbursement
Animesh Shrivastava  Sr. Economist         ARD    TTL for ICR mission
Paavo Eliste          Economist             AFTS1 TTL for ICR
S. Selvarajan        Consultant            NA     Economic Analysis
Joaquim Tenreiro de
Almeida              Consultant            NA     Institutional Development

Anabela Mabota        Consultant            NA    Agricultural Economics
Franco Russo         Sr. Program Assistant AFTS1  Data collection/project cost
Luisa Matsinhe        Team Assistant        AFCS2 Logistical support




                                          42

   b) Staff Time and Cost

                                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

               Stage of Project Cycle                                              USD Thousands
                                                          No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                                                   consultant costs)
Lending2
                         FY98                                                 NA              794.073
                         FY99                                                 NA               101.00
                                                Total:                        NA               895.71
Supervision/ICR
                         FY99                                                   0               32.57
                         FY00                                                  15              114.19
                         FY01                                                  73              234.47
                         FY02                                                  32              125.60
                         FY03                                                  61              182.76
                         FY04                                                  71              159.74
                         FY05                                                  45               86.63
                         FY06                                                  32               53.36
                         FY07                                                  27               66.89
                                                Total:                        356            1,056.21




2The FACT system is no longer accessible and thus no SW can be retrieved pre-SAP
3Figure incl. expenses from 1994 - 1998


                                                    43

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
             (if any)




              44

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
                     (if any)




                     45

                                 Annex 7A. Borrower's ICR

Introduction and Methodology

This "Implementation Completion Report (ICR), has been prepared by the Ministry of
Agriculture (MINAG) in support for the World Bank's final Supervision Mission. The World
Bank is signatory of the PROAGRI, for which was signed a para o que foi assinado um
11999 - 2003, registered under number 3171-MOZ and known as the "Agricultural Sector
Public Expenditure Program (PROAGRI)". By the end of the credit, funds corresponding to
69% of the total agreed credit had been disbursed. Two extensions were approved: (1) in June
2005, the Government of Mozambique (GoM) requested IDA for an extension of the credit
for six months; and (2) in December 2005, the GoM requested IDA for the reallocation of the
remaining credit amounting to USD 6.55 million for eligible expenditures of the Programme.

Methodology: This ICR has been prepared taking into account the following items: (1)
Evaluation of the operational objectives, design, implementation and experiences gained; (2)
Evaluation of the outcomes of the project implementation against the agreed objectives; (3)
Self-evaluation of the beneficiary regarding its performance during the project preparation
and implementation, with special focus on lessons learnt that can be useful in the future; (4)
Evaluation of the performance of the Bank, co-funding agencies or other partners during the
preparation and implementation of the operations, including the effectiveness of their
interactions, particularly in respect of learnt lessons.

The evaluation basically follows the guidelines set by the Bank for this kind of documents.

With the Bank's engagement with the Common Fund Flow Arrangement, the funds it
provided were brought together with the funding of other donors hence it is not easy to single
out the impacts derived exclusively from its resources.

I.   EVALUATION            OF     THE       OPERATIONAL        OBJECTIVES,          DESIGN,
IMPLEMENTATION AND EXPERIENCES GAINED.

1.      PROAGRI Design and Implementation: In the context of the actions framework
agreed in 1998, PROAGRI's strategy to meet its objectives consisted of supporting the GoM
in meeting its mandate for the agricultural sector, through the Ministry of Agriculture
(MINAG). During the PROAGRI period between 1999 -2005 there were no changes to the
objectives, in terms of the institutional capacity building both at the central and provincial
level in areas such as: planning, financial and asset management, as well as the
implementation of activities at the district level.

In Mozambique, most of the production comes from household farmers scattered with limited
guidance to produce for the markets and without access to information and technologies.
There was the need to strengthen the linkages between research-extension-producers in a
sustainable fashion.

1.1     Design: The design of the PROAGRI started in 1998, involving the GoM and various
donors, including the World Bank. The preparation of the background documents for
PROAGRI, namely, the PROAGRI Master Paper and the Basic Principles took into account
various policy and strategy documents of the GoM namely the Agricultural Policy and


                                              46

Implementation Strategy (PAEI), the Poverty Reduction Strategy and the Government's Five-
Year Programme. In the context of the GoM's commitment to adopt the market economy
system and towards decentralization, the concept and objectives of PROAGRI were
established as being to (1) provide the means to define the core functions of MINAG at all
levels and undertake the institutional reform; (2) build its capacity to carry out the core
functions in an effective manner and to maximize the impact of the agricultural sector
through the resources allocated by both the government and donors. Thus:

It was defined as PROAGRI's development objective to: "improve public investment to
establish a conducive environment for a sustainable and equitable growth of the agricultural
sector in order to reduce poverty and improve food security, while the physical and social
environment is protected ".

Three Priority Areas were defined for the development and implementation of its actions,
namely: (a) Institutional Reform and Modernization (component of Institutional
Development). (b) Capacity Building of public agricultural services (component of
Research, Extension, Support to Production and Livestock) (c) Sustainable management of
natural resources: Land, Forests, Wildlife and Water (component of Forests and Wildlife,
Land and Irrigation)

Eight Components were defined and aligned with the structure of MINAG: (1) Institutional
Capacity Building (Directorate of Economy, Directorate of Administration and Finance;
Office of the Minister; General Inspectorate; Agricultural Documentation Centre; Human
Resources and the Department of Cooperation); 2) Research (Research Institutes - INIA, IPA,
INIVE, and CEF); 3) Extension (National Directorate of Extension); 4) Support to Production
(National Directorate of Agriculture); 5) Livestock (National Directorate of Livestock); 6)
Land (National Directorate of Geography and Cadastre); 7) Forests and Wildlife (National
Directorate of Forests and Wildlife); 8) Irrigation (National Directorate of Agricultural
Hydraulics). Specific objectives were attached to each component.

Eight Basic Principles were defined and these reflected the principles, objectives and
strategies that each of PROAGRI's components should pursue.             The basic principles
constitute themes of a policy and management nature, at various levels and are also tools for
the annual plans and the basis for the evaluation of the outcomes against the goals set during
the negotiations between the government and donors. The eight Basic Principles are: (1)
Poverty reduction; (2) Decentralization and power devolution; (3) Good governance,
transparency, accountability and participation; (4) Gender issues; (5) Smallholders (rights and
needs): access to land, inputs and markets; (6) Social and environmental sustainability; (7)
Market orientation; and (8) MINAG's core functions and capacity building for their
implementation.

1.2     Implementation: covered the period from 1999 to 2005. The Programme funded by
donors in support to the Ministry of Agriculture (MINAG) was supposed to allow for Public
Sector interventions to assist Mozambique's agricultural development. Resources would be
allocated to the Programme in conformity with the Basic Principles agreed between the
parties. At the various levels of MINAG the Basic Principles are looked upon as a limitation
to the implementation of activities, particularly those with a direct impact on production.
Many technicians were advocating for direct interventions by MINAG in the provision of
credit and inputs to producers.


                                            47

II. EVALUATION OF THE OUTCOMES OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
PROGRAMME COMPARED TO THE AGREED OBJECTIVES

1.       Outcomes at the level of general objectives and priority areas

1.1      Financial Management: The Programme supported satisfactorily the capacity
building of MINAG's bodies, particularly the Directorates of Administration and Finance;
Economy; Rural Extension; Agricultural Research Institutes and others. The Programme
managed to build the necessary capacity required MINAG to take up direct connection
between them was gradually abandoned, enabling the donors to channel their efforts to a
single Programme. In the wake of this, many donors joined the PROAGRI Memorandum of
Understanding.

The total cost of the Programme stood at USD 202.206 million, with an overall execution rate
of 76% over the period 1999-2005. With the decentralized planning and fund management,
significant amounts were allocated directly to the provinces, reaching annual disbursement
rates varying from 49 to 79%. In terms of the disbursements, 56% of the amount was
managed at the central level, whereas the provinces managed 44% of PROAGRI's
disbursements. In general, the decentralization was quite effcetive (See Table 1).

In the course of the PROAGRI (1999 - 2005), the total amount channelled by the donors
through the common fund mechanism (See Table 2) was USD 162 million (88%) and the
government's contribution amounted to USD 22 million (12%). In addition to this sum,
nearly USD 18.9 million was used to fund projects by the following donors: IFAD, World
Bank, UNDP and FAO. With regard to the funds channelled through the common flow of
funds mechanism (CFFM), the World Bank contributed with 11% (USD 17,0 million); this
figure excludes the contribution made to the various projects amounting to USD 8.5 million.
Table 2 shows the contributions made by donors and by the government. The expenditures
made in respect of each component are presented on Table 3.

PROAGRI has made it possible for MINAG's functional analysis to be carried out at all
levels, and some reforms were initiated, namely the creation of the Agricultural Research
Institute of Mozambique, decentralization of powers, including the management of financial
resources, to both the provincial and district levels. The provision of agricultural services,
particularly the extension services improved significantly. The Unified Extension System is
more comprehensive and looks at production in a more integrated perspective, encapsulating
various themes such as environmental management, gender and HIV/AIDS. The extension
workers started to pay more frequent visits to the communities. In the context of resource
management, the quality of the services of geography and cadastre also improved
considerably. For example, the handling of land use applications is swifter, takes less time,
which should not exceed 90 days.

2.       Outcomes at the level of components

2.1.     Component of Institutional Capacity Building: The total cost of this component
stood at $USD 30.006 million, with the expenditures corresponding to 221%. The
Institutional Capacity Building component exceeded in 121% its budget because the
procurement of capital goods (construction and rehabilitation works, vehicles and equipment,
and training) of the institutions is reported under this component.


                                              48

PROAGRI enabled the successful undertaking of actions that have resulted in the present
review of the structure of the Ministry in line with the priority areas, and in the definition of
the core functions for the central, provincial and district levels. In particular is enabled the
following: (a) the four agricultural research institutes were merged resulting in the
establishment of the Agricultural Research Institute of Mozambique (IIAM) and of four
Zonal Research Centres; (2) Three National Directorates of MINAG (Agriculture, Livestock
and Irrigation) have been restructured having resulted in the creation of two directorates of
agricultural services, one related to agricultural production and livestock (Directorate of
Agricultural Services) and the other dealing with veterinary services (Directorate of
Veterinary Services); and (3) The National Directorate of Forests and Wildlife, and the
National Directorate of Geography and Cadastre merged resulting in the setting up of the
National Directorate of Land and Forests (DNTF). CENACARTA was constituted into
another Directorate.

PROAGRI strengthened the provincial and district capacity to provide a range of agricultural
public services in a viable manner. The technical capacity of the staff was enhanced and
qualified staff was assigned to the districts. The sectors of Planning, and Administration and
Finance carried out training actions at the provincial level, so that the planning process, the
implementation of activities and the accountability could be decentralized.

The Programme ensure the building of some capacity for the formulation of development
policies and the advisory capacity and MINAG's Directorate of Economy and it has further
rendered it viable to establish institutional mechanisms to manage the Programme and build
the confidence of donors and attract more funding for the common fund flow mechanism.

The activities related to the establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation System to follow-
up on the progress and performance of the sector, as well as the environment evaluation and
the establishment of an information system moved at a slower pace, particularly with respect
to the former, where the major activities stated in mid-2005.

2.1.1   Coordination of the Programme: The overall coordination of PROAGRI, the
planning and administration of the Programme and the specific coordination responsibilities
fell under the responsibility of the PROAGRI Coordinator. The efforts towards the
implementation of the Programme resulted in the establishment of the following coordination
forums:

a)      Harmonization Forum. The Harmonization Forum was responsible for fostering the
        dialogue on PROAGRI's policies and strategies. The members of the Forum are
        MINAG, Ministry of Finance and donors.
b)      Coordination at MINAG. The coordination of the different directorates within
        MINAG is done through the meetings of the Consultative Councils held fortnightly.
        Yearly, the National Directorates hold their annual technical meetings. In turn, the
        Coordinating Council is extended to the provincial directors and to other staff from
        MINAG.
c)      Coordination of Donors. The technical coordination MINAG and the donors is done
        through the PROAGRI Working Group (PWG), chaired by the PROGRI Coordinator,
        who is the representative of MINAG. The role of the PWG is to discuss and resolve
        day-to-day implementation issues and set up a platform to review operational issues.


                                              49

        In addition to the PROAGRI Working Group (PWG), the coordination with donors
        and other partners takes place in two annual meetings held in April/May and in
        October.
d)      Inter-sectoral Coordination. The inter-sectoral coordination was made particularly
        with the Ministry of Finance, for the harmonization of procedures with respect to (a)
        Disbursement of PROAGRI funds, through the National Directorate of the Treasury;
        (b) Accountability, with the National Directorate of Public Accounting; and (c)
        Procurement, with the National Directorate of Assets.
e)      Supervision Teams. The follow-up teams consist of members from the Ministry of
        Agriculture, Ministry of Finance and donors, and their purpose is to oversee the
        implementation of PROAGRI at the provincial and district levels in the areas of
        Institutional Capacity Building, Agricultural Services and Natural Resources.

2.1.2   Financial and Asset Management: One of the major achievements of the
implementation of PROAGRI was the development of institutional procedures and the
building of institutional capacity at MINAG's Administration and Finance sectors. The
capacity building at the provincial level was made possible through technical assistance, i.e.
recruitment of qualified technicians and the training of staff in accounting, procurement and
asset preservation. The introduction of common procedures for planning, budgeting and
financial management was one of the key elements to enhance MINAG's capacity and to
promote change.

The Common Flow of Funds Mechanism (CFFM) was put in place and brought in the donors
into PROAGRI, representing the turning point from the scheme of funding isolated projects.
In order to standardize the accounting records and the financial reporting, MINAG developed
a computerized financial management system, which responds to the needs and is
accountable to the MF, and for the production of FMRs.

The World Bank played a crucial role in the operationalization of the computerized financial
management system, particularly through the involvement of their financial staff in the
design of "Financial Monitoring Reports -FMRs" to be produced. Similarly, the World Bank
staff provided training on international standard based procurement for 10 technicians from
the provinces and 4 technicians from the central level.

The Programme was subjected to nine audits, seven of which were financial audits and two
procurement related audits. Two firms were involved in the financial audit, namely: Deloiite
& Touche that conducted audits in 1999 and 2005, and KPMG that audited successively from
2000 through 2004. In general, the audits were carried out with some delays. The reasons
given for the delays were that MINAG lacked both capacity and the staff with experience to
update the accounting records at the provincial level.

The Procurement Unit was established early in 1999, with the objective of ensuring the
process of decentralization of the procurement of goods and services to the provinces. The
procurement staff both at the central and provincial level were trained by international
experts in the understanding and use of procurement manuals, in establishing acceptable
procurement levels for the provinces, in arranging tenders, their evaluation and adjudication.
The management capacity for the procurement activities were developed until 2004 both at
the central and provincial level. This capacity started to fade as those trained left these
services. This fact weakened the system, resulting in shortcomings in responding to issues


                                            50

related to procurement in the FMRs. At present, only 10 to 30% of the provinces have
retained their initial procurement capacity. In the course of the audits the following issues
have been identified: (a) purchases made at the provincial level without the approval from the
DAF at the central level; and (b) fractional purchases through various processes in order to
comply with the thresholds of authorization for the provincial level, thus avoiding the need to
seek approval from the central level.

The management system of assets and the management of the fleet have not been concluded,
as priority was given to the Financial Management System. However, the activities related to
the preparation of the State Assets Inventory are underway.

2.1.3   Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation: The Programme has enabled the
development of instruments for the planning and budgeting of activities, and for investments
that are to be made in the course of the year or during a quarter (PAAOs and PTAOs). These
instruments have focused on MINAG's activities and on the decentralization process of the
activities and budgets to the provincial and district levels.

The development of Management Information Systems will remain critical throughout the
implementation of PROAGRI and carious instruments are used to follow-up on the activities
of the various sectors of MINAG, like, for example: a) The Directorate of Human Resources
has a Personnel Information System (SIP), b) The Directorate of Economy has a system for
information collection for the development of the Economic and Social Plan and other
MINAG plans.

2.1.4   Reform and reorganization of MINAG: The functional analysis carried out by
MINAG identified three key functions, namely human resources development, analysis,
formulation and monitoring of the sector policies; the development of regulation and control
mechanisms and the provision of public services.

CIRESP has approved the implementation of Institutional Reform in 2004. Institutions such
as the National Directorate of Agriculture (DINA), National Directorate of Livestock
(DINAP), National Directorate Agricultural Hydraulics (DNHA), National Directorate of
Land (DNT) and National Directorate of Forests and Wildlife were extinguished (DNFFB)
and as a replacement the National Directorates of Agricultural Services and of Land and
Forests were created; in August 2005 the Organic Statutes for MINAG was approved in April
2006 its rules and regulations while the Staff Complement is still pending approval.

2005 was a year characterized by the implementation of actions in the context of the reform
process in the component of Agricultural Research, through the establishment of the
Agricultural Research Institute of Mozambique (IIAM), resulting from the merger of the
various research institutes (INIA, IP A, INIVE and CEF), and by the setting up of the Zonal
Research Centres.

Although the sector's functional analysis was conducted, not much progress has been made
in view of the delay in the approval of the Organic Statute and the Rules and Regulations,
which resulted in the delay in the approval of the Staff Component and, consequently, in the
approval of the overall staff training plan. Table 4 shows the evolution of MINAG's staff
complement (2001 -2005).



                                             51

The number of employees outside the staff complement is on the increase and they have no
possibilities of joining MINAG staff complement. The hiring of people in the context of the
PROAGRI funds was made based on the immediate needs of each organ. There has not been
an overall evaluation of the existing needs to improve the use of available staff within the
sector. By 2005 the figure of people on contract represented 38.2% compared to those on the
staff complement. This figure is high, for a State institution should operate with its own staff
complement.

Most of the contracted staff benefited from non-formal training, but because they were never
incorporated into the staff complement, most abandoned their jobs. This was more evident
with the staff from Administration and Finance at the provincial level. Indeed, by 2004
technical capacity had been built, but as opportunities emerged in other places, even in the
public sector, many left their jobs. At the level of MINAG there is not yet a human resources
development plan. In this regard, the approval of MINAG's Staff Complement is of utmost
urgency. However, one should point out that in order to offset the absence of the said human
resources development and training plan, in 2002 a consultant was engaged, but in view of
the present finds by the end of PROAGRI the work had not been completed. In spite of the
absence of a human resources development plan, MINAG provided scholarships to 224 staff
members. While information is available at sector level, it is not available at the Human
Resources Directorate. Table 5 shows the different levels of training of MINAG's employees.

The Staff Information System (SIP) is not functional for various reasons. The human
resources have adopted another system SIRH ­ Human Resources Information System that
can provide data such as duration of employment, education, administrative acts and planning.

2.1.5   Decentralization: PROAGRI initiated the decentralization process that consisted of
the transfer of the implementation and decision-making from the central level to the
provincial and district levels. The decentralized planning and allocation of resources resulted
in greater coordination and interaction between the communities and the staff from the
District Directorates in the identification of local needs. Planning with local participation has
also provided a framework for collaboration and shared responsibilities with NGOs operating
in the districts.

A general evaluation shows that the capacity to plan, implement activities and make
expenditures was different in each DPA and DDA. The impact of decentralization is reflected
in various aspects, particularly the following:
    · Assignment of qualified staff to the districts;
    · The decision-making processes were streamlined;
    · Funds are allocated to the districts enabling the procurement of goods and services;
    · District planning of activities and budgets in a more comprehensive and participatory
        manner by the staff from the DDAs and representatives of local institutions that deal
        with agriculture;
    · The planning instruments such as PAAOS and PTAOS have increasingly empowered
        the staff and enhanced the accomplishment rate and the control of activities.

2.2.    Research Component: The total cost amounted to $ 25.130 million, of which 72%
was spent. The reform process of the agricultural research system was coordinated by the
Agricultural Research Technical Council (CTIA), a body set up to that end. In the wake of
the feasibility study carried out, it was recommended to create the Agricultural Research


                                              52

Institute of Mozambique (IIAM) with a holistic mandate over agricultural research including
social sciences. Concurrently, four Zonal Research Centres were set up to enable research
institutions and programmes to be organized based on regions or agro-ecological zones.
IIAM resulted from the merger of four research institutions (INIA, IP A, INIVE e CEF) and
it is accountable to MINAG.

Some of the main activities carried out in 2005 include the appointment of the Director-
General of IIAM, the development of IIAM's organic structure, the preparation of the Vision,
Mission and Objectives of IIAM, the start of the development of IIAM's Master Plan, the
start of the process of adjustment of the status of Researcher and approval of the staff
complement.

At present, undertaken activities include (a) the establishment of mechanisms for the
engagement of all stakeholders namely producers, NGOs, learning institutions etc.; (b) the
completion of the preparation the career system for researchers; and (c) the establishment of
the regulation for the Research Competitive Fund that is already in its operational phase.

The formal linkage between research and extension is being done through the following
mechanisms: (a) on-farm experiments and demonstration fields are being used vehicles for
linkages between farmers, extension workers and technical directorates (through branch
technicians) and research; (b) active participation of researchers in the establishment and
running of on-farm experiments; (c) the provision of the necessary resources by the
provincial extension services to carry out experiments and CDRs through their PAAOs; and
(d) periodic technology reviews involving researchers, extension workers and in some cases
producers; the latter are also invited to assess the performance of the dissemination of
technologies and to consubstantiate planning at the provincial level. No evaluation has been
made on the effectiveness of the set mechanisms. There are indications that the number of
on-farm experiments and the REPETEs have been dwindling since 2001, mainly because of
the lack of resources both on the part of the Research Institutions and the Extension Services.

From the second expansion of PROAGRI the sum of USD 1.0 million was allocated to
Research. Most of these funds were for the development of infra-structures in the (a)
Northeast Zonal Centre ­ in the Agronomic Post of Nampula; (b) CIMSAN ­ Cotton Seed
Research and Multiplication Centre of Namialo; (c) Central Region Zonal Centre, located in
Sussundenga; Southern Zonal Centre ­ located in Chokwé and encompassing the Chobela
Station.

The allocated funds have enabled the rehabilitation of infra-structures, including the
veterinary laboratory as well as the equipment.

PROAGRI led to enhanced response capacity by Research to the production problems. Some
examples that can be cited include the release of some varieties of maize, two varieties of
groundnuts and of cowpea beans. IIAM is involved in the production of pre-basic and basic
seeds from improved varieties of many crops as a way of contributing to increased
production and productivity by farmers. IIAM is also involved in the production of vegetative
propagation material, including cassava and sweet-potato propagation vegetative material.
INIVE provided the diagnosis capacity in the provincial and central level laboratories and has
rehabilitated the facilities for the production of Newcastle vaccine.



                                              53

2.3.    Extension Component: the total cost stood at USD 20.41 million, of which 38% was
spent. The Public Agricultural Extension Services were established in 1987, and went
through three evolutionary phases, namely the inception phase, (1987 - 1992), the expansion
phase (1993 - 1998), and with PROAGRI (1999 - 2004), the phase of the Unified Extension
System (SUE)

The efforts to strengthen the extension networks in 52 districts were successful in terms of
the allocation of human resources, means of transport, training of extension workers and
improvement in the linkages with other sector stakeholders (private sector, farmers'
associations and other stakeholders). The number of farmers assisted by public extension
services in 2005 was 176,729, which represents a coverage rate vis-à-vis the target of 90%.
Indeed, in 2005 the extension coverage increased 17% compared to 2004. This resulted from:
(a) opening of new extension fronts in the districts that did not have public extension
networks, moving from 66 districts to 84 districts in 2005, and from 633 technicians in the
field in 2004 to 681, of which 586 were extension workers and 95 supervisors in 2005; (b)
concentration of farmers in the irrigation systems and in lowlands, which increased
significantly the number of beneficiaries for each technicians over the last few years, in the
wake of the development of irrigation infrastructures and to respond to adverse weather
conditions; and (c) introduction of crops such as potatoes, rice and pineapples that prompted
the broader participation of farmers in view of the huge market demand for such crops.

Presently, the extension services are working directly with 4,400 peasants, representing an
increase of 87% in relation to 2004. The number of farmers' associations assisted by MINAG
in 2005 rose to 1,239, representing an increase of 86%. The number of beneficiaries serviced
by one extension worker has varied over time, having moved from 204 in 1999 to 243
farmers in 2004. The Extension Master Plan spells out that each extension worker should
cover on average 225 farmers.

A total of 3,488 results demonstration farms (CDR) were established, which implies that the
2005 target has been achieved, corresponding to an increase of 118% compared to 2004. The
number of barns, pens and improved hencoops amounted to 486; 460 and 95 respectively,
corresponding respectively to 72%, 66% and 52% in relation to the targets. A total of 1,113
hours of various radio programmes containing extension messages were broadcast, thus
exceeding the target in 50%.

Currently, data in respect of human resources in public extension show that there are 735
employees, 4% at the central level, 12% at the provincial level and 84% at the district level.
This figure corresponds to about 12% of total MINAG's staff, which has 6,356 employees.
One of the challenges referred to in the Extension Training Plan for 1999 - 2004 was to come
to the end of the Programme with all extension workers in field having the intermediary level
of education. However, this challenge was not materialized. Over the same period, there were
5 Master's degree graduates, 27 Honour's degree graduates and 13 intermediary level
graduate technicians (See Table 6).

Various extension technicians are being training at tertiary level, with the number of
technicians with Honour's degree increased 30%, i.e. from 37 to 48 technicians. The 48
extension staff with tertiary education represent about 118% in relation to 1996. Meanwhile,
some technicians have left the institution over this period. For example, from 1999 to 2004, 5
experienced technicians with Honour's degree and 1 with Master's degree left the institution


                                            54

to look for greener pastures in entities such as NGOs and international development agencies.
The non-formal training of extension workers is conducted at the level of the extension
networks and takes the form of on-the-job training.

The role of Public Extension in terms of working with farmers' associations remains limited,
partly due to the low level of development that characterizes these organizations. Many such
organizations are not yet legalized, lack access to credit and need technical and managerial
support both from public and private sector providers.

2.3.1    Outsourcing: The National Directorate of Rural Extension embarked on a pilot
outsourcing programme with the objective of testing extension models and alternative
institutional arrangements for the provision of extension services through outsourcing. The
preliminary evaluation of the pilot programme points to advantages of the outsourcing as an
alternative way of ensuring increased technical capacity to farmers. However, it is paramount
that the providers have proven capacity and experience in the proposed areas for their
intervention.
In virtually all provinces, there are partnership initiatives between the public extension
services and other local providers of extension services, particularly with NGOs.

2.3.2    Community Radios: The use of provincial radios has been an alternative medium to
disseminate extension related information and services. However, the cost of these radios has
been restricting its use. Recently, in October/November 2006, the World Bank allocated USD
75,000 to MINAG/DNER to conduct a diagnosis on the use of local radios for the
dissemination of extension messages. The diagnosis was carried out in three provinces,
namely in Maputo, Niassa and Zambézia.

In order to implement this programme, operational equipment such as computers and tape
recorders were procured. Work contracts were entered into with three community radios as
follows: (a) one Community Radio in the district of Mutarara, Tete Province; e (b) two
Community Radios in Zambezia Province.

As hinted, various activities have been implemented in the field. However, studies are
required on the adoption of technologies, as well as on the assessment of the constraints and
potential in some selected areas.

2.4.     Support to production component: The total cost was USD14.440 million, with
expenditures reaching 282%). The functional analysis has identified as core functions of this
component the regulation, supervision and monitoring. The actions carried out were: (a)
strengthening of the National Seeds Committee in terms of the coordination, supervision and
regulation related to seeds; (b) control over the application of the legislation on seeds used in
the country; (c) creation of an environment that is conducive to a greater intervention by the
private sector in the marketing of seeds, including imports, exports and distribution; (d) the
institutionalization of early warning systems and establishment of information dissemination
mechanisms to users; (e) development of production forecasts based on early warning
information throughout the agricultural seasons; and (f) encouragement of the private sector
to participate in the production of cash crops, such as cotton, tobacco, sugar-cane and tea.




                                             55

Over the period 1999 - 2005, the National Directorate of Agriculture was involved in the
implementation of the Drought Mitigation Plan, supporting families in situations of
vulnerability in the affected districts.

2.4.1    Mozambique's Cotton Sector Programme: The Cotton Institute of Mozambique
(IAM) benefited from the extension of the Credit 3171 - MZ for the implementation of the
"Joint IAM ­ World Bank Programme for the Cotton Sector in Mozambique" to the tune of
USD 761,460.8 (19 036 million Meticais). The programme consists of four components:
a.       Assessment of the concessions in terms of monitoring and evaluation. This study
         was not carried out;
b.       Development of models for the management of shocks and crises. This study was
         not carried out;
c.       Development of the management framework and of the cotton environment
         framework. Pilot experiments were conducted in the integrated disease management
         (IPM) in Nampula (Moma District), Zambézia ( Morrumbala District) and Cabo
         Delgado (Montepuez District); and the study was carried out on the environmental
         base and messages for cotton producers;
e.       Introduction of conservation farming. Pilot experiments were conducted in the
         provinces of Sofala and Inhambane.

In addition to the implementation of the activities, the programme entailed the procurement
of goods and services in respect of each component. Purchased items consist of two vehicles,
office stationary and GPS. The disbursements were not complete, and were made late, in
September (2.296 million Meticais), and in Novembro (7.2 million Meticais), thus impairing
the implementation of the activities and the purchase of equipment required by the
Programme.

2.4.2    Pilot Contracted Farming Initiatives: in the context of the extension of the Credit
3171 - MZ, CEPAGRI is implementing the programme known as "Pilot Initiatives for
Contract Farming" to the tune of USD 761,460.8 (19.036 million Meticais). Thus, CEPAGRI
defined as its priority the promotion of the implementation of pilot contracted farming
initiatives of some crops, with value chains that recorded considerable development, but that
still face constraints, particularly in terms of access to inputs for production and market
linkages. In this connection,     CEPAGRI promotes the implementation of pilot production
and marketing initiatives, with respect to maize and rice seeds.

Table 7 summarizes the pilot initiatives of contracted farming.

2.5.     Livestock Component: The total cost was USD 16.600 million, with expenditures
corresponding to 26%. The functional analysis carried out identified the need to decentralize
the functions in the provision of services on the part of DINAP to the private sector. Studies
have been carried out on cost recovery and privatization of veterinary assistance. In terms of
institutional development, the legislation on animal health services was reviewed, particularly
the legislation on the importation, distribution and recording of the inputs for the livestock
sector, as well as the regulation on animal health.

The sub-sector is engaged in livestock restocking programmes, rehabilitation of
infrastructures (drinking facilities, dipping tanks, animal confinement sites as well as
diagnosis and testing laboratories), animal health care and technical assistance to producers.


                                            56

Vaccinations campaigns were carried against Newcastle, Cattle Diseases (C.Hemático, C.
Sintomático) including foot and mouth disease.

Various courses were held on Foot and Mouth Disease and African swine fever, covering
aspects such as identification, prevention and control of diseases.

2.5.1. National Contingency Plan for Avian Flu: The second extension of the Credit 3171
from IDA allocated USD 2.100 to the National Contingency Plan for Avian Flu, which
envisages preparatory and control actions in case of an outbreak of the disease. The
prevention, control and eradication strategy on avian flu consists of the preparation and
response in order to: (a) prevent the entry of the AF virus in Mozambique through animals
and products of animal origin; (b) contain, delay or restrain the dissemination of virus in
question to the bird population and mitigate its economic impact; and (c) contain, delay or
restrain the dissemination of the disease from birds to humans. The implemented actions
were:
    · Capacity building of the technical staff
    · Training

2.6.    Forests Component: The total cost was USD 39.930 million, and the expenditures
corresponded to 14%. The Law on Forests and Wildlife and its Regulation were approved.
Both the Law and the Regulation were disseminated. The following law enforcement
instruments were developed: (a) Management Plans; (b) Specific Regulations and
Complementary Legislation; (c) Forestry and Wildlife Inventories; (d) Programme for the
prevention of bush fires; (e) Forest and wildlife zoning; and (f) National Programme of
Forests and Wildlife, and (g) Establishment     of the Forest Development Fund.

Other actions were: (a) creation and consolidation of community based natural resources
management initiatives and strengthening of natural resources management capacity of the
communities; (b) undertaking of inventories in various provinces to learn about the status of
forest and wildlife resources; and (c) development of the process of implementation of the
management plans that take on board the role played by the stakeholders, namely the State,
the private sector and the local communities based on set indicators.

2.7.    Land Component: The total cost was $USD 32.170 million, with the expenditure
representing 22%. The Land Law and its Regulation were approved. Streamlined procedures
for land use titles (DUAT) for various purposes were introduced. The performance indicator
is the number of applications concluded within a 90 day period.

The Land Information System was established to provide a meaningful contribution to the
reduction of land conflicts resulting from various overlapping land uses by different
ministries/departments, and the computerized GIS/LIS was introduced at the level of the
Provincial Services of Geography and Cadastre in priority provinces.

The Organic Statutes of CENACARTA is under review.

2.8.    Irrigation Component: The total cost was USD 23.520 million, of which 11% was
spent. The public resources for investment in irrigation have increased over the last years,
and this has resulted in enhanced capacity to identify, select, rehabilitate and build. The
rehabilitation of irrigation systems was initiated and water management units were


                                            57

established, with less than 1000 ha having been concluded, in various sites and provinces.
With the state budget the drop by drop irrigation method was disseminated in various districts
(12 ha).

III.   SELF-EVALUATION              OF     THE      BENEFICIARY          REGARDING         ITS
PERFORMANCE DURING THE PREPARATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF
THE PROGRAMME, WITH PARTICULAR FOCUS ON LESSONS LEARNT THAT
CAN BE USEFUL IN THE FUTURE.

Lessons Learnt

The Programme has contributed greatly to the restructuring and modernization of MINAG at
the central and provincial level in line with the ongoing reforms aimed at the decentralization
and devolution of powers in the reform of the financial resources and assets management
systems. The decentralization Programme that was adopted was a very useful exercise to
what come to be known as the decentralization programme promulgated by the government,
placing the district as the foundation of planning. The coordination and collaboration
mechanisms between MINAG, donors and the Ministry of Finance were quite fruitful for
they provide the tools for negotiations and to change attitudes and procedures of all
concerned. The financial management system and procedures became a vehicle to build
capacities at the local level and for the decentralization of responsibilities for the
management of resources allocated to MINAG. With the implementation of PROAGRI, the
operations of the sector of Administration and Finance at all levels were harmonized.

Pursuant to the implementation of PROAGRI, considerable experience has been gained and
achievements made, notably the following:
· PROAGRI was subjected to careful preparation, allowing for a broad involvement of
    MINAG's technical staff at various levels. This involvement was important in view of
    the opportunity it provided to the staff to get an in depth understanding of the sector's
    reality;
· A particularly important factor was the recognition of PROAGRI's strategic relevance to
    the development of the sector, clearly spelled out in the vision of the new management of
    the institution. This made it possible to keep the momentum of the implementation and to
    preserve the essence of the originally envisaged objectives;
· From the point of view of the Programme timing, it came at an appropriate time as the
    sector was practically in the recovery phase following the devastating effects of the war;
· The integrated approach to the sector's problems was of a pioneer nature and enabled the
    various issues to be considered in a holistic manner, thus doing away with the relative
    watertight separation and isolation of some sectors, leading to a greater interaction;
· The motivation of MINAG's staff and their willingness to work with the World Bank and
    donor technicians resulted in the establishment of a favourable climate for a frank
    discussion of the problems in order to find realistic solutions;
· In the framework of PROAGRI's implementation, the inter-institutional communication
    and coordination linkages were strengthened as well as the relations with the donor
    community and the Bank;
· As the agricultural sector plays a major role in Mozambique's economy, the conception
    of PROAGRI clearly created huge expectations in relation to its objectives and in relation
    to the resources made available for their materialization. It has further accorded the
    opportunity for the massive dissemination of information related to the Programme;

                                             58

· Despite PROAGRI's major direct and indirect impact on the training of MINAG's staff at
  various levels and sub-sectors, there is a perception that in view of the magnitude of the
  programme and the envisaged objectives, the training plan should have been broader and
  more comprehensive;
· In general, it has been found that there is a lack of mechanisms for the collection,
  management and dissemination of information with respect to PROAGRI, a fact that
  results in scattered information, rendering it difficult to obtain and use it.

More specifically, MINAG's performance can be summarized as follows:

· Coordination Unit. This Unit had a key role in the whole process of PROAGRI's design
  and implementation. It also had the merit of harmoniously bringing together all the
  stakeholders involved in the process, as all the potential and capacity converged towards
  a common objective.
· Financial Management. The change introduced to the financial management system has
  led to enhanced planning and budgeting capacity, by introducing greater discipline,
  predictability and transparency in the process of managing the resources allocated to the
  sector.
· Planning. The introduction of a comprehensive planning system consubstantiated in the
  PAAOs heralded the decisive stage in the process of allocation of resources, making it
  more realistic as it was based on a feasible programme.
· Decentralization. The experience of allocating qualified technical staff is the district was
  an important landmark in the decentralization process for it strengthened their capacity to
  take duly informed decisions.
· Resources Management. It has been possible to develop a more realistic vision about
  the magnitude of the sector resources (human, material and financial) and its needs. More
  importance was given to community-based natural resources management.
· Forestry Concessions. The formulation of the legislation on forestry concessions
  resulted in greater accountability in the exploration, reforestation and preservation of the
  environment on the part of the concessionaires.
· Linkages research - extension.         The linkages between the two components were
  strengthened through more institutionalized mechanisms, with the involvement of
  farmers and other sector stakeholders.
· Technical assistance to livestock. The quality of the technical assistance provided by the
  livestock public services has improved substantially, and has a greater involvement of the
  private sector, and its coverage has expanded;
· Livestock restocking. The activities undertaken in this domain have resulted in the
  increase of the cattle and goat population, reaching comparable levels as those that
  existed before the war.




                                           59

IV. EVALUATION OF THE PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK, CO-FUNDERS AND
OTHER PARTNERS DURING THE PREPARATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF
THE      OPERATIONS,         INCLUDING         THE      EFFECTIVENESS           OF     THEIR
RELATIONSHIP, WITH SPECIAL FOCUS ON THE LESSONS LEARNT
1.      Evaluation of the Bank's Performance

The Bank had a very positive performance, given that it:

· Assigned technicians with international experience and technical competence that
    successfully interacted with the Mozambican staff during all stages of the process
· The engagement of the Bank was important in the formulation of a comprehensive
    strategy for the sector, which by involving various stakeholders in the implementation,
    created a dynamic and fertile environment for the generation of synergies
· The supervision missions and the joint work with the government and donors enabled the
    harmonization of experiences and the monitoring of the implementation of the
    Programme, which produced outcomes with an impact at the level of the sectors
· The criticism over the delay in securing the "No Objection" has been frequent, a situation
    that conditioned considerably the execution of the agreed programmes.

2. Performance of the donors signatories of the MoU

In general, the performance of donors in the context of PROAGRI is considered as fully
satisfactory, given that:

· They complied with their responsibilities throughout the whole process, both in the
    discussions and consultations in the context of fine-tuning the strategies in the context of
    the overall implementation of the programme;
· The establishment of the PROAGRI Working Group proved to be strategically far-
    reaching, as it brought together various experiences and views around a common
    objective;
· Some delays in the disbursements by some donors eventually delayed the implementation
    of the programmes within the agreed timeframe.

V. SUSTAINABILITY

Mozambique's existing political and economic environment is favourable to the development
of a sectoral programme of this nature. At the country level, the policy framework that
supports the development of agriculture is the Plan for the Reduction of Absolute Poverty
(PARPA/PRSP), which identifies agriculture, rural development and good governance as part
of the six actions in the priority areas. PARPA is in turn supported political initiatives,
namely the Rural Development Strategy.

There is a strong financial commitment from the donors and confidence on PROAGRI. It is
hoped that this will continue in the future. In view of the favourable political environment
and the willingness of the donors to fund, financial sustainability will be secured for the
provision of the services and to support the beneficiaries.

The existence of a technical staff complement adequately qualified and strongly motivated
contributes to the desirable operation of the Programme. In this regard, it is worth pointing

                                            60

out that the completion of the development of the staff complement is extremely urgent.
Concomitantly, the ongoing reforms in the country are likely to produce a major impact on
the sustainability of the Programme in that the core policies and actions envisaged in
PROAGRI are fully aligned with the said reforms. The large number of employees that leave
MINAG, both at the central and at the provincial level can affect the sustainability of the
Programme.

The sustainability in terms of the interventions at the level of the farmers depends essentially
on the availability of services provided by the public sector, by the private sector or by the
farmers' associations. PROAGRI has developed systems for the outsourcing of services and
for the participation of groups of producers. Initiatives of this kind should continue to sustain
the efforts made to this date.

Furthermore, the Programme will require that MINAG keeps the pace and the capacity to
establish the necessary linkages with the other sectors and institutions for, as it has shown
during implementation, the linkages and harmonious operation with other sectors is essential.

VI. FINAL CONSIDERATIONS

The prevailing perception on PROAGRI is that although this first experience has not been a
landmark in terms of resolving all problems affecting the sector, PROAGRI has satisfactorily
achieved its objectives. It provided a unique opportunity for a joint approach towards most
problems affecting the sector. In this regard, the identification and equating of these problems
represent a step towards understanding and addressing them. PROAGRI had the merit of
introducing an integrated approach to the agricultural sector, enabling the adoption of a much
broader vision, thus superseding the traditional perspective that was based strictly on the
farming sector.

PROAGRI also had the merit of brining in resources, talent and experiences from various
quarters and to place them at the service of the development of a particularly important
economic sector, which is the agricultural sector in Mozambique. It was also of particular
merit the principle envisaged in PROAGRI, of assigned already at such time qualified staff in
the districts in order to turn decentralization and the local management of resources into
actions with the potential to generate effective results.

The institutional modernization spearheaded by PROAGRI constituted an experience to be
replicated for it developed the capacity to provide quality public services.

In view of all these factors, PROAGRI can be looked upon as an important landmark in the
history of the sector, for as stated earlier, although some of the objectives set were not
achieved fully, one can asset that its implementation changed radically the prospects for the
sector.




                                             61

                     Annex 7B. Borrower's Comments on the ICR


[Following are Borrower's comments translated from Portuguese ­ actual comments are
listed in Annex 9].

We would like to inform that we agree with conclusions of the report. However, we would
like to call you attention for the following tree points:

1. The African Development Bank was one of the co-financers of the program;
2. One of the Program focus area the Sustainable Management of the Natural Resources, and
3. The main beneficiaries of the program were the smallholders and the main challenge was
    to transform them into increasingly market oriented producers.




                                              62

       Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


By the Swedish Embassy as representative of the ProAgri partners

Comments by co-funding partners on the draft World Bank Evaluation Comments

General findings

The ProAgri partners have received the Implementation Completion Report for comments.
The general impression is that the report is good and the content and conclusion corresponds
to other evaluations made recently such as the joint GoM and partners evaluation of ProAgri I
and the assessment made by the Global Platform for Rural Development. However, the
system of the rating is not explained in the document and therefore the scale used is difficult
to assess.

In assessing ProAgri it is important to remember that the Ministry of Agriculture was the first
Ministry to enter into such an arrangement, and therefore there were no clear framework in
Mozambique on how to set up such a programme. The experiences made in ProAgri
regarding institutional development, donor coordination and decentralization has also large
benefited other sectors that embarked on similar programmes at a later stage. The
institutional focus in the first stage of ProAgri has created capacity and a platform for more
focus on results at outcome level in the second phase of ProAgri.

Regarding the World Banks decision to withdraw from ProAgri it is commentated that this
move was unwelcome by other partners. This move was also followed by other major
partners such as DFID and the Netherlands, which created uncertainty about the long-term
commitment to the sector programme by partners. Also, the phase-out seem to have caused
problems in relation to predictability as part of the disbursement planned by the World Bank
for activities 2006 were not disbursed, and therefore forced the Ministry to make internal
reallocation of funds at the end of the year.

The partners would also like to encourage the World Bank to further strengthen it efforts in
relation to harmonization and alignment, in line with the Paris declaration. We are looking
forward to a continued constructive dialogue and cooperation with the World Bank in the
agricultural sector.

Specific Comments

Indicator n3 (Comments including % achievement): 85% of the coverage target
achieved (2006)

Extension has been operating with an average annual deficit of 20% of planned extension
workers for the 1999-2006 period.




                                             63

Indicator n4 (Value: quantitative and qualitative): .....191 forestry concessions with
management plans approved (2006)

The approval of forestry management plans is very important. However, most important is
the implementation of such plans in order to ensure sustainable use of natural resources. To
know to what extent they have been implemented may be useful.

Indicator n6. Number of titles awarded provinces increased (2,388 titles in 2006)

The same comment, in relation to the previous indicator.

However, these comments on indicators 4 and 6 are more relevant for the future, thus,
regarding to PROAGRI II. More than to quantify, it will be necessary to know the rate of
implementation of proposed and approved plans.

Implementation (page 16)

High staff turnover has been affecting implementation both at central and particularly at local
level, especially in the last two years.

"The regular and intense donor supervision" and the lack of some kind of Code of Conduct
for donors led to different needs of information or diverse donors opinions in relation to
PROAGRI issues. As a result, MINAG spent considerable time in trying to respond donors
demand on information or actions needs.

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E): Design, Implementation and Utilization

".....The M&E unit was finally established in end 2005 at MINAG".

This is true. However, until presently the unit is not working properly as its still facing basic
problems such as lack of staff, both in terms of quantity and quality.

As part of M&E system for MINAG, the Early Warning System could also be mentioned as
part of the system. EWS and TIA are in fact the two main tools (EWS, crop production) and
to assess field performance (TIA, crops and livestock).

Regarding the Outsourcing: the problem is not only related to poor M&E of these initiatives
by DPAs. There is a need to reinforce DPAs capacity to deal with Outsourcing contracts in
general.

Lessons Learned (page 27):

Listed Lessons are very interesting and useful.

The last mentioned lesson (page 28) is very important. However, although MINAG have
been working under a component system, prioritization was poor. It seems that when
working with non earmarked funds, planning and prioritization are a key issues that should be
clearly assumed at MINAG high level, both at central and provincial levels.



                                            64

Project Benefits (page 36)

Extension

"Annually, some 191630 farmers were getting ...., and improved seed was the major focus,
covering an area of 191630 ha under major food crops..." (page 36)

Yes, improved seed has been one of the major messages. But we cannot relate all assisted
farmers as working with improved seed (191630 ha). Extension works with groups of farmers
and the number of field demonstrations and on farm is low (about or less five percent)
compared with assisted farmers. Farmers adoption has also been low and poor seed market in
rural communitites has also been hampering efforts to encourage adoption of improved seed.

Crop budget and Net income (page 36)

As the document is mentioning the occurrence of two floods and three droughts (the worse in
2004-2005 agricultural with little bit more than 800,000 people assisted through food aid) it
would be useful to make some reference of the effects of such calamities on Net Income.

Agriculture Sector Level Analysis (page 37)

Value of production

"90% of the value of production in agric sector is contributed by the seven basic food crops
(maize, cassava, sorghum, rice, millet, beans/cowpea and groundnut)...." (page 37)

There has been some debate on the need of assessing the contribution of other crops such as
fruits, for example, which had expanded significantly across the country (banana, pineapple,
mango,...). Is the 90% considering contribution from poultry (including rural poultry), cotton,
tobacco and cashew (apparently not, page 31, table1)?

Cashew

"In the project area, 8 million trees were fumigated and one million new disease free
seedlings were distributed to the farmers" (page 36).

Yes, but fumigation program started in 2001 and INCAJU is only benefiting from PROAGRI
co-funding since 2004. Regarding the new seedlings, they are tolerant for disease but not free.

Sustainability (page 38, first paragraph)

Also, examination of project...for four years (1999-2005)....

The mentioned period (99-05) corresponds to more than four years.




                                            65

                      Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


· The essence of the Institutional Reform, PROAGRI, Novembro 1996
· Institutional Development Component of PROAGRI, MINAG, January 22, 1997
· PROAGRI App Mission, Justification, Concept and Objectives, Final Version May
  1998
· Key Policy Issues facing the Moz. Agric Sector at the Beginning of PROAGRI
· Basic Principles and 2001 Benchmarks, PROAGRI Joint Review, May 2000
· PROAGRI, Eval. Report, T&B Consult/CONSIA Consultants/MINAG, May 03
· Functional Analysis and Restructuring Strategy, October 2003
· ProAgri II - 2007-2010, Memorandum of Understanding, 2007
· Excel files for the Economic and Financial Analysis relating to Annex 3
· Borrowers comments on the ICR (in Portuguese)




                                        66

              GABON              RWANDA
                 CONGO     DEM. REP.                                                                             34°                                              36°                                       38°                                          40°
                                          BURUNDI                      INDIAN
                          OF CONGO                                     OCEAN
                                           TANZANIA


                                                                 COMOROS                                                                                               T A N Z A N I A                                                                     PALMA

                     ANGOLA
                                              MALAWI                                                                        LAKE                                                                                                 River
                                                                   Mayotte
                                ZAMBIA                                (Fr)                                                                                                                                              Rovuma                 NANGADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mocimboa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       de Praia
                                    ZIMBABWE                                                                                                                                                                                       MUEDA                   Oasse     MOCIMBOA
                     NAMBIA                   MOZAMBIQUE mbiqueChannel                                                       MALAWI


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Mueda                           DA PRAIA

                            BOTSWANA                    Moza              MADAGASCAR
                                                                                                                                                                                              MECULA
                                                                                            12°                                                                                                                                                  MUIDUMBE                       12°
                                                                                                                                                       SANGA                                                                                          MACOMIA
              ATLANTIC                       SWAZILAND                                                                                                            MAVAGO
               OCEAN                                                                                                                      LAGO                                                  River
                             SOUTH    LESOTHO                                                                                                                                            Lugenda                                              MELUCO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MONTEPUEZ
                            AFRICA                                                                                                                                                                                                  C A B O
                                                                                                                                                            MUEMBE                                                                                          QUISSA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D E L G A D O
                                                                                                                                                                          N I A S S A                                                                        PEMBA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Pemba
                                                         32°                                                                                                                             MARRUPA                                                         Sunate

                                                                                                                                                     Lichinga                                     River                          Monte        Metero
                                                                                              M A L A W I                                                                                                                                                               MECUFI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Puez
                                                                                                                                                                          MAJUNE           Messalo
                             Z A M B I A                                                                                                         LICHINGA                                                      BALAMA                       CHIURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NAMUNO
                                                                                                                                                      NGAUMA
                                                                                                                                                                                  MAUA
              14°                                                                                                                                                                                   NIPEPE                         River      NAMAPA         MEMBA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Lurio                                              14°
                                                                                                                                                            MANDIMBA
                                                                      Cassacatiza                                                                                             METARICA                                                                                      Nacala
                                                                                                                                                                                                          LALAUA          MECUBURI                      ERATI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NACALA-
                                                                          CHIFUNDE
                                                                                                                                                                          CUAMBA                                                                                             A-VELHA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MUECATE

                                                                                                 MACANGA                                                                                  MALEMA                     N A M P U L A
                                                                                                                    ANGONIA                                                  Cuamba                                                           Namiala     MONAPO
                                                                                        T E T E
                                                     MARAVIA                                                                                                                                                RIBAUE              NAMPULA

                                                                                                                                                                                  GURUE
                           ZUMBO                                                                                                                                                                                                          Nampula
                                                                                        Zambeze   CHIUTA                     TSANGANO                           MECANHELAS
                                  Lake                                                                                                      River                                             ALTO                  MURRUPULA                                   MOSSURIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MECONTA
                              Cahora Bassa                                                                                                                                                  MOLOCUE
                                                                                                                                       Chire                                                                 Ligonha            MOGOVOLAS
                                                                                                River          MOATIZE                                           MILANGE                                                                           MOGINCUAI
                                                                                                                                                                             NAMARROI
                                         MAGOE                                                                                                                                            ILE
              16°                                                     CAHORA                                                                                                                                     GILE
                                                                       BASSA                                                                                                                                                                                                    16°
                                                                                                  Tete    Moatize                                                           LUGELA                                                                       ANGOCHE
                                                                                                                                                                                           Nampevo                                                    Angoche
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MOMA
                                                                                    CHANGARA                                                                                  Z A M B E Z I A
                                                                                                                           MUTARARA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PEBANE

                                                                                                Changara        TAMBARA                                                     MOCUBA
                                                                                                                                                          MORRUMBALA
                                                                                                     GURO                       CHEMBA                                                     MAGANJA
                                                                                                                                                                                           DA COSTA

                                                                                                                                                                                       Namacurra

                                                                                                                                                 Caia
                                                                                                                          MARINGUE           CAIA               MOPEIA                   NICOADALA
                                                                                                      MACOSSA                                                                      Quelimane
              18°
                                                                                            B A R U E                                                                           INHASSUNGE                                                                                       18°


                                                                                                                  GORONGOSA                                           CHINDE
                                                                                                                                                          MARROMEU                                        M O Z A M B I Q U E
                                                                                                                                        CHERINGOMA


                      Z I M B A B W E                                                 MANICA          GONDOLA                 S O F A L A
                                                                                                  Vanduzi
                                                                Machipanda                                                                                                                                     C H A N N E L
                                                                                                                                               MUANZA
                                                                                                    Chimoio
                                                                                                                Inchope
                                                                                        M A N I C A               NHAMATANDA
                                                                                                                                         DONDO
                                                                                            SUSSUNDENGA

                                                                                                                                                Beira

              20°                                                                                                           BUZI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                20°
                                                                                                          CHIBABV
                                                                                                                                                                                      M O Z A M B I Q U E
                                                                                                                A

                                                                                MOSSURIZE

                                                                                                                               MACHANGA
                                                                                        MACHAZE                                                                                                  Main roads
                                                                                                                        River
                                                                                                          Save                   GOVURO                                                          Rail corridors:
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Operational
                                                                         MASSANGENA
                                                                                                         MABOTE                      INHASSORO

              22°                                                                                                                                                                                   Currently non-operational                                                   22°
                                                                                                                                      VILANKULO


                                              LimpopoCHICUALACUALA                                        I N H A M B A NE                                                                       Selected cities
                                                                                        CHIGUBO
                                                                                                                                     MASSINGA
                                                                            G A Z A                                                                                                              Province capitals
                                                            River
                                                                                                                   FUNHALOURO
                                                                                                                                                                                                 National capital
                                                                               MABACANE


                                                                                                                                                          MORRUMBENE
                                                                                                                                              HOMOINE                                            District boundaries
                                                       MASSINGIR

                                                                                                                           PANDA                           Inhambane
              24°                                                                                                                                                                                Province boundaries
                                                                                            GUIJA                                                          JANGAMO
                        S O U T H                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               24°
                                                                                                     CHIBUTO
                                                                                                                 MANDLAKAZE
                                                                                                                                 INHARRIME                                                       International boundaries
                                                                                      CHOKWE
                                                                                                        Chibuto                    ZAVALA
                                                                      MABACANE
                       A F R I C A                                  MAPUTO
                                                                                                                  XAI-XAI
                                                                                                              Xai-Xai

                                                   Ressano          MOAMBA                           Bilene
                                                    Garcia                                                                                                                           0                  100                  200                300
                                                                        Sabie              ManhicaBILENE
                                                                                     MANHICA
                                                                                        MARRACUENE
                                                                           Moamba                                                                                                                             KILOMETERS
                                                                                       Marracuene
                                                                                       BOANE
              26°                                 Namaacha                            MAPUTO                                                                                      This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown                         26°
DECEMBER                                          NAMAACHA                                                                                                                        on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                IBRD
                                       SWAZILAND                                                                                                                                  judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                          MATUTUINE                                                                                               acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        29996
        1998
                       32°                                            SOUTH AFRICA                                  34°                                          36°                                  38°                                      40°

              GABON              RWANDA
                 CONGO     DEM. REP.                                                                      34°                                      36°                                 38°                                         40°
                                          BURUNDI                       INDIAN
                          OF CONGO                                      OCEAN
                                           TANZANIA


                                                                  COMOROS                                                                             T A N Z A N I A
                     ANGOLA
                                              MALAWI                                                              LAKE                                                                                      River
                                                                     Mayotte
                                ZAMBIA                                 (Fr)                                                                                                                        Rovuma


                                    ZIMBABWE

                     NAMBIA

                            BOTSWANA          MOZAMBIQUE ambiqueChannel                                           MALAWI



                                                                           MADAGASCAR
                                                       Moz                               12°                                                                                                                                                     12°

              ATLANTIC                       SWAZILAND
               OCEAN                                                                                                                                                       River
                             SOUTH    LESOTHO                                                                                                                       Lugenda
                            AFRICA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Pemba

                                                          32°
                                                                                                                                      Lichinga                               River
                                                                                           M A L A W I                                                                Messalo
                             Z A M B I A

                                                                                                                                                                                                              River
              14°                                                                                                                                                                                       Lurio                                   14°



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Nacala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Port




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Nampula


                                  Lake                                                 Zambeze                               River
                              Cahora Bassa
                                                                                                                        Chire

                                                                                               River

              16°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                16°
                                                                                              Tete




                                                                                                                                                              Quelimane
              18°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                18°



                                                                                                                                                                                     M O Z A M B I Q U E

                      Z I M B A B W E
                                                                                                    Chimoio                                                                               C H A N N E L




                                                                                                                                 Beira

              20°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                20°
                                                                                                                                                                                  M O Z A M B I Q U E
                                                                                                                                                          AGRO-ECOLOGICAL REGIONS

                                                                                                                                                                                      SPECIALIZED AND DIVERSIFIED
                                                                                                             River
                                                                                                      Save

                                                                                                                                                                                      INTENSIVE


                                                                                                                                                                                      SEMI-INTENSIVE
              22°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                22°

                                                                                                                                                                                      SEMI-EXTENSIVE

                                              Limpopo
                                                                                                                                                                                      EXTENSIVE

                                                             River




                                                                                                                                                                                      PROVINCE CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                  Maxixe
                                                                                                                                                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                            Inhambane
              24°

                        S O U T H                                                                                                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                  24°




                       A F R I C A
                                                                                                        Xai-Xai


                                                                                                                                                                0                  100                  200                300

                                                                                                                                                                                         KILOMETERS


                                                                                      MAPUTO
              26°                                                                                                                                            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown               26°IBRD
DECEMBER                                                                                                                                                     on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any

                                       SWAZILAND                                                                                                             judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                             acceptance of such boundaries.                                                             23153R1

        1998
                       32°                                             SOUTH AFRICA                         34°                                   36°                            38°                                      40°

              GABON              RWANDA
                 CONGO     DEM. REP.                                                                              34°                                          36°                                    38°                                         40°
                                          BURUNDI                         INDIAN
                          OF CONGO                                        OCEAN
                                           TANZANIA                                                                                                                                                                                                      Palma


                                                                    COMOROS                                                                                       T A N Z A N I A
                     ANGOLA
                                              MALAWI                                                                      LAKE                                                                                             River
                                                                       Mayotte
                                ZAMBIA                                   (Fr)                                                                                                                                     Rovuma


                                    ZIMBABWE

                     NAMBIA                   MOZAMBIQUE                                                                   MALAWI                                                                                                                        Mocimboa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Oasse de Praia


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mueda

                            BOTSWANA                   Mozambique Channel    MADAGASCAR

                                                                                              12°                                                                                            Mecula
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12°

              ATLANTIC                       SWAZILAND
               OCEAN                                                                                                                                                                       River
                             SOUTH    LESOTHO                                                                                                                                      Lugenda
                            AFRICA



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pemba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sunate
                                                         32°                                                                                                                       Marrupa                                               Metero
                                                                                                                                               Lichinga                                      River                             Monte
                                                                                                M A L A W I                                                                                                                     Puez
                                                                                                                                                                                      Messalo
                             Z A M B I A
                                                                                                                                                                                      Maúa

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             River
              14°                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lurio                                        14°


                                                                         Cassacatiza                                                                                                                                                                          Nacala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Port

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Mecuburi                     Minguri
                                                                                         Chifunde                                                               Cuamba
                                                                                                                                                                                         Malema              Ribáuè                      Namiala

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Nampula
                                                      Fingoé                                                                                                                                                                                                Angoche

                                                                                           Zambeze
                                  Lake                                                                                                River                                   Gurué                           Ligonha
                              Cahora Bassa                                                                                                                                                    Molócuè
                                                                               Songo                                             Chire
                                                                                                  River
                                                   Mágoé
                                                                                                                                                                                   Errego
              16°
                                                                                                    Tete     Moatize                                                                                                                                                16°
                                                                                                                                                           Milange
                                                                                                                                                                                      Nampevo                                                   Angoche



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Moma
                                                                                                    Dauvonga                                                                   Mocuba



                                                                                                                                                                                          Olinga
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Pebane
                                                                                                                             Nhamalabué
                                                                                                                                                                                 Namacurra
                                                                                                                                                                            Nicuadala
                                                                                                                                            Caia

                                                                                                                                                                             Quelimane
              18°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   18°



                                                                                                                                                                                                    M O Z A M B I Q U E
                                                                                                                      Gorongosa                                       Chinde

                      Z I M B A B W E
                                                                                                  Vanduzi
                                                                     Machipanda                            Chimoio                                                                                       C H A N N E L
                                                                                                                   Inchope
                                                                                                       Sussundenga



                                                                                                                            Buzi
                                                                                                                                         Beira

              20°                                                                                                                                                                                  M O Z A M B I Q U E                                              20°




                                                                                          Espungabera                                                                                        PHYSIOGRAPHY

                                                                                                                                             Nova Mambone                                                 ELEVATION IN METERS:

                                                                                                                       River
                                                                                                             Save                                                                                            1500
                                                                                                                                               Inhassoro

                                                                                                                                                                                                             1000


                                                                                                                                                  Vilanculos
              22°                                     Chicualacuala                                                                                                                                          500                                                    22°


                                                                                                                                                                                                             200
                                              Limpopo


                                                                                                                                                                                                             100
                                                              River

                                                                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                                                           Maxixe                                                         RIVERS

                                                                           Massingir                                                                 Inhambane
              24°                                                                                                                                                                                         PROVINCE CAPITALS
                        S O U T H                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   24°


                                                                                                 Guijá                                                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                       Chókwe                 Chibuto                                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                       A F R I C A                                                                                                 Quissico
                                                                                        Magude    Macia
                                                                                                               Xai-Xai

                                                    Ressano                                             Bilene
                                                     Garcia
                                                                               Sabie         Manhica                                                                           0                  100                  200                300

                                                                               Moamba                                                                                                                   KILOMETERS
                                                                                           Marracuene


              26°                                  Namaacha                              MAPUTO                                                                             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.

                                                                                  Bela                                                                                      The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown                   26°IBRD
DECEMBER                                                                         Vista                                                                                      on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any

                                       SWAZILAND                                                                                                                            judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                            acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                 23150R1

        1998
                       32°                                               SOUTH AFRICA                                34°                                     36°                                38°                                      40°

