Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3171-MOZ
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Sector Public Expenditure Program)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 4, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3171-MOZ 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 4, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated January 15, 1999, from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
strengthen the Borrower’s agricultural sector (the Letter) and the basic principles to 
be followed in the carrying out of the activities covered by the Letter (the Basic 
Principles) (the Letter as well as the Basic Principles are collectively referred to 
as the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program; 
(B)
the Borrower has requested that the Association support its execution of 
the Program through a series of Credits over a period of fifteen years, the proceeds 
of such Credits to be utilized by the Borrower for implementing the Program; 
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the 
first phase of the Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing 
of the Project;
(D)
the Borrower intends to obtain from several donors (the Donors), loans 
and grants in an aggregate amount approximately equivalent to one hundred ninety 
million dollars (US$190,000,000) during the period 1999-2003, to assist in financing 
the Program on the terms and conditions set forth in the respective loan and grant 
agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and each of the Donors; 
Page  2
(E)
the Donors have agreed to develop common procedures, consistent with the 
Basic Principles, for the implementation of the Program; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower in support of the first phase of the Program upon 
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:  
(a)
“AWPB” means the annual work plan and budget prepared by the Borrower for 
the purpose of the Project pursuant to paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(b)
“Banco de Moçambique” means the Borrower’s central bank;  
(c)
“Financial Procedures Manual” means the manual adopted by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement containing, inter alia, details on the 
procedures regarding financial management to be used in the implementation of the 
Project and such term includes any schedules to the Financial Procedures Manual; 
(d)
“FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year;  
(e)
“MAP” means Ministerio da Agricultura e Pescas, the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Agriculture and Fisheries; 
(f)
“DAF” means the Department of Administration and Finance within MAP; 
(g)
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators referred to in Schedule 6 
to this Agreement; 
(h)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
Page  3
(i)
“Subprogram” means a group of activities to be carried out each FY under 
the Project, as agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association;   
(j)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and 
(k)
“UDA” means the Project coordination unit established by the Borrower 
under the Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and Development Project (Credit 
No. 2337-MOZ) financed by the Association. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty one million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 21,700,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars, a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 1  and September 1, commencing March 1, 2009 and ending September 1, 2038.  
Each installment to, and including the installment payable on, September 1, 2018 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
Page  4
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgement of the Association, 
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.  
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall, 
consistent with the Basic Principles, carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental 
and technical practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.  
Page  5
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and Account adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and Account referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and Account reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and Account are included in the annual 
audit referred 
to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains 
a separate opinion by said auditors as 
to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than eighteen months after the Effective 
Date, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
Page  6
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.  
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has appointed a national director for DAF;
(b)
the Borrower has formalized the transfer of  the  UDA  to DAF;
(c)
for the purpose of Article IV of this Agreement, the Borrower has 
appointed an accountant, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement; 
(d)
the Borrower has appointed a procurement officer, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(e)
the Borrower has adopted a Financial Procedures Manual, in form and 
substance acceptable to the Association; and
(f)
the Borrower has prepared and furnished to the Association, a procurement 
plan, satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Governor of the Banco de Moçambique is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Governor
Banco de Moçambique
Departamento de Relacoes Internacionais
Page  7
Maputo 
Republic of Mozambique
Cable address: 
Telex:
MOBANCO
6355/7 BMMO
Maputo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By /s/ Marcus Namashualua  
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Regional Vice President  
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
Up to SDR 150,000
100% of foreign
in the aggregate for
and 95% of local
the Subprogram for
expenditures 
FY 1999, and thereafter
under the Subprogram
such amount as
or such other
may be allocated
percentage as the
for the Subprogram
Association
for each FY by may 
Page  8
determine
the Association from time 
to 
time
(2)
Goods
Up to SDR 950,000
100% of foreign
(including vehicles,
in the aggregate for
equipment, and
and 95% of local
equipment, and
the Subprogram for 
expenditures 
training 
FY 1999, and thereafter
materials)
under the Subprogram
materials)
such amount as or such 
other
may be allocated 
percentage as 
the for the Subprogram
Association for each 
FY by may 
determine the 
Association from 
time to time
(3)
Consultants Services
Up to SDR 650,000
100% in the 
aggregate for
the Subprogram for FY 
1999, and 
thereafter 
such amount as
may be allocated for the 
Subprogram for each FY by 
the Association
(4)
Operating Costs
Up to SDR 450,000
100% of foreign in the 
aggregate for and 95% of 
local
the Subprogram for 
expenditures 
FY 1999, and thereafter 
under 
the Subprogram such amount 
as
or such other may be 
allocated
percentage as 
the for the 
Subprogram Association for 
each 
FY by
may determine the 
Association from time to 
time
(5)
Unallocated
19,500,000
__________
TOTAL
21,700,000
==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “operating costs” means incremental 
expenditures incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring 
including office consumables (including communication expenses), staff travel and 
associated subsistence allowances, salaries for incremental contractual and temporary 
staff, office rental, office supplies and maintenance, and fuel and maintenance for 
vehicles and equipment, but excluding salaries of the Borrower’s civil servants. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
Page  9
(b)
a Subprogram, unless: (i) such Subprogram has been approved by the 
Association in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraph 1 to 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower has submitted documents 
satisfactory to the Association consisting of the following: (A) the draft annual 
budget satisfactory to the Association for MAP, submitted to Parliament for the Fiscal 
Year corresponding to the Subprogram; (B) certification of the financial statement by 
the Financial Controller of MAP that the expenditures incurred in the previous 
quarter’s Subprogram were for eligible expenditures and were made in compliance with 
the objectives of the Program.
(c)
payments made for expenditures for goods and services supplied under a 
contract which any national or international financing institution or agency other 
than the Association, shall have financed or agreed to finance under any other credit 
or grant. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, the Borrower shall not make 
any withdrawal request for any expenditures incurred prior to December 31, 2001, under 
Parts D, E, F and G of the Project.
5.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under contracts 
not exceeding $500,000 equivalent; (ii) goods under contracts not exceeding $100,000 
equivalent; (iii) consultants’ services (firms) under contracts not exceeding $100,000 
equivalent; (iv) consultants’ services (individuals) under contracts not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent; and (v) operating costs and training under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve institutional arrangements for 
financing and delivery of core public agricultural services; and (ii) strengthen the 
Borrower’s capacity within MAP, at provincial and local levels, to provide core public 
sector functions for the agricultural sector, in a cost-effective manner.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Development
Carrying out of Subprograms consisting of:
1.
Provision of technical advisory services, training, vehicles, equipment and 
logistical assistance to MAP including: (a) a review of the institutional structure of 
the MAP and the roles and responsibilities assigned to the central, provincial and 
district levels in a market-based framework for sector development; (b) the 
development of human resources, comprising proper deployment of staff and 
establishment of career development to bridge the skills-gap of MAP; (c) the 
improvement of the capacity of MAP in the areas of financial management, budgeting, 
planning, procurement, and carrying out environmental assessment; (d) the development 
of an information system comprising a network for data collection and development of 
monitoring and evaluation, and sector performance indicators; and (e) establishment 
and development of policy formulation and advisory capacity within the directorate of 
economics of MAP. 
2.
Construction or rehabilitation of housing units and facilities for MAP staff at 
the central and provincial locations.
Part B:
Agricultural Research
Carrying out of Subprograms consisting of:
1.
Provision of technical advisory services, training, vehicles and equipment and 
logistical assistance for the: (a) upgrading of the quality and effectiveness of 
Page  10
agricultural research through the establishment of an agricultural research funding 
mechanism under a National Agricultural Research Council, and reform of the research 
institutes, increasing linkages with farmers, extension services, the private sector, 
universities and regional research institutions, and improving research infrastructure 
(research stations and transportation); (b) development of mechanisms to focus on 
research on the generation of practical crops and livestock technologies for 
smallholder farming systems including suitable yield-enhancing agronomic practices, 
and on-farm storage and food conservation technologies; (c) designing steps to 
privatize and contract out some types of research and to make research more 
demand-driven by increasing farmers’ level of participation in priority setting and 
management decisions with regard to the activities undertaken; and (d) establishment 
of mechanisms to encourage research to be carried out in farmers’ fields in 
partnership with farmers and extensionists.  
2.
Construction and rehabilitation of office-buildings, laboratories, glasshouses, 
research farm buildings and irrigation systems, including water distribution and 
storage facilities, electrification systems and fencing, and provision of equipment 
therefor.
Part C:
Agricultural Extension  
Carrying out of Subprograms consisting of:
1.
Provision of technical advisory services, training, vehicles, equipment, and 
logistical assistance to MAP for: (a) the establishment of mechanisms empowering 
farmers to work with local offices of MAP to contract out extension services; (b) the 
upgrading of agricultural extension management by improving  work incentives and 
environment for extensionists, establishing periodic reviews of extension priorities, 
improving the supervision of the national extension network, and improving extension 
infrastructure (including field operations and transportation); (c) the establishment 
of mechanisms to empower farmers and extensionists to draw researchers into their 
fields for collaborative research; (d) the establishment of a technical backstopping 
system accessible to extensionists; (e) the establishment of pilot extension programs 
to test alternative institutional arrangements and extension methodologies including 
the involvement of agribusiness and farmers’ organizations in the provision of 
technical advice; (f) the expansion of the extension services coverage; and (g) the 
establishment of mechanisms for mainstreaming the inclusion of farm management, 
production intensification, gender and environmental issues into the core focus of the 
extension program. 
2.
Construction and rehabilitation of housing units and office and field facilities 
for MAP staff in the provinces, and provision of equipment therefor. 
Part D:
Crop Production
Carrying out of Subprograms consisting of:
1.
Provision of technical advisory services, training, vehicles, equipment and 
logistical assistance to MAP for the: (a) establishment of legal and regulatory 
frameworks for plant protection, seed and input supply; (b) establishment of a 
migratory/pandemic pest control system; and (c) establishment and implementation of a 
crop-forecasting system.  
2.
Construction and rehabilitation of housing units, and storage and other 
facilities in the provinces, and provision of equipment and material therefor.
Part E:
Livestock
Carrying out of Subprograms consisting of:
1.
Provision of technical advisory services, training, vehicles, equipment and 
logistical assistance to MAP to: (a) strengthen public support services of animal 
production and health (including veterinary disease and tsetse control); (b) improve 
regulatory capability (meat and dip inspection, and quarantine); and (c) improve field 
operations and transportation. 
2.
Construction and rehabilitation of housing units for staff and inspection posts 
Page  11
in the provinces, and provision of equipment and material therefor.
Part F:
Forestry and Wildlife Management
Carrying out of Subprograms consisting of:
1.
Provision of technical advisory services, training, vehicles, equipment and 
logistical assistance for the strengthening of MAP’s capacity in forestry and wildlife 
management at central and provincial levels particularly in the areas of: (a) 
planning, monitoring and program and policy evaluation; (b) policy and legislation 
development; (c) regulatory framework development for the private sector and local 
communities involved in the management of forest and wildlife resources; (d) revenue 
enhancement, collection and retention; (e) extension capability to support 
community-based forestry and wildlife management; (f) management development; (g) 
development of a conservation areas management program including surveys and reviews 
of the status of existing parks and forest conservation areas and the launching of a 
program of rehabilitation and management of conservation areas; (h) establishment of 
pilot community programs in selected provinces; and (i) development of a production 
management programs involving pilot inventories, full-scale forest resources 
assessments, classification of forest areas, gazettement and field demarcation, 
identification and award of forest and hunting areas concessions. 
2.
Construction of housing units for staff and rehabilitation of roads within 
forestry reserves.
Part G:
Irrigation 
Carrying out of Subprograms consisting of:
1.
Provision of technical advisory services, training, vehicles, equipment and 
logistical assistance to support MAP in: (a) the preparation of a policy and strategy 
for irrigation development focussed on the development of smallscale irrigation 
schemes to be managed by water users’ associations; and (b) the development of a 
restructuring proposal for the management system of existing large schemes. 
2.
Identifying, appraising and implementing a series of pilot programs, in selected 
provinces, of small-scale, low-cost schemes of irrigation.  
3.
Construction and rehabilitation of housing units for staff, office buildings and 
facilities, and provision of equipment and material therefor.  
4.
Construction and rehabilitation of primary and secondary irrigation canals, land 
leveling, and pumping stations.
Part H:
Land Management
Carrying out of Subprograms consisting of: 
1.
Provision of technical advisory services, training, vehicles, equipment and 
logistical assistance for the development of land management activities being carried 
out by MAP, including social surveys, cadastre activities, and demarcation and 
adjudication. 
2.
Provision of technical advisory services, training, vehicles, equipment and 
logistical assistance for strengthening MAP’s capacity in the areas of land policy 
formulation and land policy reforms through the financing of the activities of the 
Land Commission’s Executive Secretariat. 
3.
Construction and rehabilitation of housing units for staff, office buildings and 
facilities, and provision of equipment and material therefor. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Page  12
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997, subject to the modifications set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A 
(the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
Countries” and “Participating Country”. 
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works and goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $200,000 and $100,000 equivalent or more each respectively.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Republic of 
Mozambique and works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, which the 
Association agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of 
the Guidelines.  
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
3.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
National Shopping
Page  13
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $450,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
5.
Procurement from IAPSO
Individual units of office equipment may be procured from the Inter-Agency 
Procurement Services of the UNDP (IAPSO) in accordance with the provision of paragraph 
3.9 of the Guidelines. 
6.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Parts C, F and G of the Project shall be procured 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
7.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for works and goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 and $100,000 or more, respectively, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $20,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Association a copy of 
the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  14
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, (the Consultant Guidelines), subject to the modifications thereto 
set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A,  and (b) the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section II.  
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the reference to “Bank Member 
Countries” and “Member Country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Under a Fixed-Budget
Services for administrative, training and auditing assignments, estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the 
third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
Page  15
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall, not later than September 1 of each year, prepare and 
furnish to the Association an annual work plan and budget (AWPB) consistent with the 
Basic Principles. The Borrower and the Association shall discuss each AWPB at the 
joint annual review meeting and, after incorporating the comments of the Association, 
the Borrower shall, not later than November 1, approve and implement the AWPB.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provision of paragraph (a) above, for each 
Subprogram, the AWPB shall also include all activities to mitigate and compensate for 
the environmental damages identified in the environmental impact assessment.
2.
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association at the end of the first and third 
quarters of each year, a progress report including information on agreed upon 
Performance Indicators based on data from the monitoring system. The report shall 
include, inter alia: (a) a summary statement on the status of execution of each 
activity under the Project; and (b) a table showing compliance with project covenants 
and progress in implementing agreed policy objectives.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators referred 
to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about May 31, 2001, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30, 2001, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
4.
The Borrower shall: (a) until a date eighteen months after the Effective Date, 
or such earlier date agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association, implement 
the Project through the UDA; and (b) not later than eighteen months after the 
Effective Date or such earlier date agreed upon between the Borrower and the 
Association, take all necessary measures, satisfactory to the Association, to 
disestablish the UDA and vest DAF with the responsibility of Project implementation.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
Page  16
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been  
paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall 
be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.  
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
Page  17
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators
(PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR PERFORMANCE INDICATORS TABLE, IT IS TOO BIG)
