                                    Document of
                                  The World Bank



                                                       Report No: ICR340




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                    (IDA-31570)




                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11 MILLION
                         (US$16.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA

                                      FOR AN

                    ENTERPRISE REHABILITATION PROJECT

                                   JUNE 28, 2007




Private and Financial Sector Development Unit
South Caucasus Department
Europe and Central Asia

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective as of June 21, 2007)

                              Currency Unit = Lari (GEL)
                                    1.00 = US$0.598
                                 US$1.00 = 1.673 GEL

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 ­ December 31


                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BP                  British Petroleum
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CERMA               Center for Enterprise Restructuring and Management
CPS                 Country Partnership Strategy
COC                 Chamber of Control
DCA                 Development Credit Agreement
ERP                 Enterprise Rehabilitation Project
EU TACIS            European Union, Technical Assistance for CIS Countries
FSU                 Former Soviet Union
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
IDA                 International Development Association
IFC                 International Finance Corporation
MOED                Ministry of Economic Development
MTR                 Mid-Term Review
PAD                 Project Appraisal Document
PHRD                Japan Policy and Human Resources Development
PSR                 Private Sector Development
PPF                 Project Preparation Facility
QAG                 Quality Assurance Group
SAC III             Third Structural Adjustment Credit
SEMA                State Enterprise Management Agency
SME                 Small and Medium Enterprise
SOE                 State-Owned Enterprise
SRO                 Self-Regulating Organization
VAT                 Value Added Tax


          Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
        Country Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
         Sector Manager: Gerardo M. Corrochano
     Project Team Leader: Irina Astrakhan
       ICR Team Leader: Irina Astrakhan

                                                 Georgia
                            Enterprise Rehabilitation Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph
 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 16
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 21
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 21
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 23
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 25
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 26
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 27
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 28
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 29
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey........................................................................................ 31
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 33
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 34
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 36
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 37

A. Basic Information

Country:                Georgia                Project Name:          ENT REHAB
Project ID:             P008416                L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-31570
ICR Date:               06/28/2007             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                    Borrower:
                                                                      GEORGIA
Original Total
                        XDR 11.0M              Disbursed Amount:      XDR 11.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
CERMA
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/24/1998     Effectiveness:         09/08/1999        09/08/1999
Appraisal:             05/15/1998     Restructuring(s):                        06/20/2005
Approval:              12/17/1998     Mid-term Review:                         09/04/2001
                                      Closing:               12/31/2003        12/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory           Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory    Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):


                                               i

Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          No                                       Highly Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General industry and trade sector                            100                 100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Other financial and private sector development               Primary
Small and medium enterprise support                          Primary            Primary


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                     Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         D-M Dowsett-Coirolo              Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:           Gerardo M. Corrochano            Alexander E. Fleming
Project Team Leader:      Irina Astrakhan                  Vladimir G. Kreacic
ICR Team Leader:          Irina Astrakhan
ICR Primary Author:       J. Matthew Mitchell



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The original overall development objective of the Enterprise Rehabilitation Project
(ERP) was to promote self-sustainable and continuous adjustment of privatized
enterprises through owner and creditor-led restructuring.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
On June 20, 2005, the Bank, at the request of the Borrower, revised the development
objective as follows:

 "The objective is to promote self-sustainable and continuous restructuring of private
enterprises, including enterprises recently privatized, and to provide support to state-
owned enterprises eligible for privatization."
 (a) Indicators of Meeting the PDO:. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) provided
quantitative indicators mainly of output and only one indicator of the outcome in meeting
the development objective ­ an increase in enterprise productivity. In 2003, the Bank and
the Borrower agreed to monitor three additional outcome indicators: increases in sales,



                                              ii

exports, and tax revenues and set the targets shown below. The actual value achieved
comes from the results of two surveys during two periods. Period I covers data from 40
enterprises during 2001-2002, the first year after completing restructuring/enterprise
development assistance. Period II covers, for 2002-2004, data from 30 enterprises that
completed restructuring/business development programs in 2001, of which 19 had
participated in the previous survey.
 Period III covers, for 2004-2005, 30 enterprises but does not provide a breakdown of
how many were included in the earlier survey.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target   Formally   Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from      Revised    Achieved at
                                                approval       Target   Completion or
                                              documents)       Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Increase in sales revenues (%)
Value                                                                  Period I: 46
quantitative or 0                          40               20         Period II: 33
Qualitative)                                                           Period III: 45
Date achieved 01/05/1999                   12/31/2005       12/31/2003 12/31/2005
                Achievement of target (%):
Comments        Period I: 230
(incl. %        Period II: 165
achievement)    Period III: 225

Indicator 2 :   Increase in exports (%)

Value                                                                  Period I: 39

quantitative or 0                          10               15         Period II: 109

Qualitative)                                                           Period III: -4

Date achieved 01/05/1999                   12/31/2005       12/31/2003 12/31/2005
                Achievement of target (%):
Comments        Period I: 390
(incl. %        Period II: 1009
achievement)    Period III: (No increase )

Indicator 3 :   Increased fiscal revenues and local budgets

Value                                                                  Period I: 38

quantitative or 0                          15               15         Period II: 32

Qualitative)                                                           Period III: 13

Date achieved 01/05/1999                   12/31/2005       12/31/2003 12/31/2005
                Achievement of target (%):
Comments        Period I: 253
(incl. %        Period II: 213
achievement)    Period III: 87

Indicator 4 :   Increase in labor productivity (%)



                                                iii

                                                                              Period I: 40

Value                                                                         Period II: Not

quantitative or 0                          15                  15             reported

Qualitative)                                                                  Period III: Not
                                                                              reported

Date achieved 01/05/1999                   12/31/2005          12/31/2003      12/31/2005
                Achievement of target (%):
Comments        Period I: 267
(incl. %        Period II: Not applicable
achievement)    Period III: Not applicable



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                         Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised        Completion or
                                              documents)       Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   CERMA trained consultants employed by private sector
Value
(quantitative   0                          30                  30             50
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/05/1999                   12/31/2005          12/31/2005      12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement of target (%): 167
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Introduction of the innovations/initiatives in management training for
                participating companies
Value                                                          No             New
(quantitative   0                          0                   quantitative   product/processes
or Qualitative)                                                target given   in 29 companies
Date achieved 01/05/1999                   12/31/2005          12/31/2003      12/31/2006

Comments        Achievement of target (%): NA

(incl. %        A survey of 29 companies showed that the introduction of new products,

achievement)    production processes and management system improvements had contributed to
                increases in sales and/or reductions in production costs or inventory.
Indicator 3 :   Number of managers and consultants trained
Value                                      200 consultants                    220 consultants
(quantitative   0                                              0              173 managers
or Qualitative)                            and 150 managers

Date achieved 01/05/1999                   11/25/1998          12/31/2005      12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement of target (%)t: 110 for consultants; 115 for managers
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Cerma fully staffed and self-sustainable
Value                                      Cerma is self-                     Two self
(quantitative   0                          sustainable         0              sustainable



                                                iv

or Qualitative)                                                           companies:
                                                                          CERMA
                                                                          Consulting
                                                                          CERMA Training
                                                                          deliver a variety of
                                                                          consulting, short-
                                                                          term training
                                                                          programs, and an
                                                                          Executive MBA
                                                                          Program

Date achieved 01/05/1999                12/31/2005          12/31/2005    12/31/2006

Comments       Achievement of target (%): 100

(incl. %       Note: In addition, CERMA is receiving funds from BP and IFC for the

achievement)   establishment of a business incubator for high-technology enterprises.

Indicator 5 :  Successful implementation of restructuring projects
Value
(quantitative  0                         100 by end of      n/a           171 by end of

or Qualitative)                         project                           project

Date achieved 01/05/1999                12/31/2005          12/31/2005    12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Achievement of target (%): 171
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                         IP               Disbursements
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     07/02/1999          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     12/29/1999          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     1.89
  3     06/21/2000          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     2.45
  4     06/27/2000          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     2.45
  5     12/21/2000          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     2.80
  6     06/18/2001          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     4.15
  7     12/26/2001          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     4.98
  8     06/28/2002          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     6.62
  9     12/27/2002          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     7.75
  10    06/23/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     9.32
  11    12/23/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    10.90
  12    06/18/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    12.15
  13    12/21/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    13.55
  14    06/13/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    14.10
  15    12/16/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    14.40
  16    06/25/2007          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    15.06




                                              v

H. Restructuring (if any)

                          ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring    Board    Restructuring Disbursed at  Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)     Approved                 Restructuring
              PDO Change                                  Key Changes Made
                           DO     IP      in USD
                                          millions
                                                     To extend the project's

  06/20/2005        N       S      S         14.10   beneficiaries to include State-
                                                     Owned Enterprises (SOEs) in a
                                                     pre-privatization status.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                       vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country background

When the Bank appraised the Enterprise Rehabilitation Project (ERP) in 1998, Georgia
had begun its transition to market-based economy, privatizing a large number of state-
owned enterprises (SOEs)--about 10,000 small enterprises and 1000 medium-and-large
enterprises. However, about three quarters of the equity in these enterprises remained in
Government hands. Georgia's GDP around the time of project appraisal was equivalent
to less than a third of the level it had been in 1989. In addition to the loss of the former
Soviet Union (FSU) as the major market for its manufacturing sector, Georgia had to
contend with political upheaval and natural disasters, which took a substantial toll on the
economy. Overall, the country's key economic indicators were below those of other
countries in the Europe/Central Asia Region. Georgia, with a population of 4.5 million,
had a per capita GNP of $840, which was bout 36 percent of the average for the region
($2,320).1

Sector profile

The project's technical assistance focused on improving the performance of the
manufacturing sector. Studies during ERP's preparation had shown that only about 52
percent of manufacturing enterprises were profitable and that the unofficial economy had
risen dramatically, from about 12 percent in 1989 to 63 percent (1995 estimate). A
substantial number of vibrant, privatized or new private enterprises had failed to emerge
in the transition process due to several unresolved issues that had become barriers to
private sector development. First, enterprises faced an overly restrictive and discretionary
regulatory environment.2 Second, public opinion of privatization was often unfavorable,
due in part to the immediate loss of jobs that resulted from the dismantling of SOEs.
Third, the leaders of the privatized enterprises usually were not entrepreneurs by nature
but former managers of SOEs, who were used to responding to production orders from
the Former Soviet Union (FSU). Fourth, there was a market failure in the development of
institutional support to help privatized former SOEs thrive in a competitive market.

Rationale for Bank involvement

ERP supported the top priority of the Georgia's 1997 Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS)3, which was to help deepen and diversify sources of economic growth by
removing existing barriers to private sector development. Also, about several months
after the ERP's appraisal, the Bank approved Georgia's Third Structural Adjustment



1Total GDP amounted to about $5.2 billion, allocated by sector as follows: agriculture, 31.6 %; industry 23.4 % and
services 45%.
2These included arbitrary interpretations of laws and regulations and their selective enforcement, multiple licensing
requirements and overlapping institutions claiming jurisdiction of over various aspects of business activity.
3Document No. 17000-GE (Discussed on October 21, 1997).


                                                           1

Credit (SAC III) 4 , which supported the Government's reform program to reduce
macroeconomic imbalances and provide an incentive structure for private sector
development. ERP was to focus on the enterprise-level barriers to private sector
development while the Bank's macroeconomic policy dialogue and SAC III were to
address the policy-related barriers. The Bank had coordinated the preparation of ERP
(SDR 11 million) with that of SAC III (SDR 60 million), not only because they were
complementary but also because ERP alone was not sufficiently large to leverage policy
changes crucial to its success.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The project's original overall development objective was to promote self-sustainable and
continuous restructuring of private enterprises, including enterprises recently privatized.
In support of this primary objective, the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) specified
five detailed subsidiary objectives and related indicators, as shown in Table 1.

                         Table 1: Project Development Objectives and Indicators
Project Objectives                                   Indicators
1. Improve efficiency of private and privatized          · Successful implementation of 100
enterprises, directly and through a demonstration             restructuring projects by the end of the
effect.                                                       project, confirmed periodically by Bank
                                                              supervision and studies.
                                                         · Dissemination of success stories and
                                                              restructuring know-how to at least 300
                                                              enterprises.
2. Develop managerial capacity for continuous             · Training of 150 managers in leading
enterprise adjustment in response to market signals.          enterprises abroad.
                                                          · Increase of at least 20 % in value added
                                                              /employee two years after secondment.
                                                          · On the job training of 200 Georgian
                                                              restructuring consultants.
3. Strengthen institutional capacity to facilitate       · Building skills and resources in a non-
reform and build constituency and basis for constant          governmental executing agency (CERMA)
Private Sector Development (PSD) through                      according to a CERMA Development Plan
publications and public awareness campaign.                   agreed with the Bank.
                                                         · Growing public approval for enterprise
                                                              reforms confirmed by an independent
                                                              public opinion analysis.

4. Support creation of associations of enterprise    Functioning, self-regulating organizations (SROs)
consultants and private enterprise managers.         of enterprise consultants and private enterprise
                                                     managers.
5. Support creation of new small private businesses  Increasing contribution of new small and medium
by releasing assets from restructured privatized     sized enterprises (SMEs) to employment, Gross
companies.                                           Domestic Product (GDP) and the budget.




4Document No. P-7316-GE (June 4, 1999)


                                                   2

1.3 Revised project development objective

At the request of the Borrower, in June 2005, the Bank amended the project's
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) to expand the scope of the project's main
development objective to include, as beneficiaries, SOEs scheduled for privatization. The
revised objective, as stated in the amendment to the DCA, was to "promote self-
sustainable and continuous restructuring of private enterprises, including enterprises
recently privatized, and to provide pre-privatization support to state-owned enterprises
included in the privatization program." The amendment to the project's objective made
no change in the key monitoring indicators.5

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

Original Beneficiaries

Primary target group:
     · Owners and managers of privatized enterprises ready for restructuring.6
     · New and existing entrepreneurs seeking access to productive assets and the know-
          how to operate in the competitive business environment.
     · Existing and future employees of restructured (rehabilitated) enterprises.
     · The local pool of consultants and managers exposed to the new market system.7

Indirect beneficiaries:

     · Enterprises not receiving direct restructuring assistance and training.8
     · The population at large.9

Revised beneficiaries

In addition to the above beneficiaries, the amendment of the project's development
objective, as noted in Section 1.3, expanded the group of direct beneficiaries to include
SOEs slated for privatization by the Government.




5In 2003, the Bank and the Government had reviewed the quantitative indicators and qualitative indicators for
assessing the project's outcome in meeting the objective. However, the quantitative indicators for the expected outputs
of project components designed to achieve the outcome, remained the same.
6The project's assistance in business development and training were to benefit the owners, operators, and employees of
participating enterprises directly. Increased sales and lower costs were to result in greater profits for the owners and in
turn lead to expanded employment.
7The local pool of consultants receiving specialized training for restructuring assistance was to grow and provide a
domestic capability for assisting enterprises after the project's completion.
8Extensive dissemination activities of the know-how obtained by the direct beneficiaries and success stories showing
improved performance of the enterprises participating in the project were to motivate non-participating enterprises to
improve their viability in the market and encourage entrepreneurs to start new businesses. And these groups of
businesses were to form a new client base for CERMA's services.
9The increased tax revenues to the Government resulting from greater income of both enterprises and employees were
to expand the Government's revenue base, which could fund social programs that would benefit population at large.


                                                           3

Project Components

Enterprise Rehabilitation Component (US$15.3 million). This larger of the project's
two main components consisted of advisory services, to privatized former SOEs and new
private enterprises, for improvements to their profitability, through a set of actions for
better operational, financial and managerial efficiency. The Center for Restructuring and
Management Assistance (CERMA), a local non-profit agency created during the project's
preparation,10 was to conduct, for each enterprise selected to participate in the project, an
initial diagnostic study of the participating enterprise's operational and financial
performance. This study was to identify the types of advisory services required and assess
the receptivity of the enterprise's management to implementing the actions recommended
by consultant advisors. For the advisory services, CERMA was to hire foreign
consultants with a proven track record of improving enterprise performance in transition
economies. Also these consultants were to provide extensive on- the- job training to
Georgian consultants in this type of diagnostic work.11

CERMA was to estimate the cost of advisory services for each enterprise, subject to
approval by the World Bank, and pay the expenses of consulting services from the
proceeds of the IDA Credit for the project. Each participating enterprise was to make a
co-payment for the services received. CERMA was to recover this payment from the
enterprise. The payment was supposed to amount to no less than five percent of the
advisory services that CERMA paid to the consultant. CERMA and the beneficiary
enterprise were to sign a contract with a schedule of payments tailored to the services
provided, before the start of the consulting assignment.

Managerial and Consulting Skills (US$6.1 million). This component was to expose the
managers of the participating enterprises and Georgian consultants for enterprise
restructuring to new concepts of market-oriented management through practical
internships in leading firms abroad. The component's model was the Marshall Plan of
technical assistance to industries in Western Europe following the Second World War.12
CERMA was to design and deliver an in-house, crash course in basic skills, which also
was to be the first stage of training for managers and senior professionals selected for
secondment abroad. This initial course was to cover major commercial languages
relevant to Georgia, particularly English, essential computer skills, basic management
and business communications. The target group for participation in the program consisted
senior or medium-level managers from privatized former SOEs, or newly formed private
enterprises, operating in the industrial or agro-processing sectors.



10The Government created this entity, which became the Implementing Agency for the project, with a grant of 2.9
million from EU Tacis. This grant covered the pilot activities in enterprise restructuring.
11If the diagnostic study showed that a participating enterprise could make sufficient improvements in its efficiency
and profitability without significant capital investment, CERMA was to provide the company with additional
consulting assistance to implement the recommended actions. If not, the assistance was to end with the diagnostic study.
A participating enterprise proceeding to the next phase of assistance was to create a turnaround management team
dedicated to implementing the recommended action program.
12This program took place between 1948 and 1960 introducing war-ravaged countries of Western Europe to advanced
technologies for production processes in various industries. The program provided about 24,000 managers first-hand
experience of concepts of workplace, marketing and business organization as well as new products, designs, and
manufacturing equipment.


                                                        4

From groups of candidates participating in the initial course (estimated at 400 during
project appraisal) CERMA was to select 150 candidates for secondment to designated
firms in order for the participants to experience, hands-on, how a combination of skills,
organization and technology could help a company respond to changing market demands.
Each manager was to have two internships, one in a transition market economy and
another in an advanced market economy.13 To ensure transparency in the selection
process for the secondment, a special Selection Committee was to make the final choice
of candidates. This committee was to consist of representatives from CERMA, the
Government, SROs of Georgian consultants specializing in enterprise restructuring, and
the banking/enterprise sectors.

1.6 Revised Components

There was no formal revision to the project's components. However, due to additional
funding available, CERMA was able to expand the number of participants in the
Managerial and Consulting Skills Component. Also, because of the modification of the
project's objective, the scope of the Enterprise Rehabilitation Component expanded to
cover technical assistance to the SOEs scheduled for privatization.

1.7 Other significant changes

In design, scope and scale:

     · Shift to the assistance to clusters of enterprises in similar sectors for greater
           synergy and economies of scale.14

     · Redirection of enterprise assistance toward new private enterprises in response to
           market demand.

     · Improvement in the quality of results monitoring by adding several quantitative
           indicators of project outcome and establishing a clear methodology for results
           analysis.

In implementation arrangements and scheduling:

     · Three extensions of the project's closing date, increasing the implementation
           period by three years, due to a combination of changes in approach to
           restructuring; the adverse impact of the volatile, pre-Rose Revolution, political
           climate; and the inclusion of SOEs slated for privatization as beneficiaries of the
           project.15


13Participants in the secondment program were to sign notarized, up-front contracts to engage in dissemination
activities to share their experience with non-participants and thereby expand the reach of the project's impact.
14Agriculture (tea production and processing, hazelnut production); food and beverages; construction, tourism;
manufacturing; and pharmaceuticals.
15The first extension of the project's closing date (from 12/31/03 to 12/31/04) was necessary for the introduction of the
new approach to providing assistance to clusters of enterprises. The second extension (from 12/31/04 to 12/31/05) was


                                                          5

In funding allocations:

     · Savings in procurement for the training of enterprises managers abroad, which
          allowed a significant increase in the number of managers that could benefit
          directly from secondment to leading industries in transition and advanced market
          economies.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Preparation and background analysis

The preparation of the project contained considerable background analysis on the
economy and the manufacturing sector. It consisted of studies and surveys that provided a
detailed account of the manufacturing sector's stagnation and the dramatic decline in
employment.        16  The background studies also described the behavioral aspects of
enterprise management linked to the former Soviet system, particularly the managers'
lack of the necessary skills to move their enterprises forward in a market economy.17
Furthermore, the survey information was useful in designing the project's components.
After the collapse of the Soviet Union, the local market could not sustain the former large
scale of production and Georgia had no substantial alternative external market. Most
managers/owners engaged in reactive restructuring, rather than proactive restructuring,
normally by shutting down operations for part of the year, or reducing the workforce.18
These managers, who typically lacked the skills to make market-based decisions for their
companies' viability, without a realistic recovery plan, were unduly optimistic about the
future of their company.           19 The studies warned that this post-privatization behavior was



necessary for: (a) the procurement of consulting assignments, which had been delayed due to volatile political situation
that discouraged consultants to apply; and (b). the completion of the training program for an additional 40 managers.
The third extension (from 12/31/05 to 12/31/06) was necessary to: (a) process the amendment to the project's DCA to
include SOEs in a pre-privatization status; (b) complete all proposed assistance for these SOEs; and (c) complete
rehabilitation work in progress for a cluster of 12 small enterprises in the high-technology field.
16A review of the industrial enterprise sector in November 1997 pointed out the poor performance of Georgia in
comparison to other FSU countries. The study showed that real GDP in Georgia had achieved only 31 percent of its
level before the collapse of the FSU, the lowest level in a group of 15 FSU countries. Also foreign direct investment in
Georgia was merely a fraction of what it was in other FSU countries. Overall the average number of employees
declined from 591 to 157 employees. Value added per worker in Georgia was US$529, the lowest in a group of nine
countries surveyed during the preparation of ERP.
17 Of particular importance was the difference between the privatization process in Georgia compared to other
transition countries. In Georgia management/owner buyout was the main form of privatization compared to mass
privatization in Moldova and some other FSU countries. As a result, in Georgia, the former SOE managers became
owners, but their behavior did not change much after privatization.
18Many companies stopped producing completely during the period 1992-96. Manager/owners often would "sit on"
assets. Despite declining sales, managers were often reluctant to sell equipment or space, saving them for better times
in the future.
19For example in one of the cases studied, a German company offered to buy 300 sewing machines from a Georgian
manufacturer, who had not used them for five years. However, the manager refused thinking he might need them in the
future. In order to survive, managers sometimes would produce small amounts of goods or sell/rent assets, all of which
went unrecorded. In some cases, managers paid themselves high salaries or purchased luxury items. Essentially many
managers were engaging in "asset stripping."


                                                          6

likely to be more damaging in Georgia than in other countries of the FSU, where the
release of assets to private entrepreneurs had taken place much sooner.

Project design

Importance and clarity of objectives. ERP's overall development objective­promoting
self-sustainable and continuous restructuring of private enterprises­supported one of the
main objectives of SAC III, which was to assist the Government in implementing its
reform program to reduce macroeconomic imbalances and provide an adequate incentive
structure for private sector development.20 SAC III and ERP together supported one of
the key priorities of the 1997 CAS, which was to strengthen and diversify sources of
economic growth by removing barriers to privatization. In this overall context, SAC III
was to help remove policy, legal and administrative barriers. However, findings during
project preparation had indicated that policy actions would be necessary but not sufficient
conditions for the desired expansion of the private sector. Assistance to remove
operational barriers at the enterprise level, which ERP was to provide, would be crucial
as well. The project targeted the manufacturing sector in particular because of the large
amount of unused assets and the failure to thrive in the new market environment.

The project's objectives addressed the two main issues affecting the transition of
privatized SOEs to viable private enterprises. The first was the lack of institutional
support to help companies find their niche in the new market economy and restructure
their operations accordingly. The second issue was the lack of managerial capacity, not
only to make decisions about restructuring but also to prepare and follow a new business
plan as well as provide corporate leadership in market-based economy.21 The Bank's
strategic choice in addressing these issues was to develop a program of public/private co-
financing for an initial restructuring program and a training program.

Design of components. The PAD clearly defined the project's components. Essentially
ERP merged, into one project, the features two successful projects in Moldova for
enterprise restructuring and management training. The project's design reflected some
amount of stakeholder input. In the course of the studies, the project's preparation team
conducted a survey of 92 enterprises with more than 25 employees.22 Although many of
the enterprises reported profits, a closer look at their reports showed that they were based
on calculations that excluded the full unit cost of production. In terms of constraints,
most of the enterprises cited the lack of financing as the major constraint,23 followed by
competition from imports. However, when asked what type of training would be the most
useful, the first choice was secondment to a similar enterprise in a country with a more




20The Bank was to release Credit funds in three tranches of US$20 million on completion of key policy actions in
several areas: removal of macroeconomic imbalances, development of a favorable business environment favorable to
private sector development, reform of land ownership, and divestiture of the State from productive activities.
21Usually this restructuring would involve downsizing, involving the sale or rental of unproductive assets to help pay
off debts and/or the retrenching of staff.
22The 92 sample enterprises selected from a group of 12,326 enterprises that had begun operations before 1991 and had
more than 25 employees.
23Of these 92 firms, 49 did not have sufficient funds to purchase the necessary material inputs.


                                                          7

advanced market economy and the second choice was to attend courses in marketing
distribution. The project ultimately made available both types of training.

Donor coordination. In designing the ERP, the Bank was in close touch with various
donor agencies operating in Georgia and modified the final design of the project to take
into account the full spectrum of assistance available to the country. Initially the ERP was
to include assistance in the development of capital markets and the banking system.
However, due to the availability of other donor assistance in these areas, the Bank
focused ERP's assistance at the enterprise level. EU TACIS provided funds for
establishing CERMA, and as noted earlier, a Japan Policy and Human Resources
Development (PHRD) Grant supported the restructuring of selected enterprises and the
training of Georgian consultants to assist enterprises in restructuring.

Key lessons incorporated in the design. ERP incorporated several key lessons from
other restructuring and training operations to support private enterprise development. The
first was the need for a strong government commitment to restructuring, an activity that is
often difficult and unpopular. The Government demonstrated this commitment by
creating CERMA prior to the project's appraisal and agreeing to modify CERMA's terms
of reference, in order to accommodate the project. At the operational level, the PAD
emphasized the lesson that local consultants should learn restructuring skills from foreign
consultants and deliver high-quality services at affordable local prices. Therefore, ERP
placed considerable emphasis on training Georgian consultants and widely disseminating
the results of the pilot restructuring achieved during both project preparation and
implementation. The pilot restructuring and training during the project's preparation also
was instructive. The main lesson learned was that there was a demand for CERMA's
services from a group of managers willing to be proactive in improving enterprise
operations. This required taking a number of measures that seemed radical in the
Georgian context.24

Project complexity and capability of the implementing agency. Initially the Bank had
considered a more complex project, but given the presence of other donor activity,
ultimately decided to concentrate on two components for developing the capability of
enterprises to compete in a market environment. The lack of components for financial
intermediation and capital markets development vastly simplified the project.
Furthermore, the project only focused on enterprises that were likely to turn around their
performance with a realistic business plan, restructuring and training, and without any
capital investment. The final design, with the set up of CERMA during the project's
preparation, was moderately complex but within CERMA's reach by the time the project
became effective.

Prior to project appraisal, CERMA, the implementing agency, already had demonstrated
its capability to handle the project by assisting in the restructuring of 8-12 enterprises and



24These measures included: (a) the sale of lease of unused or underutilized assets; (b) a shift from traditional suppliers
in the FSU to new global suppliers; (c) door-to-door marketing of goods; (d) an intensive search for customers abroad;
(e) increases in cash sales and reduction of barter operations; (f) introduction of new products and improvements to the
quality of existing products; and (g) improved financial results that ultimately would enable enterprises to attract new
investment capital.


                                                          8

the training of 40 consultants with funds from EU TACIS and the project's preparation
facility (PPF).

Government commitment

The Government had shown its commitment to the project by forming CERMA and
requesting project preparation funds, which CERMA used for pilot activities. Also the
project benefited from ongoing dialogue for the preparation of SAC III, which ultimately
included a Letter of Development Policy, in which the Government detailed its future
policy for privatization. In this letter, the Government acknowledged barriers to private
sector development at the policy level and its intention to introduce measures that would
enhance the business environment in response to complaints from private enterprises.25

Risks and mitigation measures identified

Overall the project's preparation and appraisal teams adequately assessed the risks that
the project faced and provided for reasonable mitigation measures. The PAD assessed, as
moderate, the risk that : (a) the demand for the project's restructuring services would not
materialize as expected; and (b) the Government would not establish a supportive
regulatory framework or make substantial progress in implementing the reform agenda.
The Bank had mitigated these risks by identifying an initial set of 100 enterprises likely
to be eligible for financing and developing a pilot project for restructuring and training
prior to the Board approval of the project. Furthermore, the parallel preparation of SAC
III, which was to begin at approximately the same time as the project, provided greater
leverage for the improved privatization agenda and improved regulatory framework.

The PAD noted as substantial, the risk of delay in the creation of an efficient system of
management accountability and resistance to making difficult choices involved in
enterprise restructuring, as well as limited demand for secondment abroad. The
mitigation of this risk was primarily the requirement that companies organize a
turnaround team committed to implementing recommendations for the structure of the
company and developing a realistic business plan. Also, while the project's surveys
during preparation had noted that many managers typically resisted major changes, they
also had called attention to a group of managers who were open to change and assistance.
In particular, the surveys had shown managers' interest in internships abroad.
Furthermore, CERMA was to conduct a heavy public relations effort to demonstrate the
advantages of proactive restructuring and through the dissemination of successful results
and thereby increase its client base.




25These measures were to include a simplified, transparent licensing program and a modernized framework for
certification and accreditation. The Government also indicated its willingness to establish a partnership with the
business community, creating a viable feedback mechanism, and act swiftly to correct any abuses. In this context, the
Government had appointed a high-level investment council, chaired by the President and consisting of representatives
of the business community and CERMA.




                                                    9

Evaluation of quality at entry

There was no quality evaluation of this project at entry. Overall the ICR finds the quality
at entry was satisfactory based on: (a) the depth of analysis behind the design, which
included two analytical studies prepared for the PAD; (b) adequate alignment of the
project's objectives with the higher-level objectives of the CAS; (c) clearly-defined
components that incorporated lessons learned from past projects and involved a
participatory process through surveys; and (d) an acceptable evaluation or risks. However,
there were deficiencies in both the content and the presentation of the PAD. These
deficiencies did not outweigh the above strengths of the project's preparation or
adversely affect the project's final outcome but bear mentioning in the interest of quality
control for Bank reports.

In terms of content, the PAD did not (a) reflect the wealth of analysis in the preparation
work; (b) provide an adequate statement of issues and strategy; (c) contain a clear
framework for evaluating cost effectiveness; or (d) include sufficient quantitative
indicators for monitoring the project's outcome. As for presentation, there were slight
differences in the statement of the overall development objective contained in the PAD
compared to the DCA and there was an inconsistency in the presentation of the objectives
between the main text and the project's design summary.

The overall rating of quality at entry also reflects the satisfactory quality-at-entry that the
Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) gave the project during its assessment of the
quality of the project's supervision in 2005.

2.2 Implementation

Project changes/restructuring

The main change that took place in the design of the project was a minor restructuring of
project funds in response to an amendment of the DCA to include assistance to SOEs that
the Government considered a priority for privatization. In early 2005, the Government
requested this change, which the Bank granted. Also in 2005, the project's undisbursed
and uncommitted funds amounted to about US$700,000. The Bank agreed with the
Government, the Ministry of Economic Development (MOED) and the State Enterprise
Management Agency (SEMA), to use the remaining funds for advisory services to
priority enterprises scheduled for privatization26 and capacity-building for MOED and
SEMA.




26The assistance to SOEs slated for privatization included diagnostic analysis, defensive restructuring and business
valuation.




                                                     10

Impact of the Mid-Term Review (MTR)

The MTR for ERP confirmed the validity of the original project objective and noted the
project's overall satisfactory performance. Furthermore, the MTR noted that CERMA
had begun to take a more active role in advising the Government on policymaking. The
main focus of this advisory role was on providing the Government with feedback on the
view of the evolving business environment from perspective of private and privatized
enterprises.

In line with its policy advisory role, CERMA presented the findings of a survey on the
regulatory costs of doing business in Georgia, covering 600 enterprises. The survey found
that the major problem was the arbitrary application of rules and regulations, which often
penalized companies for compliance because they had to bear the cost of those who were
able to evade the system through a variety of means.

The MTR made several recommendations, which, with hindsight, marked a major turning
point in the project. They caused CERMA to evaluate its future role in enterprise
assistance and gear the agency's enterprise rehabilitation and training programs to the
changing market for consultancy services. In particular, the MTR helped focus
CERMA's attention on preparing a client needs assessment in response to the
diminishing population of mid-sized private and privatized enterprises and a growing
population of small enterprises.

Furthermore, the Bank suggested an initial strategy, which, in addition to a review of
CERMA's existing client base, included: (a) an active search for new clients; (b)
prioritization and clarification of assistance needs among the target clients; and (c) pilot
projects to accommodate the needs of a more diverse client base, possibly including
SOEs not yet privatized, research institutions, etc. In addition, the MTR called attention
to the need for the development of monitoring and evaluation activities to assess not only
the project's outputs -- such as the number of enterprises restructured and managers
trained--but also the impact of these outputs on enterprise performance. Finally the MTR
helped CERMA focus on developing an exit strategy upon project's completion.

Summary of key issues and actions taken

Issue: Need for a shift in the approach to enterprise restructuring

The Bank and CERMA noted that the main client base of for ERP--privatized medium
SOEs--was declining while the prospects for assisting new enterprises, smaller in size,
were increasing.

Related actions and results. The Bank recommended that CERMA conduct a survey of
client needs to determine how the agency should market its services. During 2003-2004,
in order to respond to market needs and for greater efficiency in service provision,
CERMA changed its approach to focus on clusters of enterprises. As a result, CERMA
hired one consulting company for each of three main cluster groupings consisting of 30
enterprises in the food and beverages sector (including nuts and tea); 15 enterprises in the

                                            11

wood processing and furniture industry; and 15 enterprises in the construction, tourism
and industry sectors.

In addition to enterprises in traditional sectors, toward the end of the project (2005-2006),
CERMA began "cluster" assistance to 12 industries cited as "innovation small and
medium enterprises (SMEs)." These "innovation SMEs" covered a wide range of
technologies, including biotechnologies, plasma technologies, holography, optical/laser
devices, etc. With CERMA's assistance, four out of twelve companies were able to
secure grants or other types of financial assistance that allowed them to work on
prototypes necessary to start a pilot operation or enter into technology transfer
arrangements. Also, a group of enterprise managers benefited from study tours to Greece.
Furthermore, CERMA began the implementation of a joint project to establish a
Technology Business Incubator, with the assistance of British Petroleum (BP) and the
International Finance Corporation (IFC).

Issue: Shift in the Government's priority in private sector development toward
assistance to SOEs slated for privatization

In 2005, the Government decided to give priority to its program of accelerating the
privatization of the remaining SOEs. In this context, the Government requested the use of
project funds to finance pre-privatization assistance to a selected group of SOEs.
However, the DCA had not included SOEs as beneficiaries of the ERP.

Related actions and results. The Bank advised the Government on the principles of good
practice in privatization, noting deficiencies in past efforts. And as indicated earlier, the
Bank agreed to modify the DCA to provide assistance in preparing enterprise for
privatization. As a result of this change, the project supported pre-privatization work in
seven SOEs­a telecommunications company, an aviation factory, an airport, two hotels, a
manufacturing company, and a construction company. However, the Bank did not
become involved in handling any privatization transactions.




                                            12

Issue: Project delays resulting from the Government's taxation policy

In the early stages of the ERP, the Government had a policy of taxing the salaries of
foreign consultants. This policy, which was applicable to all projects, not just ERP, had
an adverse impact on CERMA's budget for the project, as Bank policy did not allow the
use of Credit funds for the payment of taxes.

Related action and results. The Bank sent a letter to the Ministry of Finance stating that
World Bank funds could not be used to finance taxes imposed by Borrowers. The Bank
proposed that the Government consider exempting short-term foreign consulting
assignments from income and profits taxes as well as a value added tax (VAT). The
Government later agreed to the exemption.

Issue: Difficulties encountered by small enterprises in making co-payments for
CERMA's services

During ERP's implementation, CERMA brought to the Bank's attention that the
requirement of a minimum of five percent co-payment could hamper small companies
from benefiting from assistance under the project.

Related action and results. The Supervisory Board of CERMA discussed the issue
extensively at its meeting. The Board concluded that the project's outreach was more
important than the cost recovery requirement and that the reduction in the minimum co-
payment would not have an adverse impact on CERMA's activities. At the request of the
Borrower, the Bank amended the DCA to lower the minimum payment to two percent of
the cost of assistance. However, in practice, the share of the co-payment depended on the
individual enterprise, with the average being higher than five percent and some larger
enterprises paying as high 20 percent.

Issue: Project audits by the Government's Chamber of Control (COC)

During the project's implementation, the COC conducted audits of agencies managing
foreign-financed project, including CERMA. Auditors occupied CERMA's offices for six
to nine months, placing substantial demands on CERMA's staff. Furthermore, the
auditors requested an expansion of their activities to cover the auditing of private
enterprises receiving assistance from CERMA. This action would have undermined the
entire project, making it very difficult for CERMA to develop a client base.

Related actions and results. Bank missions met with the COC's representatives and
discussed several options for project impact evaluation. Ultimately, discussions among
the Bank, CERMA, COC and the Ministry of Finance led to approaches to project
monitoring and performance that were acceptable to all parties. One of the results was the
revision of the project's logframe and results matrix, including additional quantitative
performance indicators.




                                            13

Risk status of the project

At no time during the project's implementation did the Bank formally cite ERP as "at
risk" for not meeting its development objectives.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

In 2003, the Bank and the Government revised the project's logfame results matrix,
which, at project appraisal, had quantitative indicators that focused more on project
outputs than outcomes for the evaluation of the achievement of project objectives. The
revised logframe retained the original key outputs, which were the number of enterprises
restructured, the number of local consultants trained to assist enterprise restructuring and
the number of managers trained.

At appraisal, the ERP had only one outcome indicator--an increase in labor productivity
by 20 percent. The new logframe added three more quantitative targets to track for the
project's outcome--increases in sales, exports and tax revenues. Furthermore, the revised
framework included a new qualitative indicator for the outcome of the management
internships­the introduction of innovations (processes, technologies, etc.,) in the
enterprises that sent the managers for training.

CERMA conducted three surveys during the project's implementation period­in 2004,
2005 and 2006. All of the surveys collected basic enterprise performance data. In
addition, the surveys for 2005 and 2006 included questions to obtain qualitative
information on the demand for CERMA's services, their impact, and client satisfaction
with them. Annex 5 summarizes the results of all three surveys. The surveys varied in
quality and coverage and there were anomalies in the 2006 survey covering the period
2004-2005. Therefore, the ICR has used the results of the surveys covering the period
2001-2004, which are more consistent, to evaluate the ERP's performance in meeting its
objectives.

The surveys had several uses during the the ERP's implementation. First, the basic
enterprise performance data included key indicators that the Bank was to use in
evaluating the project's progress toward meeting its development objectives (see Section
3.2). Second, the qualitative surveys provided information to CERMA on their clients'
needs (Section 3.6). Third, the surveys provided CERMA with information on trends that
the agency could use in its role as policy advisor. 27

QAG recommendations for impact analysis

In its review of the project's supervision in September 2006, QAG recommended a "full
impact assessment" stating that the supervision team "should be encouraged to undertake
this work as part of the ICR process." QAG defined this assessment as including, in


27Although not specified, the questionnaire presumably was to include the qualitative information on innovations.



                                                     14

addition to indicators on sales, employment and fiscal impact, such indicators as firm-
level productivity and export growth. It seems that somehow in its review of the project,
QAG missed: (a) a productivity indicator in survey data covering the period 2001-2003;
and (b) indicators of export growth in surveys covering the period 2001-2004. Therefore,
given the lack of project funds and institutional capacity for a full impact assessment at
the end of the project, the ICR team reviewed and consolidated available survey data not
only to evaluate the achievement of the project's development objective but also to create
a beneficiary analysis using the qualitative survey information collected along with
enterprise performance data.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Generally the Borrower complied with the safeguard and fiduciary requirements of the
project.28 For a very brief time in 2005, the Bank identified some weaknesses in financial
controls but CERMA followed the Bank's action program to correct them. Overall, the
project's management was extremely good and all of CERMA's business processes had
ISO certification.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Under the Georgia Country Partnership Strategy (CPS), the Bank will continue assisting
the Government with reforms to facilitate the development of the private sector. During
the project's implementation, CERMA built its institutional capacity for advising the
Government on improving the business environment. The current government has
displayed a strong commitment to promoting private sector development. In the last few
years, the Government has streamlined business regulations and licensing requirements.
Overall the Government has decreased licensing, permits and registration related
administrative requirements by 83 percent. Furthermore, the Doing Business in 2007
Report placed Georgia in the category of top performers in terms of business climate
improvements.

Surveys during ERP show that the beneficiary enterprises are likely to be sustainable
given the increases in sales reported for sample companies following restructuring. And
if these companies need further assistance in adjusting to changes in the market
environment, there is a local capacity of over 200 consultants that the project has trained
to continue providing business development assistance. In addition, CERMA's ongoing
training program will add to this capacity. As these enterprises already have seen the
results of the assistance and its cost effectiveness, they are more likely to pay for such
assistance after the project than they were prior to it. The transition strategy for CERMA
is to continue as a non-governmental organization with private, financially sustainable
private spin-offs--CERMA Consulting and CERMA Training.




28In 2000, the Government's tax policy caused a brief period of non-compliance with the project's legal agreements
but the issue was resolved and had not adverse impact on the project's outcome.



                                                      15

The current CPS for Georgia does not include a Bank follow-up operation of ERP.
However, the IFC and BP will be providing assistance to CERMA for a period of two
years in order to establish a business incubator for the development of high-technology
enterprises. CERMA and the Bank conceived the idea for such a facility during the
ERP's implementation. Since the project's completion, CERMA has received a
workspace for a Technology Business Incubator. The workspace is currently under
renovation and should be ready for occupancy shortly.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The first objective of the World Bank Group's CPS for Georgia,29 which covers fiscal
years 2006-09, is generating growth and job creation by removing barriers to private
sector development and improving infrastructure, finance and markets. The objective of
the ERP is therefore very much relevant to the current overall priority.

To some extent, a business culture of minimizing visibility to the Government, ignoring
formal rules and generally resisting transparency of operations still exists. However, as
the CPS notes, Georgia has made substantial progress in establishing an enabling market
oriented economic environment, including trade liberalization, privatization of a
significant number of SOEs, elimination of most subsidies and price controls, land
privatization and the passage of laws supportive to a market economy.

Concerning the IDA program, the Government of Georgia has made a choice to focus on
budget support through a series of poverty reduction strategy operations. The IFC will
take lead in the Bank Group's activities in the private sector through FY 2009. Of
relevance to the ERP, the IFC will consider investments in support of companies engaged
in manufacturing for export markets and the Corporation's technical assistance team also
will help to reduce remaining barriers to business.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project overall has had a substantial impact not only on helping more than 170
private enterprises adjust successfully to a market economy but on creating a substantial
institutional platform to launch further restructuring of enterprises that did not directly
benefit from the project. And, as indicated earlier, through the transfer of skills from
foreign consultants, the ERP has created a domestic capacity of more than 200
consultants to provide restructuring and business development assistance. The project
provided basic training for over 620 managers compared to an estimate of 400 at project
appraisal.30 Furthermore, management internships to more advanced market economies


29International Development Association and the International Finance Corporation, Country Partnership Strategy for
Georgia (Report No.33295-GE), October 12, 2005.

30The ICR has added this figure to give an idea of the overall scope of the project as the output indicators only
considered the number of managers participating in this training and internships abroad, which amounted to only 28
percent of the participants in the basic program.


                                                     16

have brought innovations in technology and business processes that have enhanced
income or reduced costs of enterprises in a variety of sectors. Through CERMA's
outreach activities and enterprise associations, this knowledge is likely to extend beyond
the enterprises directly involved in the project.

Target and actual outputs of components. The main output of the Enterprise
Rehabilitation Component was a group of 17131 enterprises (compared to a target of 100)
with a completed restructuring program and/or business development plan for moving
from loss making to profitable operation. The Management Skills Component had two
outputs. One was the development of a domestic consulting capacity in enterprise
restructuring and business development. The project exceeded its target for this output,
training 220 consultants compared to 200 as planned. The other output was a group of
173 managers (compared to a target of 150) who, after completion of internships in major
enterprise abroad (Germany, Greece, Poland and Slovenia), had developed the capability
to provide effective leadership to their own enterprises in a competitive market of both
domestic and foreign firms.

Linkage of outputs to the objective and its outcome indicators. The project
demonstrated through a results framework of key indicators, the extent to which the two
key outputs of the project's components­restructured/better managed enterprises and
managers with greater know-how--met the project's overall objectives of sustainability
and continued adjustment to market challenges. For enterprises that had completed
restructuring or other operational improvements, the project measured the achievement of
the objective by specified increases in sales, exports, fiscal revenues to the Government
budgets, and labor productivity. For managers completing internships in successful
enterprises abroad, in a similar field as the manager's enterprise in Georgia, the project's
outcome indicator was the introduction of innovations in technical or commercial aspects.

For enterprises receiving restructuring assistance by the end of 2001, a survey of sample
of 40 enterprises covering the first year following this assistance (2001-2002) and a
sample of 30 enterprises for the period 2002-2004, showed much higher achievements for
the key indicators than planned targets (Table 3.1). In particular, during the first year, all
key indicators were more than double their target values.
                         Table 3.1 Target and Actual Indicators of Project Outcome
Category                        Target                      Increase during 2001-           Increase during 2002-
                                                            2002*                           2004**
Sales                           20                          46                              33
Exports                         10                          39                              112
Tax Revenues                    15                          38                              32
Productivity per                15                          40                              NR
employee
*Based on a sample of 40 enterprises.
**Based on a sample of 30 enterprises




31Of this total, 38 enterprises use CERMA's diagnostic services but did not proceed to the restructuring phase.



                                                     17

In addition to the above key indicators, data collected during the survey showed, for the
same group of 40 enterprises, in the first year after assistance from CERMA, a substantial
financial turnaround, from a net loss of 2.1 million gel in 2001 to a profit of 0.7 million
gel in 2002.

The introduction of innovations in the enterprises of the participants in the management
internships was a qualitative outcome indicator without a numerical target. CERMA's
survey on the impact of management training covered technical and management system
changes that the managers introduced. These enterprises of the participants were varied,
covering the food and beverage industry, construction, electronic appliances, heavy
machinery, etc. There are several examples of innovations that are worth noting.

    · A manager of a construction company learned new methods of project design and
       architecture that helped the manager's enterprise in Georgia reduce design time
       by one third. In combination with improved management systems, these
       innovations resulted in a financial gain of US$60,000 for the manager's enterprise
       or about five times the cost of the internship.

    · A manager of a dairy enterprise, after the internship, introduced two new products
       ­butter and yoghurt--and new design and labeling for old products. These
       innovations, combined with improvements in distribution and marketing resulting
       in increased sales of US$70,000 amounting to nearly six times the cost of the
       internship.

    · A general manager of an air condition/heating company, through the internship,
       learned improved techniques for equipment installation and a better management
       system. These innovations, combined with a diversification of suppliers brought
       about costs savings of US$220,000 in the year following the secondment, nearly
       20 times the cost of the internship.

3.3 Efficiency

The PAD gave examples of the types of benefits that historically had resulted from
projects such as ERP. In particular, the PAD made reference to benefits attained in
Moldova. However, the PAD did not set specific measurement ex ante from which to
assess project efficiency ex post. The PAD noted, in general, an increase in value added
as a measure of efficiency. Project data show a 40 percent increase in productivity for one
year alone, which was more than double the target level for the project. In addition, the
PAD mentioned several positive externalities, two of which the project tracked--
increased levels of employment and higher levels of revenues to the Government. The
project's surveys recorded a 39 percent increase in employment over a two-year period
and increases of 32-38 percent in tax revenues.

The ERP also included a cost effectiveness indicator for the management internships
abroad­direct financial gains to the managers' enterprises equivalent to at least the cost
of the training. The project's survey of the results of the internships for a sample of 29
managers showed that the experience resulted in one or more of the following benefits to


                                           18

enterprises of the managers: additional foreign investments, new export deals, new
suppliers, new technologies and improved management systems. The benefits of these
changes to the managers' enterprises ranged from US$15,000 equivalent to US$250,000
per enterprise, compared to a training cost of US$11,500 per manager. For the first
groups of participating enterprises, the benefits amounted to US$1.7 million compared to
a total training cost of US$350,000.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

As indicated above, the project is still highly relevant to the Georgia's priorities for
economic development. The project achieved its overall objective, exceeding all of the
key quantitative indicators. The project demonstrated cost-effectiveness through
increases in productivity, employment and tax revenues. And the institutional
development impact of the project in terms of the evolution of CERMA was substantial.
Using three main criteria for outcome evaluation in the ICR's guidelines--continued
relevance of the project to the country strategy, meeting all objectives with no
shortcomings, and satisfactory evidence of cost efficiency--the ICR's rating of the overall
project outcome is highly satisfactory. However, the ICR's rating also has considered
missed opportunities for a more rigorous impact evaluation to reconcile the varying
quality of the surveys upon which the project assessed the outcome. Furthermore, the
rating also accounted for the fact that the project took twice as long as the original plan.
Considering all of these factors, the ICR has maintained the rating of satisfactory, which
is consistent with that of the project's supervision reports and the supervision evaluation
by QAG.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

Not applicable. There were no other major themes, outcomes, or impacts that are not
discussed elsewhere.

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The ERP had no specific poverty reduction or gender/social development objectives.
However, there are two possible indirect benefits of the project for poverty reduction.
The first is the increased sales and jobs created as a result of restructuring and training
programs of the project. The second indirect benefit is the increase in tax revenues for the
Government, associated with improved sales performance of the companies that the
project assisted. The additional tax revenues generated by the enterprises assisted have
contributed to the pool of funds that the Government could use for poverty reduction.

In terms of social impacts (including gender), while the QAG found the project's
supervision highly satisfactory, its evaluation indicated that supervision missions might
have missed an important opportunity to assess such impacts. However, an assessment of
social impact was not part of the design and the Bank did not provide resources for this
type of analysis. Furthermore, for a proper analysis of such an impact, it would have been
necessary to set up a control group at the beginning of the project. The QAG


                                           19

recommendation came toward the end of the project when essentially it was too late to
design and implement such an evaluation even if funding had been available.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

One of the reasons for making CERMA a non-governmental organization was to provide
it with enough flexibility to shape its activities in response to the needs of the market.
CERMA began as small institution with only donor support, set up primarily to
implement the project. However, due to its own initiative, with Bank support, CERMA
has not only fulfilled its core responsibilities under the project, at times under difficult
conditions, but also has expanded on its own, beyond expectations. Three years prior to
the project's closing data, CERMA had established a self-sustainable private consulting
spin-off. And prior to completion of management training activities, CERMA had a self-
sustainable, local training program in basic language and business skills. Furthermore, it
had merged three executive training modules that it had developed on its own into an
Executive MBA program that currently is in the process of fulfilling the requirements by
the regional accreditation organization for business schools. Furthermore, CERMA,
through its policy advice and diagnostic studies, had contributed to improvements in
Georgia's business environment.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

None.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

A survey of beneficiaries and a stakeholder workshop were not required for this ICR.
However, the ICR has included results of the qualitative aspects of the survey of
enterprises, designed to assess demand for CERMA's services, to give an idea of the
enterprise-level impact of these services and the extent to which CERMA met the clients'
needs (Annex 5). CERMA's surveys conducted during 2005 and 2006 include qualitative
questions on these aspects.

The results for the various categories show very little difference between responses in
2005 and 2006, which CERMA apparently conducted using the same set of 30 enterprises.
A relatively high share of enterprises in the sample stated the main reason for seeking
CERMA's services was to obtain a new quality standard for products, followed by
modernization of accounting systems and the development of a market strategy.

The service with the highest share of respondents in terms of effectiveness was the
modernization of accounting systems followed by establishment of marketing standards
and the definition of a marketing strategy. In terms of impact, the highest percentage of
respondents cited gaining new clients and the second highest response cited technical
upgrading. The willingness to use CERMA's services again was high­at about 93-99
percent of respondents.




                                          20

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to low

The risk to the development outcome is negligible to low. CERMA's training programs
and consulting services are self-sustainable. The part of CERMA that remains a non-
governmental organization has received donor funds for establishing a business incubator.
Moreover, the policy environment for business remains favorable and the Government
has continued to maintain private sector development as a priority.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's strengths in ensuring the quality of ERP at entry were extensive background
work on the sector, project objectives aligned with the country strategy; clearly-defined
components; and the foresight to create the key project institution during the project
preparation stage and test the institution's performance in advance of the project. At the
same time, it is important to note that the PAD did not do justice to the project's
preparatory work and showed evidence of lax control of the quality of reporting­internal
inconsistencies, the lack of a meaningful discussion of issues and strategy, and an
insufficiently clear methodology for determining the cost-effectiveness of the project.
However, these deficiencies ultimately did not have an adverse impact on the project and
were not sufficient to downgrade the satisfactory rating, particularly since, with hindsight,
the project's design proved to be highly effective. The rating also takes into account the
finding of the QAG supervision assessment that the design of implementation
mechanisms was sufficiently robust to allow changes in CERMA's services. This
flexibility was important given Georgia's volatile political and economic context and
difficulties experienced in privatization based on buyouts of owners that seemed to have
difficulty coming to grips with the realities of a market economy.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Highly satisfactory

The ICR rating of ERP's supervision overall concurs with the highly satisfactory rating
given by the QAG. The project's supervision team identified key issues early in the
project's implementation that could have constrained the outcome, particularly the
changing demand for CERMA's services and the burden of the former government's
COC on CERMA's activities, and took swift actions to resolve them. At the MTR, the
supervision team strongly encouraged CERMA to re-evaluate its mission in providing
business development and training services to the private sector, including the provision

                                           21

of new product lines, in particular those required to meet the needs of the growing
number of new private enterprises. This encouragement most likely helped CERMA to
become more innovative during the second half of the project and resulted in multiple
product lines by the end of the project. Finally, the Bank showed flexibility in working
with the Government's changing priorities for private sector development by amending
the DCA to allow the project to assist SOEs slated for privatization.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The ICR has used the six-point harmonized rating scale for evaluating the performance of
the Government and the Implementing Agency separately. Given the mixed rating of
satisfactory for Bank performance in quality- at -entry and highly satisfactory for quality
of supervision, the ICR guidelines suggest an overall rating of satisfactory for Bank
performance.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The satisfactory rating for government performance takes into account the performance
of two successive governments in Georgia. From the period of project appraisal until late
2003, the project took place under the leadership of the former government of President
Shevardnadze. From early 2004 until December 2006, the project took place under the
current government appointed by President Saakasvili. Although, during the period 2000-
2003, Government policies in areas outside the project caused some delays in
implementation, these ultimately did not adversely affect the project's outcome. Both
governments showed a sustained commitment to the ERP throughout its implementation.
The high priority that the current government has given to the improvement of the
business environment has undoubtedly contributed to the improved performance of the
enterprises that have received assistance under the project. Furthermore, the Government,
by seeking CERMA's assistance in policy development and addressing findings of
CERMA's diagnostic studies and surveys, has incorporated a "grass roots" element in its
policy making.




                                          22

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The rating of highly satisfactory for the implementing agency's performance stems from
several factors that resulted in CERMA's management of the project and its development
as an institution beyond expectations at project appraisal. An unusual element of the
project's design, which contributed substantially to its success, was the creation of the
implementing agency, well in advance of the project's approval, with technical assistance
funds. This arrangement allowed CERMA time to develop it capability for the project's
work during the preparation phase. CERMA not only fulfilled its role in managing the
project extremely well but also showed considerable initiative in response to the changing
market environment for its services. As a result, the project met or exceeded all of its
major performance indicators. Furthermore, during the project's implementation period,
CERMA received the BS EN ISO 9001-2000 certificate for quality management and an
award as the Best Georgian Company by a local company rating the performance of
Georgian enterprises. By the end of the project, CERMA consisted of not only the non-
governmental organization but also had private spin-off companies offering business
consulting services and training. Furthermore, CERMA's dissemination activities,
including newspaper articles, television/radio spots, and roundtable discussions, helped to
build a constituency for reform of the business environment. And in recognition of
CERMA's role in the business community, the Government sought CERMA's advice in
policymaking.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The ICR has used the six-point harmonized rating scale for evaluating the performance of
the Government and the Implementing Agency separately. Given the mixed rating of
satisfactory for the Government's performance and highly satisfactory for the
implementing agency's performance, the ICR guidelines suggest an overall rating of
satisfactory for the Borrower's performance.

6. Lessons Learned

Those specific to Georgia

    · Despite a long legacy of central planning and disappointing results of the first
       wave of privatization, the ERP has produced evidence that enterprises willing to
       accept restructuring and learn new techniques from successful enterprises in more
       developed market economies can adapt to market conditions and become
       profitable without an additional capital investment.

    · A non-governmental organization working in conjunction with Government
       policy support can be a major instrument of change in private sector development


                                           23

      and it seems that its continued operation based on a combination of public and
      private financing is most appropriate for the Georgian context. In this model,
      CERMA's private spin-offs are capable of handling the consulting and specialized
      training functions, which are self-sustainable financially. However, new activities,
      such as the planned business incubator, at least initially, will continue to require
      some public funding due to market failures.

   · The dissemination of the experience of managers attending internships and other
      public education tools can provide a powerful demonstration effect but requires
      follow-up and analysis to be useful in CERMA's planning and marketing of
      services. Any future project with donor funds should weigh the costs and benefits
      of this type of additional analysis.

   · CERMA's clients have indicated a high level of satisfaction with the agency's
      services, such that 93-99 percent of sample enterprises polled during the project's
      implementation indicated that they would use CERMA's services again. Surveys
      show that the main reason for purchasing CERMA's services was to obtain new
      quality standards. However, in terms of effectiveness in meeting client needs, the
      responses were highest for assistance in modernizing financial systems. In the
      future, CERMA should look into these findings as part of defining a future
      strategy.

Lessons of general applicability

   · Unprofitable enterprises in transition economies, and probably non-transition
      economies as well, can make dramatic turnarounds in their performance with
      strategically focused restructuring/business planning and/or training using
      existing assets, without any capital investment. The enormous success of both
      restructuring and management internship programs in both Georgia and Moldova
      indicates that the service model may have a general level of applicability.
      Furthermore, if the model is robust enough to work in transition economies,
      particularly those with difficult political and economic environments, it seems
      likely to be useful in market economies of other developing countries as well.

   · A strategically focused, non-governmental agency with varied funding sources
      can be a powerful tool for addressing market failures in enterprise development
      but it should be lean and flexible enough to respond to market changes. If
      CERMA had been a government agency for enterprise assistance it would not
      have had the independence and flexibility in obtaining funding sources and
      modifying its programs. It also would not have been able to respond to changing
      expertise required. By keeping the core of the agency lean, it was able to adapt to
      the needs of the market by contracting out services to specialists as required
      instead of bringing specialists on staff permanently.

   · A results framework for a technical assistance project geared to turnaround
      restructuring and management training should establish a few clear monitoring
      indicators and apply them to a consistent sample of enterprises for a period of


                                          24

      time sufficient to assess if the results are sustainable, including a control group of
      enterprises that do not participate in the project or that participate but do not
      implement the recommended program.

    · Quality control of the content and clarity of PADs may not always be crucial to
      the success of a project but it could be and should not be marginalized. With
      hindsight, the Bank seems to have had deficiencies in its quality control of PADs
      in the late 1990s. Although in the case of the ERP these deficiencies did not
      diminish the project's outcome, they did not promote the Bank's commitment to
      quality reporting and it made the ICR more difficult to prepare.

    · The shift in the Bank's design of objectives and indicators from multiple
      objectives, with few quantitative indicators to broader objectives with detailed
      outcome indicators, provides more flexibility in responding to Government
      priorities. This is particularly important for countries with volatile political and
      economic environments.

    · In addition to the above lessons, the ICR concurs with the systemic lesson from
      QAG, in its review of ERP's supervision, that technical assistance operations are
      most effective when linked to sector and macroeconomic programs. It is hard to
      imagine that the ERP would have been as successful as it was without the
      umbrella of SAC III as well as the strong commitment of the Government to the
      project and recognition of CERMA as an authority to consult on "grass roots"
      issues facing enterprises in Georgia's business environment.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                          25

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                         Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest
             Components                                                                          Percentage of
                                           (USD millions)              Estimate (USD
                                                                          millions)                Appraisal

ENTERPRISE
REHABILITATION                                       13.70                     15.20                   110

BUILD-UP OF
MANAGERIAL/CONSULTING                                  5.20                     3.10                   57
SKILLS


                  Total Baseline Cost                18.90                     18.3                    97

Physical Contingencies                                 0.90                     0.00                  0.00

Price Contingencies                                    1.60                     0.00                  0.00
                 Total Project Costs                 21.40                     18.30                   86
Project Preparation Fund                               0.00                     0.00                   .00
Front-end fee IBRD                                     0.00                     0.00                   .00
         Total Financing Required                    21.40                     18.30                   86



(b) Financing
                                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest

             Source of Funds                      Type of           Estimate          Estimate      Percentage of
                                               Cofinancing            (USD              (USD          Appraisal
                                                                    millions)         millions)
International Development
Association (IDA)                                               15.00              15.00            100

Private Enterprises                                              0.90               0.60              67
Government of Georgia                                            2.60               2.70            108
Total Financing32                                               18.50              18.30            100




32EU TACIS funding for CERMA's set up and some pilot enterprise restructuring assistance began before the project
commencement and for a while ran parallel to it. The agency provided US$ 1.8 million for these activities compared to
an original estimate of US$ 2.9 million. However, this was parallel financing and therefore the annex does not include
this contribution.




                                                      26

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component         Appraisal Estimate                         Actual/ICR Estimate
Enterprise        Domestic consulting capacity in enterprise Domestic consulting capacity in
Rehabilitation    restructuring and market economy know-     enterprise restructuring and market
                  how evidenced by:                          economy know-how evidenced by:

                  --200 consultants trained                  --220 consultants trained
                  --100 enterprises restructured             --171 enterprises restructured
                  --CERMA fully staffed, operational, and    --CERMA fully staffed, operational
                  financially self sustainable.              and financially self sustainable.



Managerial and    Managers capable of leading enterprises    Managers capable of leading
Consulting Skills that could compete with domestic and       enterprises that could compete with
                  FSU firms evidenced by:                    domestic and FSU firms evidenced
                                                             by:

                  --150 managers completing secondment       --173 managers completing
                  with leading foreign companies in their    secondment with leading companies
                  field.                                     in their field.

                  --at least a 20 percent increase in value  The revised results framework
                  added per employee in company managed      dropped this value added as an
                  by the participant two years after the     output indicator for the training
                  manager's secondment abroad.               component and made it an outcome
                                                             indicator.




                                           27

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Economic Analysis
Key assumptions:

     1.   No alternative investments in the industrial sector suitable for Bank financing.
     2.   The small and medium enterprises participating in the project would not be suitable for investment
          without the readjustment that the project offered.

Costs                   Appraisal Estimate                                Actual/ICR Estimate
                        US$21.4 million over a five year period           US$18.3 million
Benefits
Restructuring           Increased valued added in the participating       40 percent increase in productivity.*
Component               enterprises compared to a baseline of $300-
                        400 per employee.
                        No specific target set.



                        Positive externalities, such as higher levels     Enterprise surveys have shown the
                        of employment, personal income, increased         following benefits:
                        in bankable projects and higher tax
                        revenues for the Government.                          · 39 percent increase in
                        No specific targets set.                                   employment*

                                                                              · 32 -38 percent increase in
                                                                                   taxes paid to the State
                                                                                   Budget.*

Management/Consul       No direct measurement given.                      Not applicable.
ting Skills
Component
Financial analysis
Costs/Benefits          The PAD provided no financial analysis of         An impact survey of participants
                        costs/benefits.                                   from 29 companies in secondments
                                                                          with leading firms showed that
                                                                          internship costs of about
                                                                          US$350,000 a conservative estimate
                                                                          of the financial benefits amounts to
                                                                          about US$ 1.7 million.
*Figures for the period 2001-2002 based on a 2003 survey of 44 enterprises that had competed
restructuring programs by the end of 2001 with CERMA's assistance.




                                                    28

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

            Names                       Title                 Unit      Responsibility/
                                                                           Specialty
Lending

Vladimir-Goran Kreacic   Senior Enterprise Reform Specialist ECSPF    Program Team
                                                                      Leader

Gregory Jedrzejczak      Senior Private Sector Development            Enterprise &
                         Specialist                         ECSPF     Financial Reform
Snezana Mitrovic/Seyoum
Solomon                  Procurement specialists            ECSPS     Procurement

Anna Staszewicz          Financial Analyst/Financial                  Financial
                         Management Officer                 ECSPS     Management
Vesna Petrovic           Operations Analyst                  ECSPF    Supervision
Irina Kichigina          Country Lawyer                     LEGEC Legal
Paola Scalabrin          Consultant                         ECSPF     Supervision
Essen Ulgenerk           Banking Specialist                 ECSPF     Banking
Eka Vashakmadze          Economist                          ECSPE     Economist
Nicholay Chistaykov      Disbursement Officer               LOA       Disbursement
Manuel F. Santiago       Team Assistant                     ECSPF     Supervision
Supervision/ICR

Irina Astrakhan          Senior Private Sector Development
                         Specialist                         ECSPF    Task Team Leader

Matthew Mittchell        Consultant                         ECSPF    Task Team Leader
Tatyana Kandelaki        Financial Specialist               ECSPF    M&E, Supervision
Ruth Neyens              Consultant                         OPD-His Enterprise Reform
Karl Skansing            Consultant                         ECSPS    Procurement

Arman Vatyan             Senior Financial Management                 Financial
                         Specialist                         ECSPS    Management
Marjorie Mpundu          Consultant                         LEGEC Legal

Yevgeny N. Kuznetsov     Senior Economist                   WBIHD    Reform &
                                                                     Restructuring

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks       USD Thousands (including
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY95                                                                   8.81
   FY96                                                                143.92
   FY97                                                                142.68
   FY98                                                                  68.48
   FY99                                                                   3.96
   FY00                                       2                           0.00
   FY01                                                                   4.52
   FY02                                       1                           0.02
   FY03                                                                   0.00

                                        29

 FY04                                  0.00
 FY05                                  0.00
 FY06                                  0.00
                   Total:       3    372.39
Supervision/ICR
 FY95                                  0.00
 FY96                                  0.00
 FY97                                  0.00
 FY98                                 36.10
 FY99                                 69.23
 FY00                          28     43.48
 FY01                          16     93.99
 FY02                          13     89.33
 FY03                          23     88.07
 FY04                          29     82.73
 FY05                          24     71.87
 FY06                          25     41.70
 FY07                          12      0.00
                   Total:     170    616.50




                            30

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey

The ICR did not require a beneficiary survey. However, CERMA's enterprise surveys for
the last two years of the project included yes/no survey questions to find out the reasons for
purchasing CERMA's services; the effectiveness of the services in fulfilling client needs;
the areas where services had the greatest impact and whether the respondents would use
CERMA's services again. After completion of the surveys, CERMA prepared summary
reports showing the top three or four categories that had the highest percentage share of
"yes" responses. Table 5.1 summarizes the results for the surveys conducted in 2005 and
2006. The responses are based on in-person 30 minute interviews with 30 enterprises that
had received CERMA's assistance in restructuring.

The results for the various categories show very little difference between responses in 2005
and 2006, which apparently were conducted using the same set of 30 enterprises. The main
reason cited for seeking CERMA's services was to obtain a new quality standard for
products, followed by modernization of accounting systems and development of a market
strategy. The service with the highest share of respondents in terms of effectiveness was
the modernization of accounting systems followed by establishment of establishing
marketing standards and defining a market strategy. In terms of impact, the highest
percentage of respondents cited gaining new clients followed by the implementation of
technical upgrading. The willingness to use CERMA's services again ways high, about 93-
99 percent of respondents.

     Table 5.1 Results of the Survey on the Demand for and Usefulness of CERMA's Assistance
Survey Category                             2005 Survey                     2006 Survey
(Selected top categories reported     ( percent of respondents)        (percent of respondents)
based on response rate)
Reason for purchasing services
Obtain new quality standards      77                              80

Modernize accounting systems      70                              70

Develop a marketing strategy      60                              53
Enter new markets                 60                              60
Effectiveness of CERMA
Services in Fulfilling Needs

Modernize financial systems       70                              73
Establish marketing standards     57                              63
Define market strategy            53                              50
Impact of CERMA Services on
Operations
Set up a new distribution system  40                              43
Established a new management      70                              67
system
Improved quality of products      63                              67
Gained new clients                80                              83
Obtained new/stable suppliers     53                              53
Implemented technical upgrading   64                              71
Willingness to cooperate with     99                              93
CERMA again
Source: CERMA

                                                31

Enterprise Performance Indicators

All three reports contain data on three of the four key indicators--sales, exports and taxes
paid. However, only the report for 2004 provides an indicator for productivity increase. All
three reports also contain indicators not included in the results matrix for the project.33 In
addition, all three reports show a substantial increase in sales and net income. However, the
report for 2006 contains the unexplained anomaly of declines in exports, employment and
production range not at all consistent with substantial increases in income that year and the
correlation between income and these other indicators in previous years. Therefore for the
purpose of project's data sheet the ICR has left out the questionable data for the period
2004 to 2005 and selected two periods for reporting on the indicators.

The first period for 2001-2002 (2004 Survey), shows, for 40 enterprises, the dramatic
changes in performance only a year after completing restructuring/business development
with CERMA's assistance. The second period 2002-2004, covers 30 industries including
some of the enterprises in the first period and provides an indicator of sustained
performance. As Section 3.2 illustrates the actual indicators for both periods were
substantially higher than the target indicators.

        Table 3.1: Summary of Key Performance Data from the Project's Enterprise Surveys
Category                             2004 Survey                   2005 Survey    2006 Survey
Period                 2001-2002              2001-2003          2002-2004      2004-2005
No. of years           2                      3                  2              1
No. of Responses       40                     40                 30             30
Percent Increase
in:
Sales/Revenues                                63                 33             45
                       46
Net income                                    NA                 107            173
(Profit/Loss)
Production             37                     60                 NR             NR
Volume
Employment             NR                     NR                 39             -3
Employee               40                     54                 NR             NR
Productivity
Exports                39                     112                109            -4
Product Range          NR                     NR                 38             -5
(No. of Products)
Taxes to the State     38                     51                 32             13
Notes: NR = Not Reported
Source: CERMA's results monitoring reports




33These include production volume, product range and employment.


                                                      32

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable.




                                  33

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                 34

35

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                   36

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Preparation and Appraisal

Main project documents

Project Appraisal Document (PAD) on a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR11 Million
Equivalent to Georgia for an Enterprise Rehabilitation Project, November 25, 1998.

Development Credit Agreement (Enterprise Rehabilitation Project) between Georgia and
the International Development Association, January 27, 1999.

Selected other documents (in chronological order)

Project Concept Document­Georgia Enterprise Rehabilitation Project, May 22, 1997.

Back-to-Office Report for a mission of June 16-July 1, 1997.

CERMA/World Bank presentation on a review of the industrial enterprise sector, Tbilisi,
November 23, 1997.

Restructuring of Manufacturing Firms in Georgia: Four Case Studies and a Survey, by
Simeon Djankov and Vladimir -Goran Kreacic, January 11, 1998.

Survey of Constraints to Private Business in Georgia, by Simeon Djankov and Vladimir
Kreacic ( undated but presented with the above document).

Aide Memoire for a mission of February 3-19, 1998.

Aide Memoire for a mission of May 12-24, 1998.

Minutes/Summary of the Decision Review Meeting , June 11, 1998.

Report and Recommendation of the President of the International Development
Association to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Third Structural Adjustment Credit in
the Amount of SDR44.3 Million (US$60 Million Equivalent) to Georgia, June 4,

Project Supervision

Project Status Reports (PSRs) and Implementation Status Reports (ISRs)
PSRs
No.               Date
1                 July 7, 1999
2                 December 29, 1999
3                 June 21, 2000
4                 June 27, 2000
5                 December 21, 2000
6                 June 18, 2001
7                 December 26, 2001

                                          37

8                       June 28, 2002
9                       December 27, 2002
10                      June 23, 2003
11                      December 19, 2003
12                      June 18, 200434
13                      June 14, 2004
ISRs
14                      June 15, 2005
15                      December 16, 2005

Project Surveys

Summary Results of the Marshall Plan Internships (Intermediate Report), December 15,
2002.

Results of a survey covering the performance a sample of CERMA's client companies for
the years 2001, 2002, and 2003.

Results of a survey covering the performance of a sample of CERMA's client companies
and their demand for CERMA's services for the years for 2004 and 2004.

Results of a survey covering the performance of a sample CERMA's client companies and
their demand for CERMA's services for the years for 2004 and 2005.

Selected other documents (in chronological order)

Letter on taxation under World Bank projects, January 1, 2000.

Memo on taxation problems faced by CERMA, September 8, 2000.

Aide memoire for a supervision mission from July 30 to August 6, 2001 (Mid-Term
Review).

Memo on the justification for a closing date extension, May 20, 2002.

Report on the meeting of CERMA's Supervisory Council to consider lowering the
enterprise share of co-payment for CERMA's services, September 25, 2002.

Amendment to the Project Agreement to lower the counterpart contribution to CERMA's
services, September 25, 2003.

Back-to-office report/aide memoire for a supervision mission of September 23 to October 2,
2003.

Back-to-office report/aide memoire for a supervision mission of April 3-10, 2004.



34This date for report number 14 seems to be in error and should be December 2004.


                                                        38

Undated report on CERMA's public awareness activities/media promotion for the period
1997 to April 2004.

Consultant memo on key elements to be included in the privatization process for state-
owned enterprises, January 7, 2005.

Georgia Enterprise Rehabilitation Project: Proposed Amendment to the Development
Credit Agreement, June 9, 2005.

Georgia Enterprise Rehabilitation Project: Financial Management Report, September 2005.

Financial management review checklist, September 26-28, 2005

Aide memoire for a supervision mission of October 3-13, 2005.

Aide memoire for a supervision mission in June 2006.

Georgia Enterprise Rehabilitation Project: Financial Management Supervision Follow-Up
Report, August 31, 2006.

Georgia Enterprise Rehabilitation Project, Report of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG),
for the Seventh Quality of Supervision Assessment, November 3, 2006.

CERMA report on the pre-privatization program for state-owned enterprises 2006.

CERMA report on the results of the assessment work for 12 innovation enterprises, 2006.

Georgia Partnership Strategy Report for the period 2006 to 2009.




                                           39

