Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18390-GE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
GEORGIA
FOR AN
ENTERPRISE REHABILITATION PROJECT
11/25/98
Private Sector and Financial Development
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 15, 1998)
Currency Unit = Lari (GEL)
GEL 1 = US$ 0.7
US$1 = GEL1.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS - Country Assistance Strategy
CERMA - Center for Enterprise Restructuring
and Management Assistance
ERP - Enterprise Rehabilitation Project
FSU - Former Soviet Union
GOG - Government of Georgia
IBRD - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA - International Development Agency
IMF - International Monetary Fund
MOF - Ministry of Finance
MOI - Ministry of Industry
PIU - Project Implementation Unit
PHRD - Policy and Human Resource Development
PPR - Post-Privatization Restructuring
SAC - Structural Adjustment Credit
SME - Small and Medium-Sized Enterprise
SOE - State-Owned Enterprise
SRO - Self-Regulating Organization
|        ~~~Vice President:                    Johannes Linn
:       ~~~Country Director:                   Judy O'Connor
Sector Director/Leader:           Lajos Bokros / Yasuo Izumni
Project Team Leader:                  Vladimir Kreacic



Georgia
Enterprise Rehabilitation Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ....................................2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ..............................................,,,.2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ....................                      ..........................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ................................3
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components ..............................................3
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ..................................... 4
3. Benefits and target population ..............................................4
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ........................                  ......................5
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .............................................6
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies ..............                      7
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ............................................7
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ...................................................7
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ....................................................... 8
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic ......................................................   8
2. Financial ......................................................8
3. Technical .......................................................8
4. Institutional ......................................................8
5. Social ......................................................9
6. Environmental assessment .......................................................9
7. Participatory approach ......................................................                                  9
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability ......................................................                                        10
2. Critical risks ...................................................... 10
3. Possible controversial aspects ...................................................... 11
iii



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions ..........................................   .            11
2. Other conditions.                                                                   I 
H. Readiness for Implementation .                                                              11
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .12
Annexes
Annex 1.    Project Design Summary ................................ 13
Annex 2.        Detailed Project Description ...............................                   15
Annex 3.        Estimated Project Costs ...............................                       2 1
Annex 4.        Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary ...............................           23
Annex 5.        Financial Summary                      ............................... 25
Annex 6.        Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ............        ................... 27
Table A 1 Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements.                                      3 1
Table A 2 Consultant Selection Arrangements .32
Table B    Procurement Schedule ............................. 33
Table C    Procurement Information ............................. 34
Table D    Allocation of Loan Proceeds ............................. 35
Table E    Disbursement Schedule ............................. 36
Annex 7.        Project Processing Budget and Schedule ........... ..................          37
Annex 8.        Documents in Project File .............................                       39
Annex 9.        Statement of Loans and Credits ............................. 41
Annex 9a.       Statement of Held and Disbursed Portfolio ............................. 43
Annex. 10.      Country at a Glance ............................. 45
Map
iv



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Project Appraisal Document
Georgia
Enterprise Rehabilitation Project
Date: 11/25/98                                  Project Team Leader: Vladimir-Goran Kreacic
Country Director: Judy O'Connor                 Sector Director/Leader: L. Bokros/L. Jeurling, ECSPF
Project ID: GE-PE 8416                          Program Objective Category: Private Sector Development
Sector: PSD
Lending Instrument: Credit                      Program of Targeted Intervention:      11   Yes    No [X]
Project Financing Data                       I] Loan      IX I Credit       II Guarantee    [H  Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: SDRI I millionJUS$15 million
Proposed terms:                                 I  Multicurrency      [XI Single currency, SDR
Grace period (years): 10          [    Standard Variable  [I   Fixed           I ]    LIBOR-
based
Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.50% on undisbursed credit balance, beginning 60 days after signing less any waiver
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                Local              Foreign         Total
Government                                                        2.6                                 2.6
IDA                                                               4.6                10.4            15.0
Enterprises                                                       0.9                                 0.9
EU TACIS                                                          0.7                 2.2             2.9
Total           8.8                12.6             21.4
Borrower: Government of Georgia
Responsible agency: Ministry of Finance
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):            1999         2000        2001        2002       2003
Annual      2.3           4.9         3.4         2.6        1.8
Cumulative      2.3          7.2         10.6        13.2       15.0
Project implementation period: January 1999 - June 2003
Expected effectiveness date: January 15, 1999   Expected closing date: December 31, 2003
1



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
Development Objectives                         Key Performance Indicators
Improve efficiency of private and privatized   Successful implementation of 100 restructuring
enterprises, directly and through a demonstration  projects by the end of the Project confirmed
effect.                                        periodically by the Bank supervision and studies.
Dissemination of success stories and restructuring
know-how to at least 300 enterprises.
Develop managerial capacity for continuous    Training of 150 managers in leading enterprises
enterprise adjustment in response to market signals.  abroad - increase of at least 20% in value-
added/employee two years after secondment.
On-the-job training of 200 Georgian restructuring
consultants.
Strengthen institutional capacity to facilitate reform   Building skills and resources in executing, non-
and build constituency and basis for constant  governmental agency (CERMA) according to a
private sector development (PSD) through       CERMA Development Plan agreed with the Bank.
publicationLs and public awareness campaign.  Growing public approval for enterprise reforms
confirmed by independent public opinion analysis.
Support creation of associations of enterprise  Functioning self-regulating organizations (SROs) of
consultants and private enterprise managers.   enterprise consultants and private enterprise
managers.
Support cnration of new small private businesses by  Increasing contribution of new small and medium-
releasing assets from restructured privatized  sized enterprises (SMEs) to employment, GDP, and
companies                                      the budget.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 17000-GE        Date of latest CAS discussion: October 21, 1997
The CAS priority, immediately after strengthening Georgia's public finance, is to help deepen and diversify its
sources of growth by removing existing barriers to private sector development. These barriers are mainly (i) a
poor response by privatized companies to the new market challenges, (ii) an over-restrictive and discretionary
regulatory environment, which unnecessarily increases entry and functioring costs for new businesses, and (iii)
increasingly unfavorable public opinion, and weak institutional support to market economy mechanisms.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Issues: Georgia is one of the few FSU countries with reportedly very high level of GDP growth. However, the
current economic recovery started from a very low base and has been led primarily by the narrowly focused
emerging private sector in the agriculture, agro-processing and service sectors. The manufacturing sector,
mainly constituted by privatized state-owned enterprises (SOEs), has continued its sharp contraction and is now
operating at a small fraction of its pre-transition levels. The new owners - usually incumbent managers - after
the initial employment reductions, appear to be doing very little in response to the new challenges of market
economy. The common belief among managers is that, with the help of the govenmment, they will be able to go
back to the old volumes and profiles of production, without having to face a major adjustment. As we leamed
from pilot cases, this passive attitude changes when managers are convinced to adopt a more flexible and pro-
active strategy - based on new products and markets, but using existing equipment, materials and work-force.
2



Strategy: Sustainable growth requires systemic and coordinated actions across the whole spectrum of' issues:
(i) continuation of fiscal discipline and further hardening of budget constraint (tax collection); (ii) completion of
privatization and post-privatization adjustment of enterprises to new market conditions; (iii) strengthening of
legal and institutional frameworks so to be conducive to progressive restructuring (including liquidation) and
protection of owners' and creditors' rights, (iv) development of managerial skills as well as of those of
professional local consultants; and (v) development of corporate governance capacity of new owners, also with
the establishment of secondary equity markets; (vi) development of non-governmental forces and institutions
supporting market economy values and techniques (e.g., professional and business SROs).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Issues to be addressed: (1) Enterprise adjustment to market conditions, through initial non-investment
restructuring (downsizing and spinning off) and introduction of "continuous improvement" principles. (2)
Building of local business consulting and institutional capacity for continued improvement of both privatized
enterprises and new SMEs beyond Project's life.
Strategic Choices: (i) Public co-financing of initial restructuring (Enterprise Rehabilitation Project (E]RP)
Credit, Government of Georgia (GOG) counterpart funds, donors' funding); (ii) Publicly supported investment
in skill acquisition (investment in human capital); and (iii) Strong demonstration effect and dissemination
throughout successful pilot restructuring cases, with strong emphasis on the replication opportunities for other
enterprises.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component               Category    Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-        % of
Contingencies   Total  financing    Bank-
____     (US$M)               (US$MM   financing
Enterprise Rehabilitation                TA          15.3      72        10.0        67
Support to non-investment
restructuring of new private and
privatized enterprises, initially led by
foreign consultants with a proven track
record from transition economies,
providing extensive on-the-job training
for Georgian consultants.
Buildup ofManagerial and Consulting      TA           6.1      28         5.0        33
Skills
Organization and co-financing of
secondment for Georgian managers and
consultants in leading foreign
enterprises, and support to establishing
professional and business SROs
(including support to CERMA).
Total        21.4     100.0      15.0       100.0
3



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
A variety of'policies were adopted by the Government of Georgia (GOG) over the last few years in support of
private sector development and enterprise restructuring. These policies often lacked the institutions and
resources necessary for their implementation. In addition, they were not always internally consistent, nor took
into account all implied long-term consequences and negative externalities. The macroeconomic stability
remains the only component of the business environment that is friendly to entrepreneurs. The entry of new
firms remains hindered by red tape and high informal costs of registration and licensing. Firms operate in an
uncertain environment, characterized by high risks, little protection from the court system and arbitrary and non-
transparent behavior of officials (tax, customs, licensing), all of which is further increasing already high
transaction costs (due to irregular supply of energy, high telecommunication costs and rapidly deteriorating
transport infrastructure).
One of the functions of the Project is to provide skills, institutional capabilities and international comparators
for the private sector development policy of the Government of Georgia (GOG). The Project directly supports
the development of non-governmental agencies and organizations that will facilitate enterprise rehabilitation and
the growth of core business support services. In addition, the Project strengthens the institutional changes
underway in the government agencies devoted to regulation and/or support of the industrial sector (such as
Ministry of Economy and Tax Authorities). The Project's pilot restructuring cases will help to identify
inconsistencies in the regulatory system and indicate possible remedies in the legal proceedings for bankruptcy
restructuring and liquidation cases.
One of the institution-building priorities for the first year of the Project implementation will be to buildup a
sufficient pipeline of enterprises - candidates for restructuring and for selection of managers participating in the
secondments. This will require a coordinated effort of President's Administration, MOF, the Statistical Office,
the Tax Administration, MOI, to: (1) identify a broad pool of candidates and provide CERMA with updated
information about them; (2) establish dialogue with owners and managers of the enterprises in order to convince
them to participate in the Project; (3) evaluate the progress against the ERP schedule and undertake
administrative and political measures if necessary. The Project Team has already spent a considerable amount
of time on coordinating government's efforts in this area and will continue to do so. Further progress in
institution- building in this area will require a consistent and orchestrated message to be passed on at all levels
of the Bank's dialogue with the GOG.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits.
* Broadened base for economic growth, more efficient resource allocation, and job creation.
*  Increased fiscal revenues to central and local budgets.
*  Identification and removal of impediments to new private businesses.
Target Population
*  Existing and future employees of restructured (rehabilitated) enterprises.
*  Local pool of potential consultants and managers exposed to new market realities.
*  Current owners and managers of privatized enterprises ready to undertake restructuring.
*  New and existing entrepreneurs (SMEs) looking for access to productive assets and the know-how to
operate in the new business environment.
*  Population-at-large via increased fiscal revenues and, therefore, social spending availability.
4



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
Implementation period: The project will be implemented over a period of five years (1999 - 2003) in
accordance with the Project Implementation Plan.
Executing Agencies: The first priority during Project preparation was to sponsor a non-governmental
(but Government supported) implementation agency - the Center for Enterprise Restructuring and Management
Assistance (CERMA). CERMA was established on June 7, 1997 as a non-governmentaUnon-profit independent
legal entity by Presidential Decree, with the support of EU (TACIS) and in close collaboration with the World
Bank Enterprise Rehabilitation Project team. CERMA has been actively carrying out actions to achieve
development objectives during project preparation, and it is expected to continue its function long after the
Project will be completed. The Project will also initiate and support the establishment and development of
professional and business SROs. The SROs should be able to support their operations from fees and provided
services to members and others.
Policy oversight (policy, guidance, etc.) The Presidential Decree appointed a Director of the Agency
and a Supervisory Board. The CERMA Board, composed of high level govermment officials and business
representatives, will approve CERMA's policies and procedures, annual budgets and work plans, quarterly and
annual reports and appoint an independent auditor.
Project Coordination: The Borrower will designate at the Ministry of Finance (MOF) a Project
Coordinator to monitor overall project implementation. The Project will strengthen the institutional capacity of
CERMA, which will also implement the project. The CERMA Board will relinquish execution of day-to-day
operations to CERMA headed by its Director. It will be manned by skilled professionals recruited competitively
and employed on annual, renewable contracts financed from proceeds of the credit. There will be a strong
emphasis on CERMA's supervision to ensure that its activities conforn to the Credit agreements. Program
supervision by the International Development Association (IDA) staff is therefore expected to be above regional
averages, particularly at the early stage of project implementation. A mid-term review, scheduled for two years
after implementation - tentatively scheduled for June 2001 - will review the Project's success in meeting its
objectives and mid-course adjustments will be made as appropriate.
Financial Management: The Borrower and CERMA will be responsible for maintaining an adequate
financial management system including accounting, financial reporting and auditing. CERMA is adequately
staffed with two qualified accounting specialists. CERMA has developed an accounting system that has been
assessed as acceptable to the Bank The projectfinancial management system, including accounting,
financial reporting and auditing arrangements, will be established prior to project effectiveness (Section
G I b).
Accounting Information submitted to the IDA by CERMA would comply with international accounting
standards. Cash accounting, used by the project for its own financial management purposes, may be used for
project accounting. Project accounts would be maintained by CERMA separately from any other existing
accounts. CERMA, having the responsibility for orderly and efficient recording and safeguarding of the project
assets and resources would: (a) ensure accountability for project funds; (b) maintain records of the sources of
funds, and the relevant accounts, broken down into the various types of expenditure for the project; (c) maintain
intemal controls to ensure that financial records are reliable, complete and provided on a timely basis; (d) report
on the use of funds; (e) facilitate verification of these reports by independent auditors; and (f) provide
information, as required, to the IDA.
5



Financial Reporting. During project implementation, CERMA would submit on a semi-annual basis
Project Financial Management Reports in the fornat agreed with IDA. The Report would include: (i) Summary
of Sources and Uses of Funds Report by project categories of expenditures, showing the IDA credit,
Government contribution, and funds from other donors separately in currency as determined by project design;
(ii) Sumiairy of Expenditures by project components, for the current fiscal year and accumulated to date; (iii)
Summary of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) by individual application reference number and amount'; (iv)
Special Account Statement providing reconciliation of amounts in the Special Account; (v) Expenditures Report
by disbursement category providing details of eligible project expenditures during the current quarter and next
quarter; (vi) Balance Sheet showing Accumulated Fund of the Project, bank balances, other assets of the project,
and project liabilities.
Financial Audit. CERMA will be responsible, on behalf of the Borrower, for providing to IDA, within
6 months at: the end of each CERMA fiscal year (including the fiscal year of the final IDA disbursement) the
financial audits of the Project that are acceptable to the IDA. CERMA will have the required Financial
Statements for each year audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA in accordance with standards that
are acceptable to the IDA2. The auditor would be appointed in sufficient time to carry out its responsibilities,
including: (a) a review of the financial management systems at the beginning of project implementation; and (b)
periodical reviews of the project financial management systems thereafter. An audit of financial statements
would include: (a) an assessment of the adequacy of accounting and internal control systems to monitor
expenditures and other financial transactions and ensure safeguarding of project-financed assets; (b) a
determination whether CERMA has maintained adequate documentation of all relevant transactions; and
verification that expenditures submitted to IDA are eligible for financing under the project, and identification of
any ineligible expenditures. The use of a special account (SA) and statements of expenditures (SOEs) would be
addressed separately in the auditor's opinion. The IDA-required audits would not cover possible donor-funded
activities, even if supervised by the IDA.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The main alternative would be to focus only on improving the regulatory and macroeconomic framework and let
the private sector develop at its "natural" pace and incentives. This approach has been rejected based on
growing body of evidence from other transition economies, which confirm market inefficiency in inducing a
spontaneous restructuring of mass privatized enterprises within a politically and economically acceptable time-
frame. The reasons are complex and not fully yet understood, but one of the main ones is the tremendous gap
existing between policy-makers' and managers central-planning background, and the challenges and needs of the
open-market economy. In Georgia, as in all FSU states, one can observe a proliferation of "good" policy
measures targeted at the improvement of economic performance and, at the same time, a poor understanding of
these measures and a consequent lack of capacity at the implementation stage.
Although Greorgian society sees a private market economy as the only alternative to the old state-controlled
system, it is increasingly skeptical about the outcomes of privatization and perceives privatization as a cause of
unemployment and social polarization. The reported macro-economic growth does not translate into a broad
public "perception" of improvement. Observed responses are a growing parallel economy, asset stripping by
SOEs' managers, and growing apathy and disengagement among large segments of the population.
The total withdrawals under the SOE procedure should be added to expenditures financed by the IDA under
regular procedures, which together would be equal to total expenditures financed by the IDA shown in
Surnmary of Expenditures.
2      The International Standards on Auditing, published annually by the International Federation of Accountants
and widely adopted by the accounting profession, is an example of standards on auditing that are acceptable to
the IDA.
6



Two other options tried in the past by the Bank, and rejected as alternatives for the Project, are: (i) massive
court-led bankruptcy (liquidation and Chapter XI-style rehabilitation), due to the weakness of the judiciary; and
(ii) Enterprise Isolation Programs (such as in Bulgaria and Romania), due to the significant risk of re-institution
of Government subsidies, the foreseen numerous turf battles among branch Ministries, and - what is the most
important - only negligible improvements, in a limited number of cases, of enterprise efficiency and resource
allocation.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                Project            Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation Progress     Development
(IP)             Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
PPR                          Moldova PSD I                    S                      S
Building Managers' Skills    Moldova PSD II                   S                      S
Other development agencies
PPR                          EU (TACIS) Ukraine                             _       _-
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
A vital pre-condition to Project sustainability is a strong Government commitment to: (i) undertake the socially
painful and politically difficult restructuring measures, (ii) resist pressures by the industrial lobby to soften
budget constraint, (iii) strongly endorse the need for public investment in the market infrastructures and human
skills. Owners and managers of participating enterprises must prove in advance their readiness to undertake
restructuring measures and to cooperate with external specialists. At the operational level, the ability of local
specialists to internalize and apply the restructuring skills learned from foreign consultants and then deliver
quality services at local prices, will also be critical in ensuring the sustainability of the Project's development
objectives. The proposed Enterprise Rehabilitation Project will therefore focus on training Georgian consultants
and managers, and on widely disseminating the results achieved during Project preparation and implementation,
thereby stimulating demand for restructuring and management services on the ground and, with it, a sustainable
private sector growth.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
T'he Government's commitment to the Project objectives and instruments is testified by (i) its willingness to
establish an independent CERMA, with a Director acceptable both to Georgian counterparts and the Bank; (ii)
its request, approved by the Bank, for a PPF to finance the pilot restructuring operations and training of the first
batch of 30 Georgian consultants; (iii) its active support of CERMA activities in the selection of enterprises-
candidates for pilot restructuring cases; (iv) its agreement in having CERMA TOR revised along World Bank's
suggestions, to ensure compatibility with ERP objectives.
7



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank offers Georgia a key support by transferring best practices from similar projects successfully carried
out in other transition economies (e.g., Moldova, Lithuania, Poland, and Slovenia). A strong synergy effect also
exists between the Project's objectives and those of existing and new adjustment operations. This Project's
technical assistance contents (TA) an] the conditionalities of the adjustment operations will provide a strong and
consistent support to the reformist part of the Government, to undertake courageous policies and sustainable
practices aLimed at deepening and diversifying the country's sources of growth. Finally, the Project will provide
valuable BEank leadership and consolidation for a variety of donor activities in the country (such as the
accounting system reform and capital markets development).
E: Summary Project Analysis
(Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economnic (supported by Annex 4):
Cost Efficiency Analysis
Enterprise Rehabilitation (Restructuring): Experience from other projects (e.g. Moldova First Private Sector
Development Project) shows that restructuring not only increases value added per employee in affected
companies by an average 30 percent, but in the process it also gives rise to a number of positive externalities:
higher levels of employment and personal income, larger number of bankable projects, larger investment
inflows, increased tax revenues.
Buildup ojfManagement and Consulting Skills: Investment in human capital, although proven to be beneficial
in the long run, is difficult to be directly measured. As the proposed approach is practically oriented on
apprenticeship, tangible results should be available much faster than in the case of traditional, class-based
theoretical training. The program has its historical basis in the highly successful training component of the
Marshal Pllan (see Annex 2).
2. Financial: There is no significant difference between the economic and financial project analysis, as Georgia
is advanced in price liberalization.
Fiscal impact: On the expenditure side, the Government would absorb the non-reimbursable costs of the
project. The remaining costs covered by the Government would be in-kind contribution of already existing
capacities l(e.g. office space) with no budgetary impact. On the revenue side, the Government may expect higher
tax revenues - both current and from arrears. Experiences from other countries show that the very threat of
liquidating the enterprises that do not undertake restructuring measures encourages payments of overdue taxes.
T]he release of unused firm assets to new, small private businesses will also become a source of additional fiscal
revenues.
3. Technical: The Project has no technical components.
4. Institutional - Project management: The proposed project focuses on using the newly created institution,
CERMA, through which the Project components will be implemented. CERMA's activities and overall project
preparation and implementation are fully supported by the President's Office. Initially totally financed by EU
(TACIS), CERMA is now partly financed by the PPF and a Japanese Policy and Human Resource Development
(PHRD) Grant.
8



CERMA handles a multitude of functions related to originating and developing professional business consulting
skills in Georgia and to carrying out enterprise restructuring cases. In the relatively short period of 9 months,
CERMA was able to hire and train 25 domestic consultants, initiate 10 restructuring cases, and establish basic
consulting best practices. Some of pilot restructuring cases have been already successfully concluded and
function as powerful "living proof' cases that Georgian enterprises may become competitive and attract new
investments. To further develop a non-governmental institutional basis for enterprise restructuring, the Project
will support the development of professional self-regulating organizations (SROs) of enterprise consultants and
private business managers. The Project objective in this area is to support the bottom-up introduction of best
practices and lobbying mechanisms for a successful continuous adjustment to competitive markets. The Project
has been extensively discussed with the members of Parliament and enjoys the support of the relevant economic
commissions.
5. Social: Danger of initial increase in unemployment is limited, as the privatized enterprises have already
reduced their work force or many employees have voluntarily left. On the contrary, restructuring is expected on
one side to increase the number of satisfied and paid-on-time employees and on the other to open new job
opportunities in spin-offs and start-ups.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category [ I A    I ] B    [XI C
The Project will not involve itself with enterprises with severe problems (including environmental ones) which
cannot be solved without large investments. The general Bank experience shows that even basic restructuring
oriented on cost accountability may have positive environmental consequences, such as: better use of energy and
water, limitation of production waste, economized use of materials. CERMA would be ready to provide
environmnental consulting whenever required for implementing a restructuring plan (e.g. bringing a foreign
partner or export to EU).
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have]:
|   Preparation      Implementation        Operation
IS/CON/COL       IS/CON              IS/CON
Primary beneficiaries
Enterprises             IS/CON/COL       IS/CON/COL           IS/CON/COL
Domestic consultants    IS/CON/COL       IS/CON/COL           IS/CON/COL
Institutional Owners    IS/CON/COL       IS/CON/COL           IS/CON/COL
Government              IS/CON/COL       IS/CON/COL           IS/CON/COL
Tax Authorities         IS/CON           IS/CON               IS/CON/COL
Other key stakeholders
Municipalities          IS/CON           IS/CON               IS/CON
Enterprise employees    IS               IS                  IS
Taxpayers               IS               IS                  IS
Investors               IS               IS                  IS
Classify as IS (Infoi riiation sharing), CON (Consultation), and/or COL (Collaboration)
9



F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability: CERMA was established as a non-governmental non-profit organization, with a growing staff of
local turn-around management specialists. CERMA focuses on (i) promoting restructuring services to managers of
privatized finns; (ii) selecting local would-be consultants, to be trained by foreign consultants - trainers; (iii) quality
control; and (iv) disseminating best practices. CERMA will also develop its own training capacity and, together with
selected training institutions in Georgia, organize pre-secondment training for managers of private enterprises.
Experience from other countries (both transitional and developed economies) shows that this type of service provider
plays a permanent role in a market environment, financed partly from own revenues, partly from government and
donor grants. CERMA already has been paid in part by advisory services requested by successful Georgian
enterprises. One of the reasons to establish CERMA as a non-governmental organization was to secure enough
flexibility in shaping its activities in response to market requirements. It was also important that CERMA has no
administrative power to subdue slowly emerging private consulting firms (actually, during the first months of
operation, CERMA has been losing its own-trained consultants to private firms). CERMA was designed as a "lean
organization" contracting-out all professional work to external specialists. There are two exit strategies for CERMA
to follow once the Project is finished. First, CERMA may become a private consulting firm which - taking into
account accumulated skills and experience - would place CERMA at the top of Georgian consulting industry.
Second, CE1RMA may continue its present role if new similar programs are to be started.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                 Risk       Risk Minimization Measure
.............................................................. ....................................................................................................................................................... ...................................................................................
Project outputs to development   (i) limited demand for             M      (i) independent NOO providing
objectives                      restructuring, yielding an                effective TA at locally acceptable
ineffectual demonstration effect.         prices, strong high-level,
Risk is arising: (a) from the             Government support, heavy PR
discrepancy between the                   effort to disseminate successes;
regulatory framework and actual
practice; (b) lack of progress in
implementation of the refonn
agenda;
(ii) delay in creating an efficient  S    (ii) continuous dialogue with
system of managers'                       Government and other
accountability and effective             international agencies involved.
pressures from owners and
creditors
Project components to outputs
(i) enterprise restructuring    (i) resistance of managers to       M      (i) heavy PR effort by CERMA to
making hard choices required by           demonstrate advantages of active
restructuring.                            restructuring and subsequent
dissemination of results
(ii) secondment of managers     (ii) limited demand for training    N     (ii) demonstrate effects in a pilot
and extended stay abroad, andlor          project first, then extend the focus
reluctance to send junior                 through referrals of managers who
managers and train potential              already went through training
rivals.
Overall Risk Rating                                                 M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
10



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Enterprise rehabilitation: Some managers, who are often owners, and employees may see proposed project as a
diversion from their old-style request for Government intervention, to provide cheap financing and protectionist
measures against foreign competition. Consistent policy of the GOG has already constrained those expectations
and will - with the passage of time - further reduce them.
Buildup of skills: Secondment abroad may be perceived by some managers as an old-style reward for
complacency rather than an opportunity to improve managerial skills. On the other hand, managers qualifying
for secondments abroad may be "second line" specialists rather than the top managers who may be afraid to be
absent from the enterprise for too long periods of time. The project has planned for these possibilities, by: (i)
teaching management techniques of a more participatory management style, and (ii) requiring participants to
sign notarized agreements requiring active dissemination of lessons learned, or reimbursement of secondment
costs if the agreement is not fulfilled.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and CERMA.
(b) CERMA has established a financial management system and has selected an auditor acceptable to IDA.
(c) a special account for the Government of Georgia counterpart funds have been established with an initial
deposit of US$75,000 equivalent.
2. Other Conditions:
(a) the Government will transfer the proceeds of the Credit to CERMA as a grant under a Subsidiary
Agreement, acceptable to IDA.
(b) the Government will maintain a project account with counterpart funds with the minimum balance
equivalent to US$75,000.
(c) CERMA will select private enterprises eligible for assistance under the project, based on the eligibility criteria
agreed upon with IDA, and will enter into a written contract with every selected beneficiary.
(d) CERMA and IDA will conduct a mid-term review by February 1, 2001.
The proposed loan itself is too small to offer a workable policy leverage. It will be cross-supported by the
Structural Adjustment Credit III (SACIII), prepared in parallel to the loan. Policy measures necessary for
successful Project implementations include unrestricted and tax-neutral sales of assets, and arrangements
allowing for freezing creditors' claims during agreed restructuring time period.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ I The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [X I Not applicable.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[XI The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
11



I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[Signature]
Project Team Leader: Vladimir G. Kreacic
[Signlature]
Sector Leader/Director: Lars Jeurling/Laj os Bokros
[Sigri 
Courntry Director? Judy O'Connor
12



Annex 1:
Georgia: Enterprise Rehabilitation Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary       Key Performance Indicators  Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions
CAS Objective
* Deepening and             * Manufacturing sector able   * MOE                    * Sustained Government
diversifying sources of     to compete domestically and                            commitment to
growth.                    in the FSU markets;                                     macroeconomic
* Gradual reduction of tax  * MOF                      stabilization and market
arrears.                                               reforms
Project Development
Objectives
* Self-sustainable and      * Continuous improvement    * MOF using financial data    * Continuous support of
continuous adjustment of    and adjustment to market   from participating          CERMA by the
privatized enterprises      challenges internalized as a    enterprises.           Govermment.
through owner- and          top priority of enterprise  * Independent interviews
creditor-led restructuring.  managers.                 and research                * Government will
refrain from softening
enterprise budget
constrain and will initiate
bankruptcy process when
necessary.
Project Outputs
* Sufficient domestic       * CERMA fully staffed and    * Supervision missions and    * Sufficient demand for
consulting capacity in the  self-sustainable;          mid-term Review             consultants' services.
area of enterprise          * 120 local consultants
restructuring and market-  trained by mid 2001, 200 by
economy know-how.           end of Project; and 40
restructured enterprises by
mid 2001, 100 by end of
Project.
* Managers capable to lead    * 60 managers by mid 2001,   * Supervision missions and    * Conditions for
enterprises competing with  150 managers by end of     mid-term Review             secondment (language,
domestic and FSU firms     Project, gone through                                   computer literacy and
secondment in leading firms                            management skills) not
abroad.                                                perceived as too time
* value-added/employee                                 consuming /difficult by
increased at least 20% two                             sufficient number of
years after the end of                                 senior managers.
secondment.
Project Components         Inputs (for each component)
* Enterprise Rehabilitation    * US$15.3 million       * Quarterly Reports from    * Demonstration effect
CERMA                      strong enough to create a
"pull" demand for
restructuring services
* Buildup of managerial                                                            (from enterprises) vs. a
and consulting skills       * US$6.1 million           * Quarterly Reports from    "push" demand (from
CERMA                      owners and creditors).
* Managers convinced of
concept of continuous
adjustment.
13






Annex 2
Georgia: Enterprise Rehabilitation Project
Project Description
Project Component 1:
Enterprise Rehabilitation- US$15.3 million (total cost of component)
Background: Due to many external and internal factors, a majority of Georgian enterprises are in a severe
crisis situation. Downsizing of business happened too late and only as a passive response to the rapidly
changing business environment. In result, it did not produce a viable core, which would be prepared for a
short-term survival and long-term growth. Although the crisis has many dimensions, weak understanding of
its financial dimensions is the major reason for the lack of successful and realistic response. Managers,
even when they are the owners, are passive and a typical response remains "all we need is to be granted
suspension of payment of overdue taxes and injection of foreign investments". The Government of Georgia
is determined to change this situation by providing companies with state of art consultant advice to assist
managers to better use existing internal resources to maximize their chance of survival. The program will
be administered by a non-governmental, non-profit organization, the Center for Enterprise Restructuring and
Management Assistance (CERMA). The CERMA will sub-contract restructuring assistance to be provided
to participating enterprises to the best available international, turn-around consulting firms. The CERMA
has five principle functions:
3  to select enterprises and agree the framework of turn-around assistance (timing, financing,
commiitment to proposed actions and consequences of non-implementation);
*  to manage the work of consulting teams including: preparation of TORs; selection of consulting
firms; supervision of consultants' work progress and deliverables; intermediation between
enterprises and consultants in cases of the conflict; final quality of approval of consultants' work;
and payment for consultants services;
* to communicate to the Government (through the CERMA Supervisory Board) the additional
regulatory and discretionary measures facilitating enterprise adjustment to markets;
*  to select, recruit and train local specialists that will teamn-up with foreign consultants;
•  to organize on-the-job training for managers of participating enterprises in the leading firms abroad.
Objectives: To support and help accelerate Government's industrial reform efforts by (i) providing advisory
services through a local non-profit NGO (CERMA), aiming at improving the profitability and general
operational, financial and managerial efficiency of private and privatized enterprises; and (ii) to support and
facilitate the development of a highly qualified domestic consulting industry.
Contracting Consultants. During Project preparation, CERMA prepared Terms of Reference (TOR) for the
assistance by international consulting firms, financed by the PPF. The TOR for assistance funded umder the
IDA credit was approved by the Association and will be used for the procurement of consultant services
under the proposed Credit.
15



CERMA will conduct open and competitive tenders for the provision of advisory services by outside
consultants. Contracts will be awarded through Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) to those firms
that have a proven record of work in transition econormies, and according to the procedures specified in the
World Bank's "Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" dated January 1997, September 1997 amendment. An Evaluation Committee will be formed to
review the bids submitted by the consultants and select the winner according to Bank procedures. The
Evaluation Committee will include representatives of the CERMA Supervisory Board, CERMA Executive
Director, aLnd an independent observer. The results of the selection will be forwarded to the World Bank for
review and no-objection before final contracts are awarded. CERMA may also contract ad hoc consultants
as needed. according to the Bank procurement rules and subject to no-objection from the Bank.
Selecting Enterprises. CERMA staff, supported by outside consultants as needed, will carry out the initial
diagnostic studies of enterprises that are candidates for receiving assistance under the project. The purpose
of the diagnostic study is to identify and prioritize the enterprise's needs for the advisory services, and
assess the receptivity of management to outside consulting advice, which will ultimately require difficult
restructuring decisions. The diagnostic study will determine whether the efficiency of the enterprise can be
improved without a significant capital investment. If this is not so, CERMA will not pursue any further
consulting assistance to the company. The duration of the diagnostic study will depend on the size and
complexity of the enterprise and other factors. The following eligibility criteria will be used for selecting
enterprises that will receive advisory services financed under the credit:
*  Private and privatized enterprises with substantial shareholding by outside private owners (i.e.,
investment funds or banks), and where CERMA receives a clear indication that these outside
private owners will endeavor to stimulate the implementation of the recommendations for
improvement of the profitability and efficiency of the enterprise;
-  Enterprise management's willingness to collaborate with the outside consultants (including access to
inl'ormation) and pay a share of the costs of the advisory services (including in kind support).
*  Enterprises where improvements in profitability can be achieved, within the constraints of existing
equipment and technology, through managerial, organizational, accounting, financial and marketing
improvements, and thus do not initially require capital investment;
*  Enterprises that are not subject to State control, such as price control, restrictions on sales,
dependence on monopoly state-owned supplier.
Moreover, the participating Enterprises will be expected to:
e create a turnaround management team with broad authorities to sell assets, reduce employment, cut
costs, renegotiate debt repayment, discontinue contracts with suppliers and buyers and sign the new
ones;
* provide the consultant with all the requested information;
* implement the turnaround program as advised by the consultant and agreed with CERMA, or be
forced by the Tax Authorities to sell assets to cover overdue tax obligations.
Financing and Costs Recovery. The advisory service costs for each assignment will be estimated by
CERMA and approved by the World Bank. CERMA will pay the consultants from funds made available
under the Association's Credit. CERMA will be responsible for direct payment of 100 percent of the fees
and expenses of the advisory services to the consultant selected for the assignment. As a rule, CERMA
16



shall recover from the beneficiary enterprises no less than 5 percent of total advisory services costs paid to
the consultant, with possible, well justified exceptions. The proceeds collected from the contribution of the
enterprises shall be used to cover an increasing part of the CERMA's operating costs. It is expected that in
the third year of operation of CERMA 30 percent of the Agency's indirect operating costs (i.e. excluding
domestic consultants employed by CERMA and working on particular projects), will be covered from the
revenues; and no less than 50 percent of the costs thereafter. The payment of the beneficiary enterprises to
CERMA will be stipulated, along with a schedule of payments, in a contract signed between CERMA and
the enterprise before the start of the consulting assignment.
Project Component 2:
Managerial and Consulting Secondments - US$6.1 million (total cost of component)
The basic objective of this component is to
--b1i 1. MarshaUl Plan           ;                7 ZVexpose the managers and consultants to new
concepts of market-oriented management,
hiN  chnical assistance program of the Marshal  marketing and production through practical
Plan was the largest and most comprehensive     internships in leading firms abroad. This will be
program of assistance to civilian industry ever  followed by dissemination of main lessons learnt
undertaiken.fIn a few years between 1948 and 1960,  abroad to non-participating firms in Georgia.
and at low cost of US$300niillion (or 1.5 percent of  The program emphasizes a more balanced
the Marshal plaa), these programs reached almost
every plant in every industry, marketing agency, aid  approach to that beig practiced today: istead
agricultural entity in the war-devastated countries of  of only sending Western consultants to Georgia,
Westrn EEurope, introducing them to a technology  it will send large numbers of Georgian managers
morethani a generation in advance of what they were  and consultants to advanced producers in
then' using. -The basic instruments of the program  developed countries or countries with transition
were hundreds of study tours, which brouglht some  economies which have successfully restructured
24,000 Western Europeans first hand experience of  their enterprises. The Program has its
new concepts of workplace organization, marketing  precedence in the very successful post-WW2
:ad business orgamization, new products and     Marshall Plan TA romponent wherein West
designs,-and new equipment. The TA was offered  European managers va.sited the USA and which
free Of charge; the high motivation of participarts  resulted in non-capital productivity increases in
stenuned from their well recognized self-interest and  individual firms by 25 to 50% (see Box 1). In
Georgia, the expected improvement may be even
higher due to the severe misallocation of assets
inherited from central planning, the low current level of management training, and the huge drop in
production over the last 8 years. CERMA will design, subcontract and overview in-house crash course
training for selected candidates covering: one of the major commercial languages, computer skills (word
processing, spreadsheet, presentation package, Internet), and basic management and business
communication skills. It is expected that approximately 400 participants will complete these introductory
courses, from which candidates will be selected for secondment to selected foreign firms to see how skills,
organization and technology are combined to respond to the continuously changing market demands.
Candidates will have to commit to a rigorous and demanding work program. To ensure transparency, the
final choice of secondment candidates will be made by a Selection Committee representing CERMA, the
Government, consulting self-regulating organizations (SROs), as well as the banking and enterprise sectors.
Program participants will be obliged by up-front contracts to "pay back" this investment through their
17



availability upon their return for follow-up dissemination activities. To minimize costs and maximize the
synergy effect, participants will be organized into groups. The standard group will consist of three members
visiting the same host firm. For training purposes two to four groups can be combined. The secondment
period will be divided into two modules: a 6 to 12-week Basic Module and a 4- to 8-week Optional Module.
A standard week work load will be as follows: (1) four days in the host firm on-the-job training, (2) one day
of in-class training based on case studies and specific management courses, and (3) one day of report
preparation. The second (optional) module would consist of visits to other leading firms. Approximate costs
are presented in Box 2. On their return, the groups will prepare, with the assistance of CERMA, a written
report on the operations of the visited firm, including quality control, job structure and management,
accounting and financing systems, marketing channels and techniques, and export promotion. They will
convene a series of workshops, wide enough to secure a broad dissemination of new know-how acquired by
the seconded participants. They will also assist CERMA in the preparation of further secondments and
follow-up activities.
The targeted participants are medium-to-
t~oz 2: ApproImatCos per participant for the            senior-level managers of private and
:::g:000:Maximum tProgra o f 12i6 ; weeks f(U4S fDollars) i00 :i privatized enterprises from industrial and
agro-processing sectors with a strong
- .LWCKC:I . 02j:C0-fe05  i000;S; ;i00;40;00X;X000040;000motivation to learn and consultants with
~~~""~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~exposure to enterprise restructuring. They
Training        2000                     ~~~~~~~~will have basic competency in English or
BLOCK fi/Modulel                         ~~~~~~another commercial language, basic
tltti;ttSAbJv<7d {12weeks lf _    X00;;0 ;00i4 j       0  computer skills and knowledge of
Transportation   600                     ~~~~~management techniques or they could have
PeXr Die    e      -005,040 184 days @$6Ol              successfully completed Block I training.
Acvonuuodatliiion00- l04-ggg000-;j0440 015,040 [84 days 0J$J  0Eligible firms willing to designate managers
it:;StitTraining#  --. --E:g::E04i:7,200 124d           for the Program have to be without any
@$3001       .        6,000 160 da0  @$l001             overdue obligation to the state budget, or
Ot RoSt;00Com pany   0; 00;;00 l0;40000000400A0446sooo[6o dap; t#Slprivatized firms in the process of
To0Diet bt  38 0  restructuring.
verhe  Costs 10% ;00 t;;0004 il4X00444000l:00 000000 2,36000 0The participating firms would be expected to
cover all local costs during the first and the
tTot:BLOCKH/IModule'IY              26,260
Total BLOCK 11/Module 1  26,260          last blocks of training (pre-placement
Total BLOCK I & 11/Basic Module      28,260             training and dissemination of lessons
learned).
Specification as BLOCK H/Module!: b     j10,oo  ;       To secure participation of small and
20,000                         .         ~~~~~~~~~~~medium-sized t;;.;:rpises (SMEs)--which can
economicallyjustify only very small
expenditures on training--in exceptional
cases and upon a decision of the Supervisory Board of the CERMA, a larger part of secondment costs may
be covered by Enterprise Rehabilitation Project (ERP) funds or grant financing.
The basic Program (Blocks I & II/Basic Module) would cost some US$ 5.5 million, including the costs of
establishi.ng and maintaining related CERMA activities for two years (one foreign expert, two senior local
staff, 14 young professionals involved in secondments as interpreters and learning on their own, partly
financed ifrom the Program, two support staff, and start-up costs).
18



An initial sampling of 20 eligible enterprises suggests that those enterprises could be ready to delegate
approximately 50 managers to participate in the local training part of the Program (Block I) and at least the
first Module abroad.
19






Annex 3
Georgia: Enterprise Rehabilitation Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Comoonent                                              Local             Foreign         Total
--- US S million-
Enterprise Rehabilitation                                           6.3              7.4           13.7
Development of managerial and Consulting Skills (Marshall           1.2              4.0            5.2
Plan), including support to CERMA
Total                                                               7.5             11.4           18.9
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                           0.4              0.5            0.9
Price Contingencies                                              1.0              0.6            1.6
Total Proiect Cost                                                  8.9             12.5           21.4
Note: Total project costs are based on May 1998 prices. Due to the evolving nature of the Georgian economy, all
estimated costs are based on the US dollar. Physical contingencies were estimated at about 7% of total baseline
cost. Price contingencies used the estimated inflation rate of 6% for FY 1998-2003 to adjust costs during project
implementation. Project expenditures other than foreign technical assistance will be subject to taxes according to
the existing tax legislation.
21






Annex 4
Georgia: Enterprise Rehabilitation Project
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Summary of benefits and costs:
Preliminary cost-benefit analysis indicates significant net benefits from the Project. It total costs will
depend on the number of participating enterprises (for the first component) and a number of participating
managers and the duration of their secondment (for the second component). An initial sampling of 20
eligible enterprises suggests sufficient interest in the Program. Most enterprises expressed readiness to
cover part of the costs of restructuring and/or secondments for managers to participate in the Program. The
Program, realized over a five-year period, would cost approximately US$ 21.4 million. The cost of
establishing and maintaining CERMA was originally covered by EU (TACIS) and for five year of operation
would be close to US$ 2.1 million (including IDA financing of US$1.3 million equivalent, TACIS funds of
USO.5 million equivalent, and the Government of Georgia counterpart funding of US$0.3 million).
The benefits will be direct and indirect. Direct monetary benefits of this type of project (investment in
managerial skills and consulting services) are relatively easy to be measured for individual enterprises
participating in the Program. Principal direct benefits include (i) increased value added (profit and wages)
per employee, mostly through cost cutting and higher efficiency; (ii) increased productivity (energy
efficiency, materials management, plant utilization, and product quality); and (iii) increased level of capacity
utilization (through regaining of market share) in participating firms. The indirect benefit is the externality
of productivity improvement in firms which did not participate in the Program, but received detailed reports
and participated in free-of-charge, follow-up dissemination of productivity improvement measures 'copied'
from abroad.
It is much more difficult to measure the benefits of the Project for the Georgian economy in general, and
the industrial sector in particular. In general, without the catalyst of improved management, many
privatized firms would slowly end up in bankruptcy. Specific, positive externalities of Project
implementation, which are many, can be measured only by costs of counterfactuals - lack of post-
privatization support to enterprises and leaving enterprises in the hands of "unreformed" managers. Such
counterfactuals include (1) unpaid taxes on potential wages, profits, and personal incomes of owners and
employees - direct ones and from the induced demand for the production of other enterprises, (2)
unrecovered depreciation of capital; (3) unemployment benefits. It is an important underlying requi.ement of
the Program that the managers participating in the secondments will: (1) prepare detailed reports of their
findings during the secondment, and (2) "pay back" by participating in the dissemination of results in
workshops, seminars, visits and explanations to non-participating enterprises.
Costs practically equal the costs of IDA credit, as the counterpart costs will be mostly lirmited to in-
kind contribution.
23



There will be no immediate fiscal impact on the cost side, while in the long run there will be the
repayment of the Credit and service charge. Under IDA conditions (0.75 percent for 35 years) the real costs
(i nation djusted) are negligent. On the benefit side, it is expected that participating companies will
rc rease chieir income shortly after participation in this Progran and therefore, make tax payrnents to the
budget (for example, in Moldova, in the 9 months after implementation of a similar program, the State, the
local budgets, te Social Fund and other creditors received US$103 million).
Main Assumptions:
WYe assume that, at present, there are no alternative investments in the industrial sector suitable for the Bank
financing. Large-scale profitable investnents are either not eligible for the Bank financing (e.g. tobacco) or
can be financed by private sources (e.g. gas transportation). Small-medium size enterprises in the vast
majority are not suitable for investment prior to the major re-adjustmnent offered by this Project.
Cost-effectiveness indicators
The cost-effectiveness of the proposed Project can be benchrnarked in two ways, by: 1). Comparison of
present value added per employee in Georgia with other Central and Eastern European economies in
transition and in the West, and identification of "room for improvement"; 2) Comparison with the results of
a simular project implemented in Moldova.
A analysis of Georgian light industry shows that value added (wages and profits) per employee per
year is betvvn US$300 and US$400. For comparison, in Slovenia in the same sub-sector, value added is
US$10,000 and in the European Union the average value added is between US$29,000 and US$39,000. The
differences may be mostly attributed to the failures of the previous, and still prevailing, economic
management system (low X-efficiency). Value added in formner East Germany was about 27 percent of the
West German level, and in the Czech Republic about 31 percent of the Austrian level. It is clear that in
Georgia there is room for dramatic improvement. Its value added can be easily increased by a factor of 2,
and it will still not come close to the levels of Central European transition economies.
In Moldova, results in enterprises restructured under the First Private Sector Development Project
iclude improved production efficiency, significant cost reductions (through a range of measures including
major downsizing of excess labor, energy conservation, improved material management) and creation of a
number ofi new small firms through spin-offs, with sustained ability to meet their current obligations. In one
case, following restructuring through liquidation, over 30 new private enterprises were established as spin-
offs of an old state enterprise. These firms doubled the tumover of the formner state enterprise and created
over 300 new jobs that would otherwise have been lost. In another case, a reorganized company, streamlined
its processes, doubled its sales and now occupies 50 percent of its original plant floor, and selling or leasing
the rest to 25 new, private companies. Its energy costs today are less than 10% of what they were a year
ago, while overall production costs are 30 percent lower. These results are not unusual; in fact, they were
achieved by a one-time intervention of local and foreign consultants. Worldwide experience confirms that
there is a strong synergy effect when managers are professionally qualified and motivated to change their
enterpnses continuously (by using consultants and own expertise) on a day-to-day basis.
24



Annex 5
Georgia: Enterprise Rehabilitation Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(USD million, base year 1999)
Implementation Period                       Operational Pen-od
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Project Costs
Investment Costs           5.2      4.3     4.1      2.5     3.3
Recurrent Costs            0.8      0.3     0.3      0.3     0.3
Total                   6.0      4.6     4.4 -    2.8     3.6
Financing Sources (% of total
proiect costs)
IDA                        11       23      16       12      9
Co-financiers
TACIS                  9        5       0        0       0
Government
Central                  1       4       4        2        1
Beneficiaries
Beneficiary Enterprises    0    0        1        1       1
Total                   21       32      21       15       11
Main assumption:
* CERMA will be able to assist in restructuring of 100 enterprises, design and arrange secoudment
training program in-country for 400 managers and secondment in-cornpany abroad for 150 mnagers.
25






Annex 6
Georgia: Enterprise Rehabilitation Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table Al)
Consultant selection arrangements (Table A2)
Procurement schedule(Table B)
Procurement information (Table C)
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table D)
Disbursement schedule (Table E)
Procurement
Goods and consultant services to be financed under the credit will be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines - Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995, revised January and
August 1996, September 1997 amendment; and Guidelines - Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997, revised September 1997. The procurement arrangements are
summarized in Table A. The procurement schedule is presented in Table B. Procurement would involve
technical assistance and training (approximate 89% of total project costs), and purchasing of goods
(approximate 2% of total project costs). All procurement under the proposed project will be carried out at
central level by the Center for Enterprise Restructuring and Management Assistance (CERMA). The project
will finance technical assistance for procurement and management support to the CERMA. Operating costs of
the CERMA will be financed from the credit proceeds and by EU TACIS.
Procurement Responsibility
The Center for Enterprise Restructuring and Management Assistance (CERMA), an autonomous legal entity
with an overall responsibility for delivery of technical and managerial assistance to restructured enterprises, will
be the project-managing agency. CERMA will oversee all procurement activities under the project. The
CERMA staff will include a full-time procurement specialist. The main responsibility of the procurement
specialist will be to prepare and: (a) submit to the Bank all procurement documents which require Bank's prior
review; (b) carry out any procurement; (c) prepare and submit to the Bank at the beginning of each calendar
27



year a detailed procurement schedule. It is expected that Donor financing will be found for this purpose,
otherwise it will be funded by the proposed credit. The appointment of the procurement specialist will be done
in consultation with the Bank. At project launch workshop (February, 1999), the Bank will conduct a
procurement: workshop to present and explain procurement guidelines.
Notification of Business Opportunities
A General Procurement Notice will be published in December 31, 1998 issue of Development Business, and as
appropriate, will be updated and published annually thereafter. For goods and consultants' contracts of
US$200,000 or more to be obtained by ICB for goods and by short-list procedure for consultants, individual
bidding opportunities will also be advertised, in a major local newspaper thirty (30) days prior to availability of
bidding documents and transmitted to potential bidders who expressed interest in bidding in response to the
published General Procurement Notice. For the preparation of short lists in the selection of consultants, GPN(s)
will be published soliciting expressions of interests. In addition, a specific notice in Development Business will
be required fbr consultants' contracts of US$200,000 or more.
Procurement of Goods
Goods, estimated at US$0.4 million, of which IDA credit US$0.2 million (including US$0.1 million financed
under the PPF), would consist of office equipment, vehicles and computers (hardware and software). Most
goods (computer hardware and software, and a generator, estimated to cost US$0.2 million) have already been
financed by E U TACIS during project preparation. The remainder (computers and other equipment for
CERMA) is to be funded by the proposed credit. Because of the small amount remaining (US$0.1 million)
International and National Shopping (IS and NS) procurement procedures will be followed for purchases
estimated to cost an aggregate of US$0.1 million. IS and NS procurement procedures will be followed for
readily available off-the-shelf goods of standard specifications that are small in value. IS procedures will be
used for goocds valued at less than US$200,000, and NS procedures will be used for goods valued at less than
US$50,000. It is expected that miscellaneous office equipment, non-proprietary spare parts and certain training
materials/equipment will be procured using IS and NS procedures. IS procedures will require obtaining
quotations from at least three suppliers from two different countries and for NS procedures, quotations from at
least three local suppliers.
Consulting Services
Consulting Services to be contracted out, estimated at US$19 million of which IDA credit estimated at US$13.6
million (including US$1.6 million under PPF) have been allocated for technical assistance and training'. The
Bank 100 percent net of taxes would finance consultant services under the credit. The Terms of Reference
(TOR) for all assignments will be subject to Bank's prior review. As presented in Annex 6, Table Al and Table
A2, consultant services would be procured as follows:
(i) For the Enterprise Rehabilitation Component of the project, up to five (5) contracts for an
estimated value of US$8.1 million would be awarded to reputable management consulting firms
with extensive expenence in restructunng privatized enterprises in the FSU. The consultants shall
be selected under the "Quality - and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS)" method.
(ii) For Developing Managerial and Consulting Skills (Marshall Plan) one contract of estimated
value of US$4.6 million would be awarded to a consulting firmn or specialized training organization
with experience in providing on-the-job training for managers. These services would be procured
'Three contracts for consulting services financed under PPF in a total amount of US$1.6 million have already been
procured under the QCBS method of procurement.
28



following the "Quality - and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS)" method.
(iii) Individual consultant contracts with estimated value US$1.5 million would be awarded to
individual consultants who will be providing advisory services to the implementing agencies. It is
estimated that up to 10 individual short-tern consulting contracts will be awarded to international
restructuring experts and up to 100 individual long-term contracts will be awarded to Iccal
consultants. The consultants would be hired in accordance with section V of Consultants'
Guidelines.
(fv) Audit services will be procured under LCS procedures of the Consultant's Guidelines.
Operating Costs, The CERMA, was established to ensure delivery of services to enterprises and timely
project implementation. The credit will finance incremental operating costs of CERMA estimated at US$1.1
million, mainly local travel expenses, office rental, utilities, fuel for office heating, communication services
(phone, fax, electronic mail), office supplies, postage, equipment operation and maintenance, minor office
repairs, incremental salaries of local personnel for the CERMA, project audits, and office supplies.
Reimbursement will be made on the basis of annual budgets pre-approved by the Bank. The local personnel are
being recruited following a short list selection and TOR agreed upon with the Bank. The salary levels will be
agreed upon with the Bank. It is anticipated that the salary levels will be comparable to other implementing
agencies of Bank-financed projects in Georgia.
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$ 1.9 million includes financing for (i) consulting services and
technical assistance (US$1.6million), (ii) goods to support Project preparation - computers, office equipment,
and vehicles (US$ 0.1 million); and (iii) incremental operating costs of CERMA (US$0.2 million). Under the
PPF, three consulting service contracts of total value estimated at US$1.6 million equivalent, have already been
awarded.
Bank Prior Review
Prior review by the Bank will be exercised for the following procurement documents:
* Goods:
*  All contracts for goods procured costing more than US$100,000;
*  Consultants' Services:
*  All contracts for individual consultants above US$50,000;
*  All contracts for firms estimated above US$100,000.
Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR)
To date, a CPAR for Georgia has not been prepared. In general, experience with competitive bidding
procedures is limited and close supervision by the Bank and the consultants will be necessary. For this project,
the Government will follow Bank procurement procedures as described above and as set forth in the Credit
Agreement.
29



Disbursement
Allocation of Credit Proceeds: The proceeds of the credit (US$15.00 million equivalent) would be lent to the
Government: of Georgia. The proceeds of the credit would be passed to the Ministry of Finance. The Borrower
would bear the foreign exchange risk. The proposed credit would be disbursed over a period of five years up to
June 30, 2003 (Annex 6 Tables D and E). The credit closing date (i.e., the final date for presentation of requests
for approval or authorization to disburse on project components) would be December 31, 2003, six months after
the completion date. The project completion date would be June 30, 2003. The percent of expenditures for
goods, consulting services, and incremental operating costs to be financed under the Credit is given in Annex 6,
Tables A, B and C.
Special Acciount: To facilitate timely project implementation, the borrower would establish, maintain and
operate, under condition acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in US dollars in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank. The selection process and criteria for selection of the commercial bank would follow the
World Bank standard selection procedures. During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation of the
Special Account would be limited to US$0.5 million. However, when the aggregate disbursement under the
Credit have reached the level of SDR 3 million, the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized
allocation of US$1.0 million by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal. Replenishment
applications should be submitted at least every three months, and must include reconciled bank statements as
well as other appropriate supporting documents. The minimum application size for payments directly from the
Credit account will be 20 percent of the Special Account deposit.
Statement of Expenditures: Disbursements would be made against Statement of Expenditures (SOE) as follows:
I  Goods: - for expenditures under contract costing less than US$100,000 equivalent;
' Individual Consultants - for contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent;
Consulting Firns - for contracts estimated less than $100,000 equivalent
Incremental Operating Costs and Training- for expenses of less than $50,000 equivalent.
The CERMAL will keep documentation supporting SOE and it will make available for the required audit as well
as to Bank supervision missions.
30



Table Al: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                                Procurement Method                   Total Cost (including
contingencies)
ICB   NCB        Other          N.B.F
1. Goods
Computers, vehicle and equipment                              0.1 (')         0.2               0.3
(0.1)                            (0.1)
2. Services
TA Consultants                                                8.2 (b)         2.2              10.4
(6.3)                            (6.3)
TA Consultants/Training and In-company
Placements                                                    4.6 (b)         0.9               5.5
(4.6)                            (4.6)
Individual Consultants                                        15 e>)                            1.5
(1.1)                            (1.1)
3. Other
CERMA Incremental Operating Costs                             1.3 (a)         0.5               1.8
(1.0)                            (1.0)
4. PPF
TA Consultants                                                1.6 (b)                           1.6
(1.6)                            (1.6)
Computers, Vehicle and Equipment                              0. I )                            0.1
(0.1)                            (0.1)
CERMA Incremental Operating Costs                             0.2 (a)                       -  0.2
(0.2)                            (0.2)
Total                     17.6            3.8               21.4
(15.0)                            (15.0)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultancies under trust funds,
any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). "Other" = (d International/National Shopping; 0) Consultant services.
Incremental operating costs are defined as "Operation and maintenance costs of CERMA and the PIU with respect to: (i)
communications, (ii) utilities, and maintenance, (iii) transportation, and (iv) other administrative and operating expenses-including
some staff salaries-incurred for the purposes of project implementation and minor renovation works of office space."
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
31



Table A2: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant 'Services                               Selection Method                                 Total Cost
Expenditure Category
(including
contingencies)
QCBS      QBS    SFB         LCS        CQ       Other       N.B.F.
A. Finns                     14.3 '                        0.1                             2.2             16.6
(12.4)('                      (0.1)                                           (12.5)
B. Individuals
1.5        0.9              2.4
(1.1)                      (1.1)
Total    14.3 '                        0.1                 1.5         3.1             19.0
(12.4)(')                     (0.1)               (1.1)                       (13.6)
(a) Includes USI.6 million procured under PPF.
Note:  QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Qualitybased Selection
SFB = S,election under a Fixed Budget
LCS = .Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines)
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
32



Table B: Procurement Schedule Period: July 1998 to June 2003 - USSmillion equivalent
D-a4W-e           Type    Nu-r of              Ecdafd             Preawranate       Prqiedn           /J$aw of          Subnwssion         Signing  Compkdn of
p*ag-              Cest              Method             of docot          Invkan             Of Bi              of Contract Contreac
Computer, Vehicle &Office Equipment
G         3                0.1                IS/NS              3/31/99           6/30/99            8/17/99            9/30/99   12/30/99
. Consultmts' Servies
Entaprise Restucturing   CS      5                 6.2               QCBS               4/30/99           throughout the life of the project             12/31//03
Enterprise Restructuring   CS   110                1.1               IC                 4/30/99           throughout the life of the project              12/31/03
| I-comy Training      CS         1                4.6               QCBS               2/28/99            6/30/99           8/3199             10/31/99  12/31//03
Audits                 CS         I                0.1               LeS                12/31398           01/31/99          03/01199           04/01199  12/31/03
C Incremental ODenrtuf Cofas
CERMA Incremental Operating Costs                  1.0                Other             4/30/99           throughout the life of the project              12/31/03
D. PPF
Restructuring Consultants   CS   3                  1.6                QCBS              1/05/98            5/07/98            07/07/98          09/01/98 07/31/99
Conputer, Vehicle & Office Equipment  G 2           0.1               IS/NS              3/31/98            06/30/98           08/15/98          09/30/98  09/31/99
CERMA Incremental Operating Costs                   0.2                other                                throughout the life of the PPF                 09/30/99
TOTAL                                           15.0
G = Goods; TA/CS = Technical Assistance/Consultant Services; SC = Special Services; TR = Training; ICB = international Conpetitive Bidding, IS = International Shopping; CQ = consultants' Qualifications;
QCBS = Quality and Cost Based Services; LCS = Least Cost Selection; IC = Individual Consultants
33



Table C: Procurement Information
Seetion I: Procurement Review
Procurement ofGoods                    ICB           NCB                     IS                                     NS              kOtherMethods
APrCurmn,ndo  rsod                    > 5200, W0US$200,000                                                        <USS50,000        increetal operaing cogts based on wnually ap,oroved bude
2. Prior Review                        > $200,000.                                                                                    .
ProcUrement of Coultant Services           QBS               QCBS                FB              Least Cost               CQ          Individual
I. Procurement method thresholds                   I
2. Prior Review                                      > S100,000                           All TORs and                                All TORs and Contracts above $50,000
First two conftract
3. Ex-post Review                                    .                                    All other contracts     I                   All odher contrats
Section 2. Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurenent and Technical Assistance requiremnents
I. CERMA to recruit qualified procurement staffwith prior experience in World Bank procurement procedures: CERMA will have primary responsibility for overseeing inplementation of procurement procedures.
2. Country Procurnemnt Assessmnent Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status:          3. Arc the bidding documcnts for the procumreret actions ofthe fust year ready by negotiations7 No, draft
bidding docuffents ready by effectiveness.
Not Available
Section 3. Training, Infomatlon and Development on Procurement
I. Estimated date of Projec Launch Workshop:   2. Estimated date of General Procurement Notice    3. Indicate if contacsU are subject to mandatory SPN in  4. Domestic Preference for Goods:
publication.                                 Development Business: All consultant contracts above
February 1999                                                                           USS200,000                                               Not Applicable
December31, 1998
5. Retroactive financing: No                                                                                                                        6. Advanced Procurement No
7. Procurement Monitoring System: CERMA to report procurement adions in quarterly progress reports.
SectIon 4. Procurement Staffing
1. Indicate name of Procurement Staffas part of Project Team            UNIT                                                    Ext.
Seyoum Solomon/Snezana Mitorvic                                         ECSHD/ECSSD                                             32393/32182
2. Explain briefly the Expected role ofthe Field Office in Procurement None
34



Table D: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category            Amount in US$           Financing Percentage
million
Goods                                         0.1         100% foreign expenditure
100% local expenditure (ex factory)
80% local expenditure
TA and Training                              10.9         100% of total expenditure
CERMA Incremental Operating Costs             1.1         100%
Refinance PPF                                 1.9
Unallocated                                   1.0
TOTAL           15.0
35



Table E: Disbursement Schedule
(US $ million equivalent)
Ouaner ending                Appraisal estimate           Cumulative
FY1999
Sept.                               0.40                  0.40
Dec.                                0.50                  0.90
March                               0.45                  1.35
June                                0.95                  2.30
FY2000
Sept.                               1.20                  3.50
Dec.                                1.00                  4.50
March                               1.60                  6.10
June                                1.10                  7.20
FY2001
Sept.                               0.80                  8.00
Dec.                                0.85                  8.85
March                               1.00                  9.85
June                                0.75                  10.60
FY2002
Sept.                               0.50                  11.10
Dec.                                0.50                  11.60
March                               1.30                  12.90
June                                0.30                  13.20
FY2003
Sept.                               0.50                  13.70
Dec.                                0.50                  14.20
March                               0.50                  14.70
June                                0.30                  15.00
36



Annex 7
Georgia: Enterprise Rehabilitation Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                                Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
366,300                 283,700
B. Project Schedule                                        Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)                      11/04/1996              11/04/1996
Appraisal mission departure                              05/15/1998              05/15/1998
Negotiations                                             09/05/1998              10/06/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                            01/15/1999
Prepared by: CERMA/WB
Preparation assistance: PHRD, TACIS
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                             Specialty
Vladimir-Goran Kreacic                              Senior Enterprise Restructuring Specialist, Program
Team Leader
Gregory Jedrzejczak                                 Senior Private Sector Development Specialist
Snezana Mitrovic \ Seyoum Solomon                   Procurement Specialists
Anna Staszewicz                                     Financial Analyst/Financial Management Officer
Friedrich Peloschek                                 Sr. Country Lawyer
Irina Kichigina                                     Country Lawyer
Vesna Petrovic                                      Operations Analyst
Paola Scalabrin                                     Consultant
Essen Ulgenerk                                      Banking Specialist
Eka Vashakmadze                                     Economist
Nicholay Chistyakov                                 Disbursement Officer
Manuel F. Santiago                                  Team Assistant
37






Annex 8
Georgia: Enterprise Rehabilitation Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
PCD
C. Other
Simeon Djankov, Vladimir-Goran Kreacic: "Restructuring of Manufacturing Firms in Georgia:
Four Case Studies   and a Survey"
Simeon Djankov, Vladimir-Goran Kreacic: " Survey of Constraints to Private Business in Georgia"
(draft).
*Including electronic files.
39



I



Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Georgia
Operations Portfolio
Difference
between
expected
and actual
disbursements
Project   Fiscal                                  Original Amounilt in US5 Millions a'
Cancellatio Undisbur     Frm
ID        Year Borrower          Purpose          IBRD IDA  ns          sed      Orio  Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 3
Active Proiects
GE-PE-   1999 GEORGIA            TRNSPT MIN         0.00  2.30       0.00    2.47  0.00   0.00
56514     199RESTRUCT.
GE-PE-   1998 GOVERNMENT   SOCIAL INVEST.  0.00 20.00                0.00    18.99  3.92   0.00
39929          OF GEORGIA        FUND
GE-PE-   1998 GOVERNMENT   SAC11                    0.00 60.00       0.00   20.14  4.05   0.00
44797          OF GEORGIA
5G910E    1998 GEORGIA           DEVM               0.00 20.90       0.00    19.03  4.92   0.00
GE-PE-   1998 GOVERNMENT   SATAC II                 0.00  5.00       0.00    2.79  2.07   0.00
51034          OF GEORGIA
GE-PE-   1998 GOVERNMENT   CULTURAL                 0.00  4.49       0.00    4.55   .73   0.00
55573          OF GEORGIA        HERITAGE
GE-PE-   1997 GOVERNMENT   POWER REHAB.   0.00 52.30                 0.00   30.33 13.33   0.00
35784          OF GEORGIA
GE-PE-  GVERNMENT OIL
GE-PE-   1997  OVERNMENT   INSTITUTION             0.00  1.40       0.00     .85   .19   0.00
44830          OF GEORGIA        BLDG
GE-PE-   1997 GOVT. OF           AGRICULTURE    0.00 15.00           0.00    9.39 -2.19   0.00
8415           GEORGIA           DEVELOP.
39892E    1996O GOVERGMEAT   TRANSPORT              0.00 12.00       0.00     .22  -.08   0.00
GE-PE-   1996 REPUBLIC OF    STRUCT.                0.00  4.80       0.00     .26   .49   0.00
44388          GEORGIA           ADJUST. TA
GE-PE-   1996 GOVERNMENT   HEALTH                   0.00 14.00       0.00    10.54  6.22   0.00
8414           OF GEORGIA
GE-PE-    gg  MINISTRY OF    MUNICIPAL              000 18.00        0.00     1.67  3.29   0.00
8417           FINANCE           INFRA. REH
Total                                               0.00230.19       0.00   121.23 51.94   0.00
Active Projects       Closed Projects        Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA)              :                 106.28                147.77   254.05
of which has been repaid                 :                   0.00                   0.00     0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA              :                 230.19                 145.10   375.29
Amount sold                                 :                   0.00                  0.00      0.00
of which repaid                          :                   0.00                   0.00     0.00
Total Undisbursed                           :                 121.23                  0.00   121.23
a. Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
41






Annex 9a
Georgia
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Sep-98
In Millions US Dollars
-------Held---------        --------Disbursed-----
-------IFC--------------F----
FY Approval             Company                Loan Equity  Quasi Partic  Loan Equity  Quasi Partic
1997                    Georgia G&MW Co.    0.00   2.80   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.80   0.00   0.00
1998                    TBC Bank                3.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    .22   0.00   0.00   0.00
Total Portfolio:                                3.00   2.80   0.00   0.00    .22   2.80   0.00   0.00
Approvals Pending
Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1999                    GEORGIA M-F             0.00    .74   0.00   0.00
BANK
1999                    NINOTSMINDA             0.00   0.00   6.00   0.00
1998                    TBC BANK                0.00   1.00   0.00   0.00
1998                    THE KSANI              6.32   2.50   0.00   0.00
Total Pending Commitment:               .       6.32   4.24   6.00   0.00
43






ANNEX l0
Georgia at a glance
Europe &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Central  middle-
Georgia      Aisb  income       Dsvdeoprwnnt diamond'
Population, mid-year (millions)                      5.4       476     2,285                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Alas nmehod, USS)                    840     2,320     1,230
GNP (Adas nefhod, USS billions)                      4.5     1,106     2,818
Average annual growth, 1091497
Population (%)                                       -0.2      0.2       1.2   |                                 Gro
Labor horce(%)                                       -0.1      0.5       1.3     GNP                            aGross
Moat recent estimate Ilatest year available, 199197)                             capita              /       enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulation below national povwrty line)  30
Urban population (% of total populaWon)               58        67       42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      73        69       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 De birMs)                 18        25       36
",hild malnutrition 'X odchlkken under 5)                       ..        ..               Access to safe water
Access to safe waler ( of population)                 ..        ..       84
Illiteracy (% ofpopulatbon age 15+)                    1                  1Gr19
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age populabon)   86        92      111 Glo9la
Male                                                                  116              Lower-nIddle-income group
Female                                                                113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios
GOP (USS billions)                           ..       ..       4.6       5.2
Gross domestic investment/GOP                       29.9       6.0       6.7
Exports of goods and services/GDP                             11.2      11.9                    Trade
Gross domestic savingsGDP                           29.8       -1.8     4.2
Gross national savings/GDP                                     2.3       1.9
Current account batancelGDP                                    -9.1    -102       /msi
Interest payments/GOP                                          1.4       0 8     Sissngc                    Investment
Total debU/GDP                                                30.1      29.6     Savings                    i t
Total debt service/exports                                    15.3      13.9
Prsent value of debtGDP                                       23.9      19.1
Present value of debtlexports                                213.4    208.9
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996      1997  1998-02
(averae annual growth)
GDP                                                 10.5      10.9       7.6            Gergfa
GNP per capita                                      12.7      12.8       8.1              Lower-mlkdle-Income group
Exports of goods and services         ,             17.8      18.4      12.2        _                             ___
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and lnvesmnt()
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                         26.8      33.4      31.6    15
Industry                                            37.0      25.1      23.4     7s -
Manufacturing                                      27.8      1 8.8     17.5
Services                                            36.2      41.5      45.0      o_
Private consumption                                 57.4      92.7      95.2   -.s
General govemment consumption                       12.8       9.1       9.0
Imports of goods and services                                 18.9      22.7                  Ga        OGDP
1976-86  198747      1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and Import
(a8rae s-nusl growtf)                                                            Cofir1so  xot n  tpr 
Agriculture                                                    3.0       3.5    45
Industry                                                       2.0       2.0    30
Manufacturing                                                 2.0      2.0
Servies                                                       16.8      17.2    s5
Private consumption                                            2.2      15.4
Generai govemment cornmption                                  40.0      10.9            92 s3   94            s 9 e      9
Gross domestic investm8nt                                     57.0      90.9   -15                      d
Imports of oods ard services                                   9.7      39.2           -Epots   -mpors
Gross national product                      4.4   -16.5       12.7      11.2                        ,,    ,
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its incomrnerouc averaoe. if data are missina. the diamond wil
be incomplete.
45



Georgia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1976      1986       1996      1997       Inflation 1%)
(% change)                                                                             20 000
Consumer prices                                                    39.4        7.1     15000
Implicit GDP deflator                           0.5      6.1       40.2        7.1     la o00
Govemnient flnance                                                                      s o00
(% of GDP. Includes current arants)                                                        0
Current revenue                                                     8.1        9.9                92   93   94   95   90   97
Current biLdget balance                                             -4.6      -3.5                    GDP deflator    O CPI
Overall sLIrplus/deficit                                           -5.8       -4.6
TRADE
(USSmillIons)                                1976      1986       1996      1997       Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                                 463       559      1 ooo
Black metal                                                        80        101
Tea                                                                 19        24       7o0
Manufactures                                                      231        236
Total impnrts (cif)                              ..        ..       768       947           .I0
Food                                                              213        154       250
Fuel and energy                                                   184        196
Capital goods                                                     129        330        0
Export price index (1995=100)                                                                 91   92   93   94  ss   9c   97
Import price index (19955100)                          .    .                    .                  * Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                         .         ._                                          _        _       _
BALANCE o PAYMENTS
1 976    1986       1996       1997      Currentaccount balancetoGDPratio
(USS millllons)                                                                          0
Exports ol goods and services                                       511       623       C       a       b       t GPrto%
Imports ol goods and services                                       867      1,192          9    92   93
Resource balance                                                   -356       -569     -.I
Net income                                                          -62        34
Net current transfers                                               141       188       20
Current account balance                                            -418       -535     -30
Financing items (net)                                               339       474
Changes iin net reserves                                             79         61     -40
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millons)             .        ..       159       175
Conversion rate (DEC, lecal/USS)                                 1,263.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997
(USS millions)                                                                          Composition of total debt, 1996 (USS niillons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                              1,378      1,550
IBRD                                                                0         0                        F: 10
IDA                                                               157       212                                B- 157
Total debt service                                                   49        53
IBROD                                                              10         0                                       c 196
IDA                                            I.        .                    1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                                   141        84                                        D:13
Official creditors                                                186       192
Private creditors                                                   0         0
Foreign direct investment                                          54       189            E: 995
Portfolio equity                                                    0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                                        91       155      A - IBRD                       E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                                      76        64      B - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                                                0         0      C - IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flos                                            ..             76        64
Interest payments                                                   1          1
Net transfers                                                      76        63
World Bank                                                                                                                10/11/98
46



40°                                41'                               42'                                43'                               44°                                 45'                                46'
GEORGIA
To
Sooi  _*  = BUILT-UP URBAN AREA
>  .}  ss-t  RUSSIAN  FEDERATION                                                                                           0   SELECTED CITIES
(9      AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC CENTERS
Gages                 r""                                                                                                                                                                  *       N      ATION AL CAPITAL
1>  XJl  \- RIVERS
PicOOOS    _                                              W  .e'sssee                                                                                                                             GLACIER AREAS
43  GUdrJU   >y                                                                                                                                              - W  >  X    ,  rfi  N  MAIN ROADS
w i                                                                                             -s---t--s- __/   w  0 g_    _  O esbrl,RAILROADS
K-emo-Pso     J
ix               Tkcard'f  -@, p.  ............................. , ,, - - - -  AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES
,-     nrger    oh (-                                                    To Vj ,ndei,bY s'nT            -    -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Ii      .qt    ':             ,K nel1jo                                                                            'Af                  4         ,/: -W        5                    2 
D.-.
42'                                                                                         VcAko B.9d"'                                                                                                       -N                                          42
0     15    30    45    6,0   75 KILOMETERS              Ko6o l                                                                                                              t 1kh%t
4|'                          .B- r;tuERAIsO '   |                          |                    Age                                                                                                         G       '             I          To
UKRAINE  J-                           /AZKt -- -A    4h                                                                                                                   -                    QA         . ' '                teli' korX
K  RUSSIAN                                                                                                        kAI     ki
FEDERATIOIN
aEORGrA                                                     TURKEY                                                                      T.- '  Tof) ohe  B
_          _  _-4                <    ~~ ~ ~~~~zI  Tebondaris, colors, eoorniaotios cbusd anyoter ioomno                            ToAhtb           T  obi            onoio-  
Ares of Mop '..  AZER Nhs ep o-s p,,E   by the MIp N'MIgE UOit oA The eror jno oo o
Th.bs     erdu
22    TURKEY                \'                            shoe' os this osop do o-t insply,..a th. port of The Word Rook                                         A     M    N  IA
7                       1~~~~~ Group, ay judgnseot - the 1egnl ost.s of-ny tcrritnsy, or -y                                                                     ARME                                                    AZE RBAIJAN                           t
ySYRW'JARA             ISLA42M43'RER                                                                                                                                             45                                    46' 



