Document of
The World Bank                   n    i                 -
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3690-GUI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GUINEA
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION ANID PROMOTION PROJECT
March 22, 1982
Western Africa Projects Department
Industrial Development and Finance Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Syli is linked to the SDR at a rate of SDR 1 = Sylis 24.6853. The
official rate of conversion to US$ was US$1 = Sylis 21.35 as of October 1981.
ABBREVIATIONS
OCOFI      Organisation pour la Coordination Financiere de l'Industrie
IMPORTEX   State Importing Monopoly
ONP        Office National des Petites et Moyennes Entreprises
Min. SME   Ministry of Small and Medium Enterprises and Artisans
CNC        Conseil National du Credit
SME        Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises
PPF        Project Preparation Facility
SONACAG    Societe Nationale de Carreaux et de Granite
CNCIH      Credit National pour le Commerce, lIndustrie et l'Habitat
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GUINEA
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION AND PRLOMOTION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
I. THE SECTOR SETTING .........................................   1
A.  General .....................                                   1
B.  The Industrial Sector ..      .......................*  . .1
C. Publicly-Owned Industrial Enterprisesi - Structure and
Procedures   .............  * 0. 0 . .....I......... .  . ....... .  2
D.  Privately-Owned Industrial and Service Enterprises.             3
E.  Financial Sector ...................  .                         5
F.  Policy and Scope for Future Development       ..........        7
G.  Assessment of Industrial Policy and ';trategy                   8
H.  Industrial Problems .......... ...................... .  10
I. Relevance of the Project to Industrial Policy and
Problems ............................1...................  l
II.  THE PROJECT ................. ....................  13
A.  Project Formulation .................................... . .......... .  13
B.  Co-financing .........            ............   14
C.  Objectives of the Project ................................     14
D.  Project Description - General ...........................  14
E.  Rehabilitation of State-Owned Enterprises . .............. 15
F.  Feasibility Studies .......................... . ....          22
G.  Promotion of Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises.              23
H.  Assistance to Credit National .                                24
I.  Industrial Policy and Planning Assist:ance          .25
J.  Summary Project Costs and Financing              .25
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, RISKS AND JUSTI:FICATION ...........  27
A.  Implementation Responsibilities  ................. ........  27
B.  Credit National (CNCIH), Financial IiLtermediation .28
C.  Use of IDA Funds ...................               ,           29
D.    Procurement  .................  . ... I..........            31
E.  Disbursements ...........                 .     .     .    .  31
F.  Accounts and Project Reports  . ..          ........................ 32
G.  Project Risks ................................. . .  . .       32
H.  General Economic and Financial Justilication  ...              32
IV.  PRE-CONDITIONS, ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENrDATIONS ............  33
This report is based on the findings of a mission to Guinea in May/June
1981 by Messrs. Uche Mbanefo, Cherif Azi, and Bahadur Jetha, and Miss
Kathleen di Tullio.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1. The Financial Sector
2. List of Publicly-Owned Enterprises
3. Rehabilitation Financial and Economic Calculations
4. List of Privately-Owned Factories
5. Estimated SME Technical Assistance Costs
6.  Proposed Organigram of the Ministry of Small- and Medium-Scale
Enterprises (Min. SME)
7. Terms of Reference of Technical Assistance Staff Proposed for
Min. SME
8. List of Privately-Owned Enterprises Visited by the Appraisal
Mission
9. List of Loan Requests Received by Min. SME during 1980/81
10. Guinea Investment Code
11. Conditions for Granting of Privileges Under the Investment Code
12. Estimated IDA Disbursement Profile
13. Estimated IDA Disbursement Categories
14. Documents Available in Project Files



I. THE SECTOR SETTING
A.   General
1.01      An IBRD-prepared Economic Memorandum 1/ was discussed with the
Guinea Government in June 1981. Also, an IMF consultative mission visited
Guinea in June, and reported in July 1981. rhese reports provide ample
information on the general economic conditions in Guinea which will not be
repeated here.
B.   The Industrial Sector
1.02      Guinea's economy is agricultural, but foreign exchange earnings are
dominated by the mining industry. Bauxite reaserves are currently estimated at
about 6.5 billion tons (about 30% of the estt:Lmated world reserves), and
contributes 90% of export earnings and 20% of GDP. In addition to bauxite,
Guinea is also believed to have substantial deposits of iron ore, uranium and
diamonds, while prospects for petroleum finds are considered hopeful. This
project (and therefore this report), however, deals only with the manufac-
turing, service and financial sectors.
The Manufacturing and Service Sectors
1.03      With its 5 million population, rich agricultural potential, mineral
exports and potential, free education througt university, and relatively
skilled workers, Guinea has the necessary elements to justify a modest domestic
processing sector. The desirable size, structure, or content of such a sector
are questions which do not appear to have been addressed in any systematic
fashion in the past.  This project, therefore, includes technical assistance
for industrial policy formulation and planning in the Ministry of Industry to
begin to address such issues.
1.04      The formal manufacturing sector, mostly engaged in import substitu-
tion, consists essentially of some 38 state-owned enterprises (Annex 2)
and some 26 privately-owned factories (Annex 4). It employs about 7,500
persons, and contributes some 3% of GDP. Major sub-sectors include: food
and drink; plastics (shoes, raincoats, sheets, etc.); construction materials
and timber products; and the chemicals sub-sector.
1.05      The service and artisanal sector consists of numerous (mostly
privately-owned) enterprises ranging in capital size from a few syli to
several million syli, and in employment from one or two persons to more
than 50. This sector, which is not well-documented, is, nevertheless, be-
lieved to employ many more people than the formal manufacturing sector. A
recent Government census of private enterprises and artisans in the Conakry
Region reveals that there were about 700 privately-owned enterprises of this
class in that Region alone, employing about 4,000 persons, with total invest-
ment of about 300 million syli.
1/   Report No. 3150-GUI.



-2
C.   Publicly-Owned Industrial Enterprises - Structure and Procedures
1.06      When the French left Guinea after independence, they took with
them practically all the technological and administrative infrastructure
embodied in their colonial civil servants. One of Government's responses
to this situation was to husband carefully what little technological and
administrative expertise it could attract to Guinea, and centralize it in the
public sector. This factor, coupled with the socialist orientation of Govern-
ment policy, led to the creation of a large number of public enterprises,
centralization of control and management, and relative neglect of the private
sector.
1.07      The Party formulates industrial policy, the Government (President
and Ministers) articulates it; the Ministry of Industry, through its specialist
technical divisions (e.g. agro-industries, mining, etc.) as well as through
OCOFI, implements the policy. Each State-owned factory has its own General
Manager and Financial Manager, both appointed by the Head of State, an account-
ing system run by a Guinean qualified accountant, and a full complement of
technical and production personnel. Until the summer of 1981, all State-owned
industrial enterprises were centrally administered by a holding company -- the
"Organisation pour la Coordination Financiere de l'Industrie" (OCOFI) -- whose
abolition in 1981 leaves all these enterprises free for the first time to
manage their own finances.
1.08      Until 1981, Guinea's State-owned enterprises have been subject to a
very comprehensive system of controls designed mainly with the intention of
preventing unauthorized deviations from a pre-determined plan. In addition
to OCOFI, which had to approve all borrowings and procurements of each indus-
trial enterprise, all procurements involving imports must also pass through
IMPORTEX--the state import monopoly organization, as well as the Bank for
external commerce; all labor is sent by the Ministry of Labor; all marketing
is done through a State marketing organization. In addition, all enterprise
accounts are audited annually by the Ministry of Internal Control, which
reports to the National Economic Council. The latter reviews annually:
-    the objectives established 12 months earlier for each enterprise;
-    the extent to which the enterprise has achieved those objectives;
-    the specific obstacles encountered by the enterprise during the
year;
-    the objectives for the next 12 months and what the enterprise
must do to achieve them.
1.09      A basic public sector problem in Guinea has been that the above
controls have proved so restrictive that, by strangling management initiative
and occasioning long delays, they have considerably reduced the sector's
efficiency and performance. A major objective of this project, therefore,
(greatly advanced by the recent abolition of OCOFI) is to demonstrate (using



- 3 -
the four enterprises to be rehabilitated) that a conversion of some of
these controls to monitoring functions can i.prove the sector's efficiency
without adversely affecting macro-economic management (See Chapter II, para-
graphs 2.26 and 2.27).
1.10      About 38 state-owned factories were set up between 1958 and 1972,
most of them as gifts from Eastern Block countries, with an industrial
policy generally no more sharply-focussed than the pursuit of import-sub-
stitution. These factories fulfill some important policy objectives apart
from production of goods, notably provision cf off-farm employment for many
persons graduating annually from the University, and geographical dispersion
of industry to promote more even regional development.
1.11      The public sector enterprises' performance has deteriorated through-
out the 70s. Operating with old and worn out equipment due to lack of spare
parts, irregularly supplied with raw material and power, their production
level has steadily decreased over the years. With few exceptions, they
operate at 10 to 30% of capacity, when operations are not completely stopped.
1.12      Since 1975 the Government has been engaged in the rehabilitation of
existing facilities. Progress has been slow because of lack of external
financing for fixed asset renewals, and import of essential inputs. Yet the
rehabilitation of economically and financially viable enterprises appears
desirable for three reasons. Firstly, some of the enterprises can earn or
save significant amounts of foreign exchange, thus breaking the vicious circle
in which they are trapped: foreign exchange is a necessary input to generate
foreign exchange earnings. Secondly, for all of them the rehabilitation
will maintain - and in some cases create - a significant number of jobs.
Thirdly, since the Government seems willing to reassess its industrial poli-
cies, the rehabilitation project could, through localized and successful
reforms, constitute an example for more ambitious ones in the Guinean manage-
ment system of the public sector enterprises.
1.13      Another major Government public sector policy objective being
assisted through this project (apart from improving public sector efficiency)
is to introduce private ownership into as many public enterprises as possible,
as a means of gaining access to additional foreign capital, technology, and
management. Thus, Government would invite the foreign suppliers to partici-
pate in the equity of the enterprises to be rehabilitated. Also, the Ministry
of Urbanism and the Ministry of Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SME) (as
official representative of the private sector) have agreed to form the first
joint-venture company between Government and private Guineans. The company
will operate sand and gravel quarries, an operation which could be financed
through the SME line of credit, subject to a satisfactory feasibility study.
D.   Privately-Owned Industrial and Service Enterprises
1.14      Despite official neglect, or even discouragement (including the
ban on private retailing, from 1975 to 1977), there have always been enough
private factories (Annex 4), bakeries, restaurants, carpenters, tailors, etc.,
for the private sector to constitute an important economic sector in Guinea.



-4-
Nevertheless, official emphasis on public ownership and development during
most of the last 20 years has meant, at best, an etiolation of private sector
growth.
1.15      A period of liberal credit to the private sector immediately after
independence was followed by a total ban on all bank lending to the private
industrial and service sectors between 1974 and 1981. Throughout that period,
Government controlled all imports of industrial inputs including fuel, fixed
the prices of all inputs and outputs, and marketed all industrial output of
the private sector. Since 1978, however, the Government has been signalling
its readiness to support a rehabilitation of the private sector, including
extension of credit (which has yet to be implemented), and provision of
state-financed technical assistance to privately-owned enterprises. In
pursuit of this new policy, Government in 1980 created the Office National
de Promotion des Petites et Moyennes Entreprises (ONP), which, in 1981, was
elevated to the status of a full Ministry of Small- and Medium-Scale Enter-
prises (Min SME).
1.16      As of April 1981, the Min. SME had 40 staff members.  In general,
staff members have good educational backgrounds (typically University degrees),
and many have experience in their technical fields in public enterprises. A
small group who demonstrates capability of taking on management positions is
emerging and with the technical advisors provided in the project should form
the backbone of the department implementing policies and offering technical
services to encourage growth of private sector enterprise.
Private Sector Demand for Credit
1.17      Government official support of private enterprises dates only from
1980 and local banks have not yet started lending to them. There is therefore
substantial pent-up demand for funds to modernize, expand or invest in new
projects. It is still too early to put parameters on the demand for credit,
but the early applicants are representative of the kinds of projects that
entrepreneurs are proposing. In 1980 and -81 the Min SME received credit
applications from private sector enterprises for a total of US$30 million in
foreign exchange. The 45 projects are listed in Annex 9. They cover a broad
range of activities and vary greatly in size of investment, as shown below.
Fully half of the number of applications is for bakeries. They are relatively
small investments, each averaging about $112,000 in foreign exchange. At the
other extreme are new projects in agro-industrial food processing sectors,
soft drinks, and chemical (plastic) products where the average loan applica-
tion is for US$5.5 million. Overall, for all activities, 50% of the applica-
tions are for loans not exceeding US$100,000 with another 30% for loans not
exceeding US$0.5 million as can be seen in the table below.



Demand for Credit in Foreign Exchange Only
Type of Projects         Average Loan Size (US$'OOO)
No. of         Rehab./                              Above
Projects  New  Expan.    0-100  101-500  501-1000  3000
Bakeries                        24      2    22         16         8
Food Processing & Beverages    3        3                                            3
Clothing & Textiles              3      1      2         2                  1
Leather, Wood & Paper Prod.    4        1      3         2         2
Chemical Products                3      2      1                            2        1
Construction Materials           2      2                          2
Metal Fabrication                2             2                   1         1
Services (Inc. Ice Making)      4       2     2          2         1        1
Total Number of Projects        45     13    32         22        14        5        4
Total Amount US$'000                                 1,735    3,286    3,801  21,760
Average Loan Amount                                     80       235      760   5,500
E.   Financial Sector
Background
1.18      A member of the French West African monetary community at the time
of its independence in 1958, Guinea withdrew from the Franc Zone two years
later to establish its own currency, the Guinean Franc, and its own banking
system. In the initial phase, all banking functions in the country (central
and commercial) were directly carried out by Guinea's first central bank.
Subsequently, however, sector specialized banks were established to discharge
the Central Bank's retail banking activities. Guinea's financial system,
100% state-owned, currently consists of the Central Bank, five specialized
banks, and a national insurance company (see Annex 1). All these institutions
are still treated as part of the Government machinery rather than as indepen-
dent financial institutions.
The Currency
1.19      Created at par vis-a-vis the CFA Franc in 1960, the Guinean Franc
was changed to Syli in 1972 at an official value of 10 Guinean Francs to a
Syli. In August 1975, the Syli became linked to SDRs at a parity of Syli
24.6853 to one SDR. The currency is non-convertible and its free market value
is well below the official value of approximately 20 Sylis to one US dollar.



-6-
Credit Policies
1.20      In line with policies pursued for other sectors of the economy,
all decisions concerning credit in Guinea are centrally planned. Determina-
tion of interest rates, global credit ceilings, and sectoral credit alloca-
tion, is primarily made by the Conseil National du Credit (CNC). The Central
Bank, acting as executing agency of CNC, manages the credit ceilings, deter-
mines bank specific allocations and authorizes individual credits. Moreover,
since all credit resources available in individual banks, including their
profits and depreciation, are pooled into one national credit fund managed by
the Central Bank, the control of the Central Bank over credit in Guinea is
total. Resource needs of deficit banks are primarily satisfied by advances
from surplus banks, but advances from the Central Bank are also available to
the banks. In early years, the banking system apparently had an unlimited and
automatic access to Central Bank advances but in recent years, the Central
Bank appears to have substantially restricted this facility, even though
Government continued to finance public enterprises.
Credit Distribution
1.21      Most investment projects in Guinea have been, and are still,
financed directly by the state from external sources. As a result, the major
share of domestic credit provided by the banking system is short term finan-
cing, primarily seasonal credit needs of large state sectoral companies.
In recent years, due to mounting financial difficulties of many of these
companies, an increasing portion of past unpaid short term credit has been
consolidated into medium term credit. Virtually no long term credits are
currently being made by the banking system in Guinea.
1.22      The private sector has not had access to credits from the banks in
recent years. Apparently, the rate of default on private credits in earlier
years was so great that the government decided to stop any lending to the
sector in the late sixties. As a result, almost 98% of the banks outstanding
credit today finances the public sector enterprises.
Organization and Operating Policies
1.23      A special feature of the banking system in Guinea, apart from
its high degree of sectoral specialization, is the high degree of control
exercised by the Central Bank over the activities of individual banks.
Although member banks are all financially autonomous institutions, they have
in fact little operational autonomy. All policy and most operational deci-
sions, including all credit approvals, are made by a Board and Management
Committee common to all banks including the Central Bank. The governor of the
Central Bank, President of both of these bodies, the Vice-Governor, and the
directors of individual banks, constitute the Committee, while the Board
comprises some key government officials in addition to the above committee
members. Through this structure, and also because the Central Bank in Guinea
enjoys an absolute monopoly over all credit resources in the country, indivi-
dual banks operate more like specialized branches of the Central Bank than as
autonomous banks.



-7-
Interest Rates
1.24     Until August, 1981, interest rates inI Guinea had remained unchanged
since 1967 when, by a presidential decree, thEy were set at 5.5% for all long
term loans, 4% for medium-term loans, 5.5% for short-term loans to industry
and at 7.5% for short-term loans to commercial enterprises. Interest paid
on deposits varied from 2.5% on sight deposits of Syli 200,000 and more to
3.5% on term deposits of 5 years but no interest was paid on small deposits.
Lending rates were increased in August 1981 to between 10% and 1-4%, and
deposit rates to between 4% and 7%, which the Association considers reason-
able at this time, given an annual inflation rate of about 3.7%; also a
considerable (almost 100%) improvement on the rates applied until now.
Prospects
1.25      There is some evidence that in line with its recent policy of
encouraging the private sector, the government has begun to relax its restric-
tions on credit to Private firms and individuals. At the same time, there
appears to be a recognition of the need to review the structure and policies
of the financial sector institutions. A commission, comprising the Governor
of the Central Bank and directors of primary tanks, recently looked into these
matters, and recommended a series of measures designed to improve operations,
mobilise domestic savings, and maximise foreign exchange earnings. The com-
mission, while recommending greater autonomy for State-owned enterprises, was
completely silent as regards autonomy for the banks themselves. Also, while
acknowledging the need to resume lending to both private and public enter-
prises, the commission left it up to the Council of Ministers to determine the
rules and policies that should govern such lerding, limiting its own specific
recommendations on this point to the need to strengthen the Banks' debt
recovery capabilities.
F.   Policy and Scope for Future Development
1.26      A recent Guinea Government submissicn to the United Nations Con-
ference on less developed countries (summarized below) sets out the Govern-
ment's industrial policy objectives and strategy. Also, since its decision
to rehabilitate both the public and the private sectors, government, in
stating overall industrial policy objectives, no longer distinguishes clearly
between public sector and private sector objectives. The overall objective is
to achieve an annual growth rate of 10% in industrial output by 1990.
1.27      Government strategy for achieving that growth includes:
-    a focus on agro-industries (cotton development; sugar plantation
and mill; tomato, fruit, fruit juice and fish canning; agricultural
and marketing improvements);
-    import-substitution industries (textiles, plastics, leather,
building materials, tools, utensils, bicycles, mopeds, phar-
maceuticals and a foundry);



- 8-
-    agricultural support industries (natural and chemical fertilizers,
agricultural equipment);
-    industries based on minerals (aluminum foundry, kitchen utensils
and fittings);
-    development of production, management and marketing methods for
public, private, and mixed enterprises;
-    reorganization, supply and increased productivity of existing
enterprises;
-    development of regional specialization on the basis of aluminum
industry and hydro-electric power.
1.28      In support of its new policy towards the private sector, Govern-
ment has promulgated an Investment Code (Annex 10) prescribing specific
privileges for new investors in a wide field of industrial activity. It has
also promulgated a special code to encourage Guineans living abroad to repa-
triate and invest their foreign exchange in Guinea. IDA staff have reviewed
both documents and found them generally satisfactory. The main weakness of
the Investment Code is that its high qualifying threshold for Code privileges
would exclude most Guinean SMEs. Government agreed during negotiations to
take steps not later than June 30, 1982, to ensure that no enterprise is
excluded from Investment Code privileges purely on grounds of total invest-
ments. Work on industrial sector policy to be financed under the proposed
project, and support from ongoing sector work by the Bank would enable the
Government to establish a more operational strategy for industrial development
over the next few years. It is in this context that a more detailed scrutiny
of the Investment Code would be appropriate. Meanwhile, many private sector
enterprises (foreign and local) have sought approval to establish under the
Investment Code privileges. The indicative types of industry being promoted
through grant of such privileges, and which will continue under the project,
are listed in the "Conditions d'Agreement" (Annex II). The three major
sectors are food and drink, mechanical and chemical manufacture, and building
materials.
G. Assessment of Industrial Policy and Strategy
1.29      The main weakness of the policy and strategy described in paragraphs
1.26 to 1.28 above is that they sound more like a catalogue of desirable goals
than realistic objectives based on adequate information, resources, or plan-
ning. There appears to be, for example, an absence of information on the
size, resource requirements, and contributions of the private industrial
sector. Also, the chronic lack of foreign exchange suggests an unrealistically
large industrial sector, given current exports and exchange rates, yet the
Government's apparent efforts to rehabilitate virtually all old state-owned
industries, create new ones, and at the same time promote private enterprises
suggest a failure to recognize the parameters of the industrial sector which
can be sustained in the short, medium and long term.



- 9 -
1.30      The logical approach described in paragraph 1.29 above presupposes
the existence of adequate information on the resource demand and supply
factors at work in the sector, as well as the policy formulation and planning
capacity necessary to design and implement a realistic industrial development
plan.
1.31      Neither such information nor the planning capability seems to exist
in Guinea now. Consequently, the primary focus of Government and IDA indus-
trial sector work during the next three years will be first, to create the
capability for industrial sector information gathering and analysis; second,
to define industrial objectives that are attainable; and third, to prepare
detailed plans (including industrial sector resource demand and supply projec-
tions) to achieve the objectives.
1.32      The analysis of economic aggregates is only a part of the important
industrial sector work to be done in Guinea. Equally important, and much more
visible, is the great need to create executive capability to implement the
far-reaching changes in policy and economic management style recently embraced
by Government. The more independent state enterprises; the Banks undertaking
new forms of lending; the newly-created SME Ministry--all collectively repre-
sent an unusually large need for industrial sector institution building, now
and for several years to come. Indeed, it will be institutional and human
resource capacity that will limit the extent to which the benefits of these
policy changes are realized.
1.33      The first step in this sector work started during preparation of
this project, when IDA staff assisted the Government in developing criteria
for sub-project selection, especially for the public sector rehabilitation
component (see para. 1.41). The next step wouLd involve the industrial
planning technical assistance to be provided through this project. This would
be followed by industrial sector information gaithering and analysis, and the
planning of future industrial development. Parallel with such sector work, the
Government, with IDA and other external assistance, would undertake necessary
institution building--creating the statutory anid legal framework for new
institutions, and training technical and managerial staff locally and abroad.
1.34      The short-term (3 to 4 years) sector objectives, reflected in this
project, are, therefore, to initiate -industriaL sector information gathering
and analysis; improve the efficiency of public sector enterprises; and begin
the shift of the industrial economy from the public to the private sector. In
the longer run, through technical assistance, LI training, and further develop-
ment of the private sector, possibly through repeater projects, the country
should, perhaps ten years from now, have:
-    a much more realistic and sharply focussed industrial plan
and strategy than at present;
1/   IDA is currently preparing a technical assistance project which, along
with other measures, would contribute towards this end.



- 10 -
-    a much better awareness of the total consequences of the size
and structure of industrial sector it is aiming to establish;
-    stronger banking and similar institutions which service the
industrial sector;
-    a major structural alteration of the industrial sector from
public sector to private sector dominance;
-    a much more efficient industrial sector than at present.
H.   Industrial Problems
1.35      Guinea's major industrial problems can be classified into three main
categories: technical; managerial and administrative; and macro-economic.
The technical problems include:
-    The severe lack of technological know-how, ubiquitous all over
Africa; and
-    the severe lack of infrastructure, particularly power, causing
many factories to be closed many days in the year.
1.36      Management and Administrative problems include:
-    The monopoly of all rights to import by the state-owned company
IMPORTEX: this means that enterprises are dependent on IMPORTEX
for acquiring all imported raw materials, and occasions considerable
delays, sometimes up to 6 to 12 months.
-    The need for all state owned enterprises to sell all their products
at fixed prices to state marketing monopolies reduces the managers'
ability to increase profitability of their units through more
efficient marketing, especially since each marketing outlet typi-
cally handles the output of many factories. Yet this situation
cannot be changed until after the newly independent enterprises have
built up their capabilities in this and other areas of management.
-    A decade of operating in a severe shortage economy has tended to
breed in many state-enterprise managers a management style based not
on forward planning, but on crisis management and improvisation.
For example, raw material inventories are rare and spares inventories
virtually non-existent. A manager who anticipates the need for a
spare part next month has to line up behind many managers whose
machines have already broken down, so he typically does not attempt
to acquire the spare part before the break-down occurs.
1.37      Macro-economic problems include the severe shortage of foreign
exchange needed to import fuel, raw materials and spares; the Government's
policy until very recently of officially fixing prices of all items (including



- 11 -
raw materials, fuel, spares, intermediate and finished goods) passing through
official (i.e. non-smuggled) channels in Guinea. Also, the official over-
valuation of the Guinean currency implies a subsidy to the manufacturers which
is now passed on to the consumers, but which ,as in many other developing
countries) severely distorts the official prices of inputs and outputs as
compared with developed countries, and as compared with inputs and outputs
which have no access to official sources of foreign exchange.
1.38      How the project design will attempt to address the above problems is
described in Section I below.
I.   Relevance of the Project to Industrial Policy and Problems
1.39      Given the difficulties described above, and the limited financing
and managerial experience available, the stral:egy described in paragraph 1.27
appears too ambitious. On the other hand, industrial output is currently so
low that achieving a 10% rate of increase thereof (i.e. the overall objective)
may not be too difficult.
1.40      The project described in this report, consisting of rehabilitation
of four state-owned industrial units (two agro-industrial and two concerned
with building materials), and promotion of privately-owned industrial enter-
prises, fits neatly into the strategy described in paragraphs 1.26 and 1.27.
1.41      The Project is also, in many respects, a pilot scheme, to demon-
strate that industrial enterprises, freed fromn most of the obstacles described
in paragraph 1.36, are likely to function more efficiently. In addition, the
project assumes that there is no point in establishing industries (public or
private) unless Guinea can keep them regularly supplied with raw materials and
energy; that the theoretical industrial capacity existing in the recent past
was not substainable in the long run; that, for these reasons Government needs
to establish criteria for selecting which industries to rehabilitate or
develop; and that, until further notice, an important criterion should be the
ability of the industry to earn or save foreign exchange.
1.42      Government is in general agreement with these principles which
guided the Bank to select for rehabilitation only four of the twelve indust-
ries originally suggested by the Government. At least two of the industries
(essences and quinine) export most of their output; all but one depend wholly
on local raw materials, and the sole exceptiorL is nevertheless partially
dependent on domestic raw materials; two support the construction industry so
essential to further economic development.
1.43      In addition, the project introduces, for the first time, some
machinery to coordinate the industrial demands and contributions of both the
public and the private sectors. The project (Chapter II) will address the
industrial problems discussed in para 1.35 to 1.37 in the manner described
below.



- 12 -
1.44      The management and administrative problems (para 1.36) cause in-
efficiency mostly by causing delays in implementing decisions already taken by
factory management (especially in purchasing). Detailed measures to be
introduced through this project (Chapter II) and IDA's standard procurement
procedures, including direct payment of foreign suppliers, will avoid most of
the delays. In addition, Government has recently passed a decree freeing all
State enterprises from control by OCOFI--one of the main sources of delay.
1.45      The technical problems (para. 1.35) of inadequate technology will be
addressed through reliance on internationally recruited technical assistance, or
foreign partnership where possible, coupled with training of Guinean managers
and officials both in Guinea and abroad. The project design also provides as
much energy independence as possible for project activities, through the
financing of initial working capital, and independent electricity generation
capacity.
1.46      Macro-economic problems (para. 1.37), and especially exchange rate
and domestic pricing issues, affect all sectors of the economy, and are,
therefore, central to the current discussions between the Guinean Government,
IMF and IDA. The sensitivity and breadth of these issues are such that they
should be pursued in the context of that dialogue, but the proposed project
would introduce more orderly industrial planning and analysis of industrial
constraints, including measures to ensure satisfactory economic evaluation of
proposed investments.
1.47      Apart from its decision to emphasize the private sector and de-
emphasize public involvement in production and distribution, including what
may be the only Government Ministry in Africa devoted exclusively to the
promotion of private sector small, medium and artisanal enterprises, Govern-
ment has, in the few months since the field appraisal of this project, taken
the following additional measures to remove or reduce price and other economic
distortions:
- Prices of all but state-owned enterprise output and a few essential
commodities (e.g., pharmaceuticals, rice, gasoline,, cement) have been
freed from all official control, and are now to be determined by free
market forces;
- Private enterpreneurs are free to acquire foreign exchange from any
source and at any price and to use it in their business. Indeed this
is still practically the only way private entrepreneurs can obtain
foreign exchange in Guinea;
- Interest rates have been doubled;
-  State-owned enterprises have been freed from control by state holding
companies, and are now largely free to manage themselves under
terms the details of which are yet to be worked out;
- Banks have been authorized to finance private sector enterprises,
although lending has not yet started (para. 1.25); and
- The Government no longer guarantees employment to all school-leavers.



- 13 -
1.48      The Government-s willingness to take such far-reaching and effi-
ciency-promoting policy measures within such a short time reflects a clear
determination to improve economic management along the lines so far suggested
by the IMF and IDA. With the application of appropriate shadow pricing in
sub-project selection, the passing on of the foreign exchange risk to sub-
borrowers and the market freedom recently announced by Government, the project
would not exacerbate present distortions resu:Lting from the official over-
valuation of the currency. Individuals and ot:her project participants would
derive real and measurable benefits from the project.
1.49      At the same time, the Government's efforts at one of the most
difficult and most desirable structural adjusl:ments being attempted in Africa
in recent years deserve strong support. The provision of essential foreign
exchange to the selected public enterprises deserves support because these
enterprises either earn foreign exchange or provide essential building mater-
ials, while the terms of the proposed rehabilitation would make the enterprises
a vanguard for desirable change in the managemient style of public enterprises
in Guinea.
1.50      As for the promotion of private sector enterprises, the technical
assistance being provided through the project would help the Government
in planning and ensuring the recurrent foreign exchange needs of that sector,
while the foreign exchange this project would provide for private sector
needs would prove an indispensable lubricant in shifting the Guinean economy
from public sector domination to private sectcor orientation.
II. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Formulation
2.01      The project originates from a request by the President of Guinea to
the President of IDA in late 1979 for assistance in rehabilitating state-owned
industrial enterprises, and in promoting privately-owned small and medium
scale enterprises (SMEs). Following that request, several IDA missions have
studied Guinea-s industrial and financial sectors and identified this project.
Preparation included PPF financing for feasibility studies conducted by
internationally-recruited consultants (available in project files).
2.02      Of the twelve state-owned enterprises originally suggested by the
Government for rehabilitation, the consultants studied six, selected mainly on
the criteria of export earnings potential, or import savings through the local
production of essential building materials. Based on the financial and
economic viability projected in these feasibility studies, and their review by
IDA, only four of the six state-owned enterprises studied have been included
for rehabilitation through this project.



- 14 -
2.03      In the private sector, the preparatory work has consisted mainly
of assisting the government, through its newly-created Ministry of Small and
Medium Scale Enterprises (Min. SME), to create both the policy and the insti-
tutional framework necessary for the first serious effort in many years
to increase the productivity of the non-farm private sector in Guinea. The
private sector component of the project will continue the creation of this
framework, but will move on to provide actual technical and financial assis-
tance to the private sector.
B.   Co-financing
2.04      During preparation of the project Government requested IDA to play a
co-ordinating role in identifying a program of external aid to the industrial
sector. The project described in the following paragraphs is the result of
that effort. While each of the donors in the project is financing specific
needs, the individual parts contribute to a coherent effort to promote growth
in the sector. However, in Annex 5, and where appropriate in the text, donor
contributions are shown separately.
C.   Objectives of The Project
2.05      The various objectives of this project have been alluded to in
various parts of Chapter I, (especially paragraph 1.34) and may be summarized
below as:
-    Creation of industrial sector policy formulation and planning
capability in the Ministry of Indusry.
-    Support for Government's new policy of shifting some of the respon-
sibility for national production, import substitution, and employ-
ment creation, from the public to the private sector.
-    Improvement of the performance of public sector industrial enter-
prises through selective rehabilitation coupled with relaxation of
Government controls, and thereby furthering their objectives of
foreign exchange earnings (or savings), employment creation, and
regional development.
D.   Project Description - General
2.06      The project consists of:
(a) complete rehabilitation of four state-owned enterprises through the
provision of equipment, civil works, imported materials, engineering,
technical assistance and training;
(b) studies of the feasibility of two other state enterprises (slates
and ornamental stones);



- 15 -
(c)  promotion of private sector enterprises through the provision of
term credit to them, and the support with equipment, technical
assistance, training and minor expansion of the office building of
the Ministry of Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (Min. SME);
(d) provision of foreign exchange finanicing, technical assistance, and
training, to Credit National pour le Commerce, l'Industrie, et
I'Habitat, a Guinean bank, to enable it to act as the local financial
intermediary for (a) and (c) above;
(e) three man-years of consultancy for the Government of Guinea, to
assist with the formulation of industrial policy and strategy,
co-ordination of public and private sector industrial development,
and industrial planning; and
(f) financing for the foreign costs of the external audit of all
IDA funding for the project.
E.   Rehabilitation of State-Owned Enterprises (Annex 3)
2.07      A full history and description of the four state-owned enterprises
to be rehabilitated, the detailed rehabilitation program, and detailed finan-
cial and economic analysis of each of the enterprises (including sensitivity
analyses) are in the feasibility studies (para. 2.01). A brief summary of those
descriptions and analyses is presented in this chapter. Annex 3 presents the
definitive financial and economic calculations and their basic assumptions.
(i) Station Autonome de Seredou (Quinine plantation and factory) Established
in 1943
2.08      The 250 ha plantation was developed mostly between 1943 and 1954.
The 12.5 ton factory was built in 1954. Since then, due to lack of foreign
exchange to import fertilizers, spares and energy, only 120 ha of the planta-
tion remain, and factory capacity is down to 2.5 tons a year. The proposed
rehabilitation includes only the Cinchona tree plantation and the factory.
Quinine is a net foreign exchange earner and its use in soft drinks and as an
anti-arrhythmic for heart diseases is increasing.
2.09      The objective of the agricultural rehabilitation is to restore
the plantation to its original size as far as possible. This would require a
ten-year program involving: i) seeding new Cinchona trees in nurseries; ii)
clearing 300 ha of land (the 250 ha of the existing plantation plus 50 ha of
additional land around the plantation), and soil preparation and fertilizer
application at a rate of 30 ha./year; iii) planting new Cinchona trees at the
same rate and maintaining the plantation with appropriate pesticides and
agricultural work. This project will finance the equipment and all necessary
inputs, road and other infra-structure for the first 3 years of the program.
However, Cinchona trees take 8 to 10 years to mature, with the consequence
that many of the plantation "operating" costs are really investment costs to
develop the plantation. Additional net costs from years 4 to 10 are estimated
al US$2.6 million, most of it needed to expand the factory from 12.5 tons
output to 22.5 tons annually around year 10 (see below).



- 16 -
2.10      Factory rehabilitation is designed to restore the factory to its
original 12.5 ton/year capacity through i) restoration of the factory building
and some equipment which need only new parts ii) replacement of all obsolete
or unrepairable equipment, iii) furnishing of laboratory equipment and basic
mechanical tools to allow manufacture of basic spares.
2.11      Base costs for rehabilitating Seredou are estimated as follows:
Foreign     Local      Total
…-------US$  o000 …
Feasibility Studies (PPF)                    122         -         122
Plantation costs                             368        424        792
Factory costs                                952        310      1,262
Roads and housing                          1,055        575      1,630
Office equipment and vehicles                280         -         280
Training                                     381         -         381
Project management                           260         -         260
Working capital                              387         28        415
Total                            3,805       1,37      5,142
2.12      The need to develop the plantation over a 10-year period precludes
any "profit" in the normal sense for Seredou at least during the next 7 years.
Indeed assurances were obtained at negotiations that additional financing
(currently estimated at about US$2 million equivalent) would be forthcoming
from the Government after the commitment period of this project to permit
the continued plantation development, as described in paragraph 2.09 above.
Starting from about year 8, however, Seredou should under the assumption in
Annex 3 earn a net profit before tax averaging in excess of US$1.5 million
annually through the year 2000. To ensure full capacity production and
profits almost indefinitely, all up-rooted acreages should be immediately
replanted. The cost of all necessary additional investments have been included
in calculating a financial rate of return (IRR) of about 15%, and an economic
rate of return (ERR) of 21% over 20 years. Seredou will also earn enough
foreign exchange to repay all its foreign exchange investments by Year 10, to
exceed its total foreign exchange expenditures in present value terms, and
accumulate to over US$38 million in 20 years. It will also restore its old
employment and create 70 to 90 new permanent rural jobs.
(ii) SIPAR - Labe (Manufacture of Essential Oils and Eau de Cologne First
Established in 1920)
2.13      SIPAR's 260 ha plantation was developed in the late 1920s.  The
factory and much of its equipment still date back to the 1930s. For reasons
similar to those obtaining in Seredou, SIPAR now has only 150 ha of rather
poor quality plantations, and its factory operates only sporadically. On the
world market, SIPAR products enjoy a competitive advantage for several reasons.
Firstly, SIPAR is the only producer in the world of a particular high-quality



- 17 -
essential oil: essence of Karo Karounde. Secondly, due to an artisanal orange
peeling process, the essence of orange produced by SIPAR is unique, and sells
at a price four to eight times higher than ordinary essences. In addition,
the feasibility study has identified the possibility of producing other
essential oils from plants and flowers existing in the Labe region or adap-
table to its climate.
2.14      Rehabilitation of the plantation is designed to restore it to
approximately 200 ha, and will include: (i) resuming full care of the 52 ha
(out of the 150 existing now) of the plantation which will be maintained; (ii)
providing the minimum care to the 98 ha which will be gradually rooted up and
replaced, in 10 years, by a new plantation; (iii) plantation during the same
period of time of 62 additional ha. to restore 212 ha of plantation.
2.15      The factory, too, would be restored, as nearly as possible, to
its original state and capacity--8.5 tons of flowers or peels a day, in the
extraction process and 300 tons of products a year in the perfume workshop.
2.16      Base cost for the rehabilitation is estimated as follows:
Foreign Costs    Local Costs    Total
Feasibility Studies (PPF)                        107               -            107
Plantation Costs                                 382               25           407
Factory Costs                                    518               30           548
Technical Assistance and Training                324               -            324
Vehicles                                          95               -             95
Housing                                          119               60           179
Project Management                               260                -           260
1,805              115         1,920
144               71          215
Working Capital                            1,949              186         2,135
2.17      The rehabilitated enterprise is expected to generate net profits
before tax increasing from US$0.2 million in year 2 to US$1.5 million in year
15; net cash flows after loan service increasing from US$ 0.3 million in year
2 to US$1.5 million in year 15; and net foreign exchange earnings increasing
from US$0.1 million in year 3 to US$0.7 million in year 15. The project would
also yield a financial rate of return of 33% and an economic rate of return of
13% over 15 years. However, because (as in the case of Seredou) the maturity
of the plantation lags somewhat behind the factory rehabilitation, assurances
were obtained from Government that SIPAR capital structure and onlending
terms would reflect the financial needs of tha project, and be acceptable to
IDA.
(iii) SONACAG Granite Quarry (Opened in the aarly 1960s)
2.18      After years of managing with inadequate machinery and too few
spares, the production of the old quarry in Maneah fell from 59,000 m3 in
1975 to 16,000 m3 in 1980. The projected demaad for gravel shows that the



- 18 -
Conakry area will need at least 100,000 m3/year (increasing to 200,000 m3 in
1984) for constructions including the road restorations being studied by the
Highways Department of the Bank. The rehabilitation of this quarry to produce
about 100,000 m3 a year will provide the construction sector with an indi-
spensable input to its activity.
2.19      The feasibility study proposed two acceptable alternative sites for
the new granite quarries, Maneah and Kouriya. The ease of Kouriya's exploi-
tation and its relatively bigger reserves are counterbalanced by two incon-
veniences: (i) Kouriya is 7-8 miles farther from Conakry than M4aneah, (ii) it
would need the construction of a 4-mile road from the main road to the site
itself. Tests (the costs of which are included in the project) of the ease of
quarrying in Maneah will be conducted before a decision to launch the full
quarrying operation in Maneah rather than Kouriya. The rehabilitation will
replace practically all the equipment of the quarry and the rock crushing
plant. They consist mainly of a drilling operation, a transportation system
for the rock, primary and secondary crushing operation and jig workshop. The
rehabilitation will furnish also all the auxiliary equipment and the infra-
structure needs for normal operation of the quarry. Technical assistance will
help to organize the production.
2.20      Base costs for rehabilitating the quarry are estimated as follows:
Foreign      Local       Total
…----------US$' 000-…--
Initial Expenses (PPF Studies)                  155          -          155
Equipment (including transport and            1,245           33      1,278
installation )
Building and Civil Work                         545          285        830
Engineering                                     175           -         175
Technical Assistance                            190          -          190
Project Management                              160          -          160
2,470         318       2,788
Working Capital                                 308           49        357
Total                                   2,778          367       3,145
2.21      Under the assumptions in Annex 3, the project is expected to
generate net profits before tax increasing from about Syli 0.3 million in year
2 to Syli 2.5 million in year 10, and sizeable net cash flows after loan
service, except in years 6, 7, and 10, when sizeable equipment replacements
are anticipated. It is also expected to result in a financial rate of return
of 21% and an economic rate of return of 33% over 10 years. At 250 Syli/ton,
Guinea's granite is seriously under-priced in comparison with both neighboring
countries' prices and the costs of production in Guinea. Accordingly, assur-
ances were obtained from Government that the quarry's selling price would be
sufficient to satisfy IDA that the quarry would recover all quarrying costs,
service all its debts, and yield a financial rate of return of not less than



- 19 -
10% a year. Detailed measures to ensure this were discussed between IDA
and the Government during negotiations. Assurances were also obtained that
Government would provide the financing for necessary equipment replacements
anticipated in years 6, 7, and 10.
(iv) SONACAG - Cement-based Floor Tile Factory (Built in Matoto in 1964)
2.22      This plant was originally equipped with second-hand equipment.
Normal wear and tear, coupled with inadequate energy and spares, has reduced
production by 1980 to only 10% of installed capacity. Quality of output also
became unacceptable. Just as for the granite quarry, the tile factory will
fulfill a need already evident in the construction sector. The demand for the
next few years is estimated to be 200,000 m2/year. Additionally, the
production of the tile factory will substitute for tiles now imported from
Czechoslovakia and France at a CIF price of 220 to 338 sylis per square meter
(at the official exchange rate) while the prcjected selling price of Matoto's
production is 250 Sylis.
2.23      The proposed rehabilitation anticipates a capacity of 100,000 square
meters annually. It consists of the renewal of all the existing equipment:
pressing, grinding and polishing machines. The rehabilitation provides
also for the automation of raw materials hancling and weighing and for the
provision of one drying machine. Very small modifications will be made to the
existing building.
2.24      Estimated cost and financing for the rehabilitation are:
Costs                     Foreign       Local       Total
…__------…US$  000      …
Initial expenses (PPF Studies)                 60          -          60
Equipment                                   1,766          18      1,784
Civil Work                                    106          62        168
Technical Assistance & Training               168           -        168
Engineering and Assembly                      500          35        535
Project Management                            260           -        260
Sub-total                              2,860         115       2,975
Working Capital                               199          12        211
Total                                   3,059         127       3,186
2.25      Under the assumptions in Annex 3, t:he rehabilitated tile factory is
expected to generate a net profit before tax increasing from Syli 2.8 million
in year 3 to Syli 24.0 million in year 10, and sizeable net cash flows after
debt service except in years 6, 7 and 9 when considerable equipment replace-
ments are anticipated. The financial rate of return is expected to be about
23% and the economic rate of return 14%, both over 12 years. Guinea's tiles
have been seriously under-priced, therefore, assurances would be obtained at
negotiations that:



- 20 -
(i) The selling price of the tiles would be such as in IDA's view,
would enable the factory to recover all production costs, service
all its debts, and earn a financial rate of return of not less
than 10% a year. Detailed measures to ensure this were discussed
during negotiations.
(ii) Government will provide financing for necessary equipment replacements
anticipated in years 6, 7 and 9.
(v) Special Rehabilitation Measures
2.26      As described in Chapter I, a major problem with state-owned enter-
prises is the number of tight administrative controls to which they are
subjected. Government is leaning towards converting most of these controls
into monitoring devices so that they stop holding up the implementation of
normal managerial decisions.
2.27      The first major step in implementing this new policy was the
abolition of the industrial holding company OCOFI in 1981. To prevent the
remaining tight administrative controls from unduly hampering the imple-
mentation of this project, the following additional measures are recommended,
and were discussed with Government representatives during negotiations:
(a) state-owned enterprises should apply to IDA and OPEC Fund for
project financing through the Ministry of Industry notifying
IMPORTEX not to seek permission, but purely for information and for
statistical and planning purposes. IDA and OPEC Fund would disburse
funds directly to foreign suppliers, with notice thereof to CNCIH,
which will treat such disbursements as loans to the enterprises
concerned.
(b) CNCIH should establish and maintain direct financial relationships
with all clients and borrowers under this project, state-owned
or private.
(c) CNCIH would appraise loan requests submitted to it by Min. SME and
be responsible for the final investment decision.
(d) Every state-owned enterprise to be financed under the project
will maintain a complete accounting and internal control system
acceptable to IDA including cost accounts, fixed asset registers,
stock cards, and monthly physical inventory of raw materials, spares
and other consumables.
*(e) To facilitate good management and avoid delays, Government would
open and maintain a foreign exchange account in its Central Bank for
each of the four enterprises (Chapter III below) to finance imports
of raw materials, spares, and fuel.  The first year's requirement of
these items (initial working capital) would be financed by IDA under
this project.



- 21 -
(f) Consulting engineers being appointed to supervise and manage the
rehabilitation exercise would help the Government to conduct
the bids and supervise the rehabilitation in Guinea from start of
construction until the factory goes into production, and their
involvement would cease with a final report twelve months after
start of production.
(g) The turnkey or packaged contract for rehabilitation will include
technical assistance for the factory for 6 months full time starting
immediately after completion of rehabilitation, followed by visits
of specified frequency and duration, including review of plantation
development for the two agro-industrial enterprises during a period
of about two years. This technical assistance should include
training of Guinean factory and agricultural staff; supervision of
equipment operation and maintenance; suggestions for improvements;
and a report on all this to Government and IDA immediately following
each visit.
(h) The four state enterprises to be rehabilitated would be free to
manage their cash balances, without having to pay over depreciation
allowances to Government.
2.28      The concept of equity capital does not currently exist in Guinea's
100% state-owned enterprises. Yet the Government is keen to attract private
participation in the rehabilitation exercise. To facilitate such participa-
tion, restrict annual pay-out to genuine profits, and generally promote good
financial management of the four state enterprises, the following additional
measures were discussed during negotiations.
(i) not later than December 31, 1982, there would be an audit, by
auditors acceptable to IDA, designed to establish the values of
the assets and liabilities and recc,mmend appropriate accounting
changes or improvements for each of the four enterprises to be
rehabilitated;
(ii) the net worth revealed by the audit. would constitute Government's
equity in the business before the project;
(iii) each enterprise would then be established as a limited liability
company under Guinean law at the Government's expense, and with
an authorized capital large enough to anticipate future invest-
ments (e.g. an authorized capital in syli equivalent to at
least US$5 million is recommended).
(iv)  Government would then be issued enough shares in each enterprise
to reflect the net worth of the enterprise as established under
(ii) above;



- 22 -
(v) any private shareholder wanting to participate would then be
issued shares of a total value agreed between him and the
Government. Such shares would be issued either against cash
payment or against the agreed value of goods being supplied
by the shareholder as part of this rehabilitation effort;
(vi) the total value of shares ultimately issued should be such as
to enable each enterprise to finish up after the rehabilitation
exercise with a term debt/equity ratio of 1:1. For this to happen
it is possible that a portion of the foreign-financed rehabilitation
goods and services under this project would need to be passed on by
Government to the enterprise, not as term loan (as assumed in all
calculations in Annex 3) but as equity. The lower term debt/equity
ratio proposed would improve the profitability of each enterprise.
(vii) Annual payments by each enterprise to either Government or any
other shareholder would be limited to (a) loan repayments and (b)
dividends declared out of net profits arrived at in accordance with
generally-accepted accounting principles and audit acceptable to
IDA; and
F.   Feasibility Studies
SONACAG: Ornamental Stones and Slate Quarry
2.29      The feasibility study which reviewed SONACAG's quarries identified a
deposit of ornamental granite in Kouriya. The market analysis showed a
substantial demand in Europe and the U.S. Some small samples delivered to
potential European importers aroused interest but resulted in a request for
larger consignments of samples to permit more extensive market tests.
2.30      The project therefore provides the required equipment and assistance
to SONACAG to (i) extract about 50 blocks of ornamental granite, in desirable
sizes, and (ii) test the international market. The report of the technical
assistance and study, due not later than 12 months after starting the extrac-
tion of the sample blocks, would provide a full assessment of the potential
market offered to SONACAG.
2.31      The project would also finance the cost of equipment and assistance
to SONACAG to similarly extract and test-market the good quality floor and
roof slates it currently produces at a quarry in Labe, but for which there is
not a sufficient domestic market for viable operation. SONACAG expects to use
the same equipment and the same consultants as far as possible to study both
the ornamental stones and the slates.
2.32      Costs and financing of the two pilot projects are summarized as
follows:



- 23 -
Costs                                Foreign         Local        Total
---- ------US$    000      …
1.  Equipment                          355.0          4.0          359.0
2.  Vehicles                             6.5                         6.5
3. Technical Assistance &
Marketing Study
100.0                      100.0
461.5         4.0          465.5
After the tests, the equipment and vehicles would be used for normal opera-
tions of SONACAG either at the same location, or elsewhere.
G.   Promotion of Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) (Annex 4)
2.33      Since Government has only recently begun to pursue a policy of
promoting private enterprise, its staff have 7ery little experience with use
of analytical tools to assess private sector activities or with providing
development service to assist entrepreneurs. Hence support to the Ministry of
SNEs and Artisans (Min. SME) focuses on providing expert advice and assistance
to Guinean directors on how to design and impLement programs to assist private
enterprises (i.e. artisans and small and mediuim size firms including those
with cooperative ownerships), and on the job staff training.
2.34      Project support to the Ministry wilL consist of (a) technical
assistance; (b) short-term consultancies; (c) professional staff training,
and (d) transport and equipment.
2.35      Technical Assistance.  Four key areas have been identified in which
technical assistance can have greatest impact in building up the capacity of
the operations department of Min. SME, namely, the divisions of (i) Studies
and Extension Services and, (ii) Finance and ''rade, (iii) Accounting and
Management, and (iv) Infrastructure and Technology. The project would provide
four experts (t.o.r. in Annex 7) who will be advisors to the Division Chiefs
in these areas. At the same time, each advisor would be directly responsible
under the Division Chief for the implementation of the program to assist
entrepreneurs in his area of expertise, including training Ministry staff
on-the-job, and identifying candidates for fur-ther professional training in
seminars or short courses in Guinea or in other countries.
2.36      Short-term Consultancies.  Export pr-omotion is of great importance
to the economy and to private enterprises which face a relatively small domes-
tic market. Identification of potential manu:-actured exports, export incen-
tive and financing schemes constiti-.te a special field of expertise. The
project therefore provides financing of specialists who will be recruited on a
short-term basis for specific tasks during the project period. Similarly, the
project provides for short-term consultancy to strengthen the Ministry's capac-
it-y in sector planning, systematic collection of basic data, and generation of
statistics for policy making. People with the necessary educational background
in statistics and economic planning are available in the country. However,
their practical experience in these fields and in evaluation of policy instru-
ments is limited. Terms of reference would be drawn up by the Ministry with
IDA and CIDA assistance for the planning and export promotion consultants.



- 24 -
2.37      Staff Training.  Approximately 16 fellowships are provided in the
project for professional training of Ministry staff in seminars, or short
courses offered in neighboring countries in the region or overseas. In place
of these fellowships, some of the funds may be applied to pay for seminars
organized in Guinea by foreign consultants.
2.38      Vehicles and Equipment.  The project is financing the foreign
exchange costs of the purchase of two vehicles to increase the mobility of
staff assisting private enterprises in Conakry and in the regions. Office
equipment, including calculators and photocopying machines, engineers drawing
equipment, and interphone posts, are to be provided for the new offices which
are not yet fully equipped.
2.39      Office Extension.  The project would also finance the cost of
imported material required for extending the existing Min. SME office building
which is already too small for the existing staff, let alone the technical
assistance staff being provided under the project. The extension would add
10 rooms to the building.
2.40      In summary, the foreign exchange base cost of US$2,165,000 (Annex 5,
i.e. excluding CNCIH technical assistance) under this component for assistance
to Min. SME would include the foreign exchange costs of salaries, housing, and
vehicles of four experts (US$1,627,000) for two to three years; twenty-eight
man-months of short-term consultants (US$210,000); staff training (US$167,000);
transport and equipment (US$61,000); and office extension (US$100,000). The
foreign exchange costs would be jointly financed by IDA, EEC, and CIDA (para.
2.41 below).
H.   Assistance to Credit National (CNCIH)
2.41      The project would provide technical assistance, staff training,
transport and equipment to CNCIH to enable it to undertake financial apprai-
sals of subprojects most of which would have been, identified, prepared and
appraised for technical and economic viability by Min. SME. The latter and
CNCIH have already held two successful meetings at which they agreed on their
separate functions in the appraisal and supervision responsibilities. Regular
consultative meetings would continue. The proposed six experts at Min. SME
and at CNCIH, plus proposed staff training at both institutions should ensure
adequate project appraisal and supervision. The technical assistance for
CNCIH (US$527,234) would consist of two expatriates, each for two years: one
a credit specialist, and the other assisting with banking administration.
The staff training would comprise approximately six fellowships estimated to
cost US$54,000. The transport and equipment consist of office equipment
(US$60,000) and a motor vehicle (US$15,000).
2.42      The total estimated foreign exchange cost of project technical
assistance, training, equipment, and vehicles for Min. SME and CNCIH, with
contingencies, add up to US$3.1 million to be financed as follows: IDA
US$1.1 million; EEC US$831,000; CIDA US$1.2 million.
2.43      Line of Credit.  In addition to technical support the project would
provide lines of credit totalling US$13.5 million to enable the CNCIH make
long and medium term loans to finance fixed investment in sound private sector



- 25 -
enterprises. IDA would provide a line of credit of US$8.8 million for
artisanal and modern manufacturing enterprises and service industries.
Private entrepreneurs will contribute at leas: 30% to their projects.  The
EEC would provide a line of credit of about US$4.7 million 1/ for urban
enterprises in construction industries and for- micro-projects in other sectors.
2.44      A detailed description of CNCIH, its strengths, weaknesses, and
project role and needs are in Annex 1. The detailed modalities and terms of
fiinancial intermediation and necessary technical assistance for CNCIH are
described with other detailed aspects of project implementation in the next
Chapter.
I.   Industrial Policy and Planning Assistance
2.45      The project would also provide 36 months of technical assistance
to help the Government in:
-    collecting data relevant to the industrial sector;
-    analysing alternative industrial strategies and evolving a realistic
industrial sector policy, objectives, and strategy consistent with
Guinea's factor endowments and realistic expectations of foreign
exchange availability;
-    preparing long-run and short-run indlustrial development plans;
and
-    co-ordinating planned industrial investments and developments in
private as well as public sectors.
2.46      This technical assistance would be located in the Ministry of
Industry which is responsible for proposing arnd implementing overall
industrial policy. However, its t.o.r. also covers the private sector and
therefore would include the work of the Ministry of Small- and Medium-Scale
Enterprises and Artisans (Min. SME).
2.47      There would also be a US$1.6 million general fund to finance techni-
cal, institutional, and sector assistance needs to be identified during project
implementation. About US$300,000 of this amount would finance the external
audit of the opening Balance Sheets of the four enterprises to be rehabilitated,
as well as all IDA project disbursement during IDA FY83 through 86 (4 years).
The detailed use of the fund is discussed in the next chapter.
J.   Summary Project Costs and Financing
2.48      Project costs and financing are sumnarized below.  Details of each
component are contained in Annexes 1 through 5, and the Project Files. Cost
estimates for the rehabilitation of public sector enterprises are based on
1/   The EEC line of credit, designated in ECU, totals ECU 5 million.  Since
the US$/ECU exchange rate fluctuates, the total dollar value of the line
of credit fluctuates also. The valid figure for all accounting purposes
is the ECU amount.



INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST AND FINANCING - SUMMARY
(Million US$)
Rehabilitation of l/                 Foreign   LocalŽ             Total            OPEC                     Guinea   Guinea
State Enterprises-                    Costs    Costs    Taxes   Costs    IDA    FUND    EEC    CIDA    Govt.    Enter.   Total
Essential Oils Project                  1.8     0.1         -      1.9
Quinine Project                         3.4      1.4      (0.2)    4.8
SONACAG - Granite Quarry                2.5     0.3        -       2.8
- Ornamental Stones            0.5       -         -      0.5
- Ceramic Floor Tiles          2.9      0.1        -       3.0
Initial Working Capital                 1.1     0.1        -       1.2
Short-term Consultancy for
Industrial Planning                  0.4       -         -       0.4
12.6     2.0      (0.2)   14.6
Contingencies                           5.9     0.8        0       6.7
Total Rehabilitation                   18.5     2.8       (0.2)   21.3      7.5    11.0      -               2.8                 21.3  0
Private Sector Promotion
Technical Assistance and Equipment
for SME Min. and CNCIHI/             3.1     1.2      (0.1)    4.3       1.1     -       0.8    1.2      1.2         - /2     4.3
Private Sector Sub-Projects            13.5      5.9      (0.9)   19.4      8.8      -      4.7      -        -        5.9 -    19.4
Total Private Sector                   16.6      7.1     (1.0)   23.7       9.9      -      5.5    1.2       1.2       5.9       23.7
General-Consultancies  Studies
and External Audit4/                1.6       _                 1.6     1.6      -        -       -        -        -         1.6
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                    36.7     9.9       (1.2)   46.6    19.0    11.0    5.5    1.2         4.0       5.9       46.6
1/ Includes all equipment and civil works; one year?s spares, engineering, training, and technical assistance for state
factories
2/ Includes duties and taxes
3/ Includes contingencies at the rate of 10%
4/ General fund to finance technical assistance and studies in areas such as accounting, auditing and industrial
sector work, to be discussed during negotiations, also to finance external audit of all IDA financing.



- 27 -
feasibility studies conducted during project preparation by internationally
recruited engineering consultants. Meanwhile, the rehabilitation costs as
estimated to date have been increased by 47%, based on a physical contingency
of 15%, a risk contingency of 15% 1/, and a price contingency based on expected
price escalations. 2/  Costs of project assisi:ance to Min. SME and CNCIH have
been estimated jointly by Government and IDA staff on the best available infor-
mation, and a price contingency of 10% added i-o the base cost. The price con-
tingencies reflect recent actual experience. Consultancy costs are generally
estimated at US$10,000 a month.
2.49      The project is estimated to cost about US$47 million, to be co-
financed by IDA, OPEC Fund, EEC, CIDA, Governruent, and private Guinean entre-
preneurs. Foreign sources (including IDA) would finance only foreign costs
totalling US$36.7 million. Government has requested all external financiers
wishing to assist its private sector at this time to pass all such assistance
through the IDA project. This is why there are so many cofinanciers. However,
every donor (including IDA) would be financing specific, pre-identified, and
irndependent items.
2.50      IDA's role as "Chef de file" is to ensure that all these pieces fit
into a coherent and effective package of assistance, provide leadership in
advising the Guineans (as they requested), prepare terms of reference for all
technical assistance (Annex 7), and exchange information on all appointments.
IDA expects to entirely supervise the rehabilition component which it is
cofinancing with the OPEC Fund. For the private sector promotion, however,
each cofinancier will be responsible for supervising implementation of its
contribution, even though IDA will follow the progress of all the contribu-
tions.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, RISKS AND JUSTIFICATION
A.   Implementation Responsibilities
3.01      Responsibility for project implementation would rest with:
-    the Ministry of Industry (rehabilitation of state-owned units,
industrial policy and planning);
-    the Ministry of Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises (private
sector promotion); and
-    the Credit National (CNCIH) (financial intermediation).
3.02      The Ministry of Industry, which is responsible for proposing and
implementing industrial sector policy in Guinea, would use the industrial
planning technical assistance, and supervise the rehabilitation of the four
1/   Considered necessary until completion of ICB proceedings.
2/   1982 8%; 1983-85 7%.



- 28 -
state-owned enterprises, and the decorative stone and slate quarry pilot
project. Direct and primary responsibility for the rehabilitation and pilot
project would rest with the existing management and staff of the respective
units, who would be afforded greater independence and financial responsibility
(para. 2.26). Initial reconstruction of the State-owned units, technical
assistance for 2 years following reconstruction, training of Guinea factory
staff, and supervision of equipment operation and maintenance, would all be
part of the turn-key or package contracts for rehabilitation. The actual
reconstruction and performance of the turn-key contract up to commissioning of
the new plant would be supervised by internationally-recruited consultant
engineers. Technical support to factory management after rehabilitation would
be provided by the existing technical divisions of the Ministry of Industry.
To facilitate implementation and supervision of the activities described in
this paragraph, assurances would be obtained from Government that the Ministry
of Industry and MinSNE would each appoint a full-time official co-ordinator of
this project not later than June 30, 1982.
3.03      Promotion and assistance to privately-owned industries, artisans and
cooperatives (para. 2.33 to 2.38) would be undertaken by the newly-created
Ministry of Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises and Artisans. IDA, CIDA and
EEC staff have helped the Ministry in setting up its organisation chart, needs
for technical assistance, and guidelines to enable it to prepare its work plan.
Four consultants would, over a period of three years, assist the Ministry
respectively with project analysis, management and accounting support, engineer-
ing support, and market and economic analysis. The project includes training
programs to enable Guineans already in post to take over these functions after
three years.
B.   Credit National (CNCIH) and Financial Intermediation
3.04      All financial intermediation during the project would be undertaken
by the Credit National pour le Commerce, l'Industrie et l'Habitat (CNCIH).
It currently operates as one of the functional arms of the Central Bank, but
would be given greater autonomy under the project and technical assistance
(two experts for two years) to enable it not only to handle the limited
project intermediation, but also to improve its operations.
3.05      Its strengths (competent management, generally good quality of
professional staff, satisfactory accounting procedures), would be important
from the outset to project success, and weaknesses in the area of project
appraisal capability and operating procedures would be addressed with tech-
nical assistance provided by the project. However, strengthening of its
financial situation under Guinea's current highly centralized banking system
and its build up to the status of a full-fledged development institution,
which are the long term goals, are, nevertheless, unlikely to materialize in
the short term. Therefore, CNCIH would initially serve as a government agent
and official channel of funds for the proposed credit rather than assume the
role of an autonomous development bank. Nonetheless, as a first step towards
the long term goal, this project should build up, through technical assistance,
CNCIH's project identification, appraisal and supervision capabilities,
improve its operating procedures, and seek to obtain limited autonomy for it
to appraise, approve and follow-up its loans made from the project funds.



- 29 -
External auditing of CNCIH's accounts would also be required. A full descrip-
tion of CNCIH structure, history, operations, financial position, and pros-
pects is contained in Annex 1. Assurances were obtained at negotiations.
that Government would consult IDA before chan3ing the status, structure, or
operating instructions of CNCIH or Min. SME.
C.   Use of IDA Funds
3.06      To insure proper accountability, the proceeds of the proposed IDA
credit of US$19 million to the Government should be made available through
the Central Bank to the beneficiaries under the terms set out below.
Line of Credit
3.07      For the private sector, the US$8.8 riillion IDA-Financed line of
credit would be onlent by CNCIH to investment projects at not less than 13%.
CNCIH would pay the Central Bank 10% and thus receive a reasonable margin of
3% on these funds. The terms of the subloans would be flexible with a maximum
of fifteen years and a minimum of two years and grace periods not exceeding
five years. Terms are expected to average seven years with eighteen months
grace. The foreign exchange risk would be passed on to all sub-borrowers.
3.08      Eligibility for the IDA line of crecdit would be restricted to
majority privately-owned industrial projects. All subprojects would be
required to demonstrate economic and financial viability.  Government agreed
during negotiations that any government-set prices of inputs or outputs
applied by any enterprise (public or private) to be financed through this
project would ensure that the enterprise can earn financial and economic
rates of return of not less than 10%. IDA would reimburse the full amount of
the subloans as long as such reimbursement does not exceed 70% of the project
cost or US$2 million for any single sub-loan. In view of the CNCIH's limited
project appraisal capability, there would be r.o free limit. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations regarding the credit conditions in paragraphs
3.07 and 3.08.
Rehabilitation Investments
3.09      The IDA and OPEC Credits for these investments totaling US$18.5
million would, to the extent that they are not passed on as equity in the
enterprises (para. 2.28), be also on-lent through CNCIH on the same terms as
the line of credit for private projects, including a minimum 13% final rate.
Terms of loans to individual public sector enterprises would be tailored
to their projected repayment capabilities with a maximum of twenty years.
Annual audits of the accounts of these enterprises by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA would be required, and so would authority for direct super-
vision and loan collection by CNCIH.
1/   The IBRD lending rate at the appraisal date of this project.  It also
results in a final on-lending rate (13.0%) near the top of the new range
of interest rates recently introduced in Guinea.



- 30 -
Initial Working Capital
3.10      To ease the Government' foreign exchange burden while promoting
project implementation for the first year of the project, the project includes
costs of initial working capital. Foreign exchange for raw materials, spares,
fuel and other consumables required for rehabilitation would be provided up to
the following limits:
US$ '000
Station Autonome de Seredou (Quinine)            400
SIPAR Labe (essential oils)                      150
Granite Quarry                                   300
Floor Tiles                                      200
Total                                    1,050
These funds would be loaned to the enterprises by CNCIH on a short-term basis
(6 to 12 months). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Govern-
ment would regularl-y provide all project-financed enterprises sufficient
foreign exchange to replenish their needs for working capital.
3.11      Consideration was given to providing similar working capital finan-
cing for private enterprises, but practical difficulties such as anticipating
working capital needs, and disbursing against small amounts of multifarious
items mitigated against such a facility. Nevertheless, the two-year term loans
permitted under the project could cover substantial working capital needs.
Technical Assistance and Equipment
3.12      IDA funds totaling US$1.0 million for this component would be
made available by the Government to CNCIH (US$404,000.) and the SME Ministry
(US$560,000) on a grant basis. Funds allocated to CNCIH would finance the
salary and expense for two years of a full time credit specialist (US$275,000)
to establish a proper development credit promotion, approval and supervision
unit and cover the cost of related expenses for the purchase of vehicles and
office equipment (US$75,000). They also cover 18 man-months of fellowships (6
for 3 months each-total US$54,000). Funds allocated to the SME Ministry would
finance the cost of up to three man-years of services of an advisor to set
up and train staff for a projects study bureau (US$405,000) and finance the
cost of fellowships for training of the Ministry staff in seminars locally or
overseas (US$54,000) and office extension (US$100,000).
Industrial Planning, Pilot Market Study, and General Fund for Technical
Assistance.
3.13      The IDA financing for the Ornamental Stone and Slate Quarry Pilot
Project (US$462,000), and that for the industrial planning (US$0.4 million)
would be made available as grants to the Ministry of Industry. Assurances



- 31 -
were obtained at negotiations that terms of reference for these studies,
as well as the qualifications and terms and conditions of employment of
consultants would be subject to IDA apptoval. The US$1.6 million general fund
for technical assistance and studies would be financed by IDA at Government's
request for ad hoc needs. The uses of this fund (external audit, accounting,
and other technical assistance; industrial and financial sector related
studies; preparation of future projects) are all clearly foreseen. However,
the exact cost of each type of assistance cannot be accurately estimated in
advance. Therefore, assurances were obtained that the purpose, terms of
reference, and contract for each use of the fund would be agreed in advance
between Government and IDA.
D.   Procurement
3.14      The turn-key or package contracts fc,r public sector rehabilitation
wcould be awarded following international compEtitive bidding during the
evaluation and processing of which, the Guinea. Government would be advised by
engineering consultants being appointed to supervise the rehabilitation.
3.15      Consultancy services would be procurred according to IDA guidelines.
All other IDA-financed components (mostly privately-owned subprojects) would
be procured on the basis of comparative shopping in Guinea and abroad by
private clients wit-h Government advice (in the case of sub-projects) or by
Gcovernment officials (in other cases). The nature and amount of these items
make them unsuitable for formal international competitive bidding. Loan
requests should describe the proposed procurement procedures which should be
in accordance with appropriate commercial practices, to ensure economic and
efficient procurement, taking into account price, quality, service and other
essential factors. Procurement procedures should include I.C.B. procedures
for tenders on contracts exceeding $2,000,000 or as otherwise may be reason-
ably requested by the Association. The EEC and CIDA would follow their own
procurement and disbursement guidelines.
E.   Disbursement
3.16      Due to the severe foreign exchange shortage in Guinea, Government
has indicated its preference that as far as possible IDA and OPEC Fund dis-
bursements be made direct to foreign suppliers. This method, which has worked
satisfactorily during the IDA-financed public enterprise feasibility studies,
would be applied to most IDA and OPEC Fund financing. However, financing to
upgrade local housing for expatriate technical assistance staff would be
disbursed 100% against authorized billings based on contracts preapproved by
IDA between the Ministry of SME, the house owner, and the contractor who would
carry out the upgrading. IDA disbursements would be against Suppliers'
invoices and/or other documents acceptable to IDA. The IDA credit would
finance 100% of foreign costs (including all expatriate staff and consultants
costs) for all project components. IDA financing of SME sub-loans would be
limited to 70% of total project cost and would not exceed US$2 million for any
single sub-loan. For imported items purchased in Guinea, IDA financing would
be limited to 70% of total cost.



- 32 -
F.   Accounts, Audits and Project Reports
3.17      As this will be the first Bank Group-financed IDF project in Guinea,
we anticipate a continuation of the considerable staff and consultants'
detailed monitoring and technical assistance commenced during project prep-
aration. In addition to the reports described in paragraph 2.27, CNCIH, the
SME Ministry, and each of the state-owned enterprises that would receive funds
under this project (including the four to be rehabilitated) would maintain
for the purpose of recording project related expenditures appropriate account-
ing systems acceptable to IDA, have such systems and accounts audited annually
by qualified auditors acceptable to IDA, and send their annual accounts and
audit reports thereon to Government and IDA not later than six months follow-
ing the end of the Government's fiscal year, starting with the first complete
Government fiscal year following Credit effectiveness. In addition, the SME
Ministry will send to IDA, EEC and CIDA annually, a report on its efforts to
promote and assist private enterprises in Guinea. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations on the conditions described in this Section.
G.   Project Risks
3.18      There are three primary risks attached to the project.  The first,
dealt with in detail in Chapter II, is that the Government administrative
procedures described in Chapter I could slow down project implementation,
particularly the public sector rehabilitation. The second is that Government
may lack foreign exchange to finance imports of raw materials and spares. The
third risk is that the SME Ministry may take on more tasks than it can handle,
because of its very broad mandate.
3.19      Project financing of initial working capital, and the proposed
direct Government foreign exchange payments to foreign suppliers (Section E
above) are a means of minimising the impact of the lack of foreign exchange
on the rehabilitation component. In general, however, and particularly for
the private sector, the only satisfactory solution is a sizeable increase in
Guinea's foreign exchange earnings. Nevertheless, assurances would be sought
at negotiations that Government would provide adequate foreign exchange to
finance essential imports for all enterprises to be financed under the
project, including private enterprises. As regards the SME Ministry, it is
hoped that the dialogue commenced during project preparation will continue,
and will keep the Ministry's activities within manageable proportions.
3.20      The project is not expected to harm the physical environment.
The granite quarrying is done on non-arable land far from human habitation,
and some effort is made through back filling and grade restoration to avoid
excessive damage to the landscape.
H.   General Economic and Financial Justification
3.21      This project would represent the first major effort in more than a
decade to provide Government assistance and credit in the promotion of private
enterprises in Guinea. Chapter I showed the evidence of private entrepreneur-



- 33 -
ship which exists without state support. With the Government's desire to
shift a substantial part of the responsibility for production and distribution
from the public to the private sector, this project is assisting Guinea in a
very difficult but necessary structural adjustment.
3.22      The financial and economic rates of return on the planned re-
habilitation of each state enterprise are satisfactory (Chapter II). Also,
sensitivity analyses (Annex 3) show that these rates of return are not unduly
sensitive to moderate cost increases or production decreases. Aggregate
net foreign exchange earnings of the two agro-industrial state enterprises
would be US$2 million a year at full production. The public enterprise
rehabilitation and private sector promotion are expected to save considerable
amounts of foreign exchange, preserve existing jobs, restore the workers'
productivity, and create many new jobs. In the process of achieving these
benefits, the project would considerably strengthen the SME Ministry, the
Ministry of Industry, the CNCIH, and management of public enterprises, not
only through the supply of foreign technical assistance and IDA's supervision,
but also through a well-planned training program for key management-staff
in those institutions.
IV. PRE-CONDITIONS, ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01      As this would be the first Bank Group-financed project in this
sector in Guinea, negotiations and technical discussions between Government
and IDA representatives covered explicitly the conditions that would govern
the implementation of the project, including some that may otherwise be
considered routine. Specific provision has been made in the Credit Agreement
for covenants and conditions which we consider essential for the success of
the project including:
(a) the rehabilitation conditions spelled out in paragraph 2.27(a)
to (h);
(b) foreign exchange for imports of raw mnaterials, spares, and fuel
would be made available by government as described in para. 2.27(e)
and 3.10 for state enterprises and ii 3.19 for private enterprises;
(c) accounting systems would be set up, and accounting, audit, and
project reports would be prepared and submitted to IDA as
described in paragraph 3.17;
(d) procurement procedures for the rehabilitation component would be
by turn-key or package contracts let on the basis of international
competitive bids. Other IDA-financed items would be procured
as described in paragraph 3.15;



- 34 -
(e) Guinea would provide all financing necessary for the project,
including necessary additional funding for continued plantation
development (para. 2.12), and asset replacements; and
(f) all sub-projects, public and private, rehabilitation and new, to
be financed by the IDA Credit under the project, would be subject
to financial and economic rate of return criterion of at least 10%
(para. 3.08).
4.02      Under the conditions in paragraphs 4.01 above, the project is
suitable for an IDA Credit of US$19 million for the purposes described in
this report.



Annex 1
35.                             Page 1
GUINEA
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. BACKGROVd& A member of the French West African monetary community at the time
of its independence in 1958, Guinea withdrew from the Franc Zone two years later
to establish its own currency, the Guinean Franc, and its own banking system.
In the initial phase, all banking functions in. the country including both central
and commercial were directly carried out by La Banque de la Republique de GuinEe
(BRG), Guinea's first central bank. In July 1961, when three sector specialized
banks were established to discharge BRG of its retail banking activities, BRG
adopted its current name of Banque Centrale de la Republique de Guinee (BCRG).
The Currency: Created at par vis-a-vis the CFA Franc in 1960, the Guinean Franc
was changed to Syli in 1972 at an official value of 10 Guinean Francs to a Syli.
In Aiugust 1975, the Syli became linked to SDRs at a parity of Syli 24.6853
to one SDR. The currency is non convertible and its free market value is believed
to be far below the official value of approximately 20 Sylis to one US dollar.
Banking System: Guinea's highly centralized banking svstem currently consists
of the Central Bank,. five specialized banks and a national insurance company (SNAR).
100% state oluned, all these institutions are in theory finarciall'y autonomous
but in practice are subject to strict control by the Central Bank.
The Central Bank (BCRG):  Established in 1960 to take over all activities previously
carried out by the regional itest African Central Rank, BCRG is a  financially
autonomous State enterprise with a paid-in capital of Sylis 50 million. BCRG
performs functions normally carried out by a central bank, namely, it controls
the money supply, issues currency, manages foreign exchange, acts as government
banker, compiles financial and balance of payments data, counsels the government



- 36 -                           Annex 1
Page 2
on financial matters, provides extensive rediscount and advance facilities to the
Government and the banks and generally, controls all credit and banking activities
in the country. It also manages the Government's external debt and is the
Government's representative on all international monetary and financial organizations.
La Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole (BNDA): Set.up in 1961, BNDA
finances all agriculture and rural development activities in the country. BNDA
is the only bank in Guinea that has some previous experience with IBRD.
La Banque Guineenne du Commerce ExtGrieur (BGCE):  Also created in 1961, BGCE
initially was responsible for all foreign transactions but since 1977 only
handles activities in connection with foreign trade.
La Bangue Nationale des Services Exterieurs (BNSE): A spin-off from BGCE, BNSE
carries out since its creation in 1977, all banking transactions with the
outside world which are not directly related to import-export trade.
Le Credit National pour le Co-merce, l'Industrie et !'Habitat (CNCIH):  Established
in 1961, CNCIH is the specialized bank for all domestic transactions including
financing of internal trade, industry and housing. CNCIIH, which is the only bank
with branches in the country, will act as intermediary for the proposed project.
It is discussed in greater detail later in this chapter.
La Banque Nationale de l'Epargne et des Depo^ts (BNED): The most ,cecent of Guinean
banks, BNED was established in 1979 to assume all financial services previously
provided by the postal system. Objectives assigned to BNED are to mobilize and
to manage domestic savings including acceptance of sight deposits, mainly from
individuals.
La Soci&t6 Nationale d'Assurances et de Reassurances (SNAR): Also created in
1961, does not do any lending, but since it mobilizes large amounts of cash,
SNAR has been assimilated to the banking system on the same footing as the banks.



Annex 1
- 37                             Page 3
Organization and Operating Policies:
A special feature of the Banking system in Guinea, apart from its high degree of
specialization, is the extensive role played by the Central Bank in all policy
and management matters of individual banks. Although member banks are all
financially autonomous institutions, with their own directors, they have in fact
little operational autonomy. All policy and u3st operational decisions,
including all credit approvals, are made by a Board and a Management Committee
common to all banks including the Central Bank. The governor of the Central
Bank, President of both of these bodies, the VLce-Governor and the directors
of individual banks constitute the Committee wlhile the Board comprises some
key government officials in addition to above committee members. Through this
structure, and also because the Central Bank in Guinea enjoys an absolute
monopoly over all credit resources in the country, individual banks operate more
]Like specialized branches of the Central Bank :han as autonomous banks.
Credit Policies: In line with policies pursued for other sectors of the economy,
all decisions concerning credit in Guinea are centrally planned. Determination
of interest rates, global credit ceilings and its sectoral allocation is primarily
made by the Conseil National du Credit (CNC). The Central Bank, acting as
executing agency of CNC, manages the credit ceilings, determines bank specific
allocations and authorizes individual credits, thus limiting the role of individual
banks merely to that of administrators of individual loans. Since all credit
resources available in individual banks, including their profits and depreciation
funds are posted in one national credit fund, managed by the Central Bank, resource
needs of banks are in priority satisfied by the Cerntral Bank through interbank
advances.  Shortages not covered by this mechanism are then refinanced by Central
Bank advances. In early years, the banking system apparently had an unlimited
access to Central Bank advances but in recent years, the Central Bank appears
to have substantially restricted this facility,



- 38 -                           Annex 1
Pagp 4
Credit Distribution: Most investment projects in Guinea have been in the past
and are still financed directly by the State through bilateral resources. As a
result, the major type of domestic credit provided by the banking system is
short term, financing primarily seasonal credit needs of large State sectoral
companies. In recent years, due to mounting financial difficulties of many
of these companies, an increasing portion of past unpaid short term credit has
been consolidated into medium term credit. There are currently virtually no long terr,
credits made by the banking system In Guinea.
Except for some occasional cases, the private sector does not in principle
currently have any access to credits from the banks. Apparently, the rate of
default on private credits in earlier years was so great that the government
decided to stop any lending to the sector since late sixties. As a result,
almost 98% of the banks outstanding credit today finances the public sector
enterprises.
There is some evidence that in line with its recent policy of encouraging
the private sector, the government has begun to relax its restrictions on credit
to private firms and individuals. At the same time, there appears to be a
recognition for a need to review the structure and policies of the financial
sector institutions. A commission comprising of the Governor of the Central
Bank and directors of primary banks has recently been appointed to look into
these matters. Although it is still too early to judge on the outcome of this
initiative, indications are that more autonomy for credit approval and less
specialization in the activities of the banks may finally result.
Interest Rates:  Interest rates in Gu4nea have remainei unchanged since 1967 when
by a presidential decree they were set at 5.5% for all long term loans, 4%
for all medium-term loans, 5.5% for short-term loans to industry and at 7.5% for



Annex 1
39 -                          Page 5
for short-term loans to commercial enterprises. Interest paid on deposits varies
from 2.5% on sight deposits of Sy 200,000 and more to 3.5% on term deposits of
5 years but no interest is paid on small deposits. Following IMF and IDA
suggestions, lending rates were increased in August 1981 to between 10% and
14%, and deposit rates to between 4% and 7%.
B. CREDIT NATIONAL POUR L'INDUSTRIE, LE COMMERCE ET L'HABITAT (CNCIH)
1. Legal Status, Activities, Management and Organization:
Established in 1961 as a State bank to take over the domestic banking activities
of BRG, Guinea's first Central Bank, CNCIH is the only bank in Guinea with
branches in the interior of the country. Second largest in terms of assets after
BGCE, CNCIH initially acted as banker to all sectoral companies and individuals
for their domestic banking needs. In later years, however, accounts of sectoral
companies who were involved both in import-export and local trade were centralized
at BGCE. As a result, CNCIH's only major client since 1977 apart from several
thousand individuals, is the State Produce Commercialization Sectory Company,
SERCOM.
The scope of services currently offered by CNCIH to its clients is relatively
limited. Under authorization from the Central Baak, it makes short, medium and
occasionally long-term loans to its clients and offers deposit and checking
facilities. Also, through its up country branches, it acts on behalf of the
other banks for making payments to and collections from their clients.
CNCIH is managed by Mr. Mory Conde, a professional banker who recently
came to CNCIH after managing BNDA for several yea::s. Mr. Conde appears to be
a very able and highly motivated manager, fully aware of the strengths and weaknesses



- 40 -                             Annex 1
Page 6
of the system and the institution. The mission was favorably impressed by several
procedural changes he has recently introduced in the institution. Apart from a
training course followed in France with the Caisse Centrale, he has attended the
EDI agricultural projects course. He is very open and frank in his discussions
and has expressed a strong interest in working with IBRD.
CNCIH's total staff numbers 870 of which 132  work at the central office
in Conakry and the balance in its 36 branches dispersed all over the country.
The professional staff numbering about 35 generally appears to be well motivated
and of good calibre. CNCIH's central office is organized into 9 departments on
functional lines including a separate department each for internal control,
credit, accounts, administration, procurement and maintenance, cash control, branch
accounts and studies and statistics. The credit department, staffed with three
professionals, oversees disbursements, collections and follow-up on arrears
but is not required, under Guinea's existing credit allocation system, to carry
out any credit evaluation. CNCIH's project appraisal capability therefore is
extremely weak and needs to be built-up with outside ass4stance.
Operations:   As indicated earlier, apart from occasional credits to the private
sector, mainly for housing and more recently  to commercial enterprises, the
bulk of CNIH's lending goes to finance seasonal credit needs of the state produce
marketing company, SERCOM. CNCIH's credit approvals over the past three years
are summarized below ( in million of Sylis):



Annex 1
- 41 -                          Page 7
1978              1979               1980
Short-term public                   405.5             1,049.7            1,556.8
"    "   private                   -                   19.0               16.3
Medium-term public 1/               206.0                -                 380.0
if   of  private                    0.1                                   13.3
Long-term   public                     -                 -                    -
"   private                   -                   0.5                0.5
611.6             1,069.2             1,966.9
_/ Credit shown as medium-term is in fact consolidation of unpaid past short-
term credit to SERCOM.
CNCIH's Portfolio as of End December 1980
(Summarized)
(Sylis million.)
TERM/SECTOR                      Commercial  IndustrLal  Housing  Social  Artisanal  Total
Short-term: public sector           2,435.9       -           -        -         -     2,435.9
private sector            43.1     13.3          -        7.1      0.1        63.9
Medium-term: public sector          2,145.0       -           -       6.0        -     2,151.0
private sector            1.9-       -         18.3       -       0.6        20.8
Long-term:  public sector               -         -           -        -                   -
private sector             -          -         14.8    74,6        -         89.4
4,625.9     13.3         33.1    87.7       0.7    4,760.7
T'his table clearly indicates the overwhelming predominance of commercial
credits. Although it may appear at first sight that a sizeable share of CNCIH's
portfol'io consists of term-loans, this is in fact not true. Most of the loans shown
as medium- and long-term represent consolidation into medium-term of arrears on
SERCOM short-term credits and into long-term for the prviate sector.



Annex 1
Page 8
-42-
Financial Performance and Position: CNICH's income statements and balance sheets
for years 1978 through 1980 are summarized in Tables 2 and 3. Although the
performance of CNCIH would appear from these documents to be satisfactory, steady
profit being shown each year, this is not in fact the case. First, financial charges
on borrowings by CNCIH are maintained artificially low at an annual constant figure
of Sylis 10 million which represents an average cost of less than 0.3% per annum on
borrowings which is even lower than the Central Bank rediscount rate of 2.5%. Second,
CNCIH does not make any provisions for bad debts although almost 20% of its
portfolio as of end 1980 was reported to be affected by arrears. Were these two
charges properly accounted for, CNCIH would show a substantial loss.
The balance sheets indicate that CNCIH's financial position is also extremely
weak. Not only is its liquidity tight, but its equity base is also extremely low.
Debt equity ratio as at end 1980 was a very high of 93:1. Regulations requiring
banks to pay out their total profits and depreciation reserves to the State
do not allow for an improvement in this situation. A substantial injection of
equity (of the order of Sylis 700 to 800 million), would be required to place
CNCIH on a sound financial footing.
Prospects: Although CNCIH has its strenghts (competent management, generally
good quality of professional staff, satisfactory accounting procedures), it also
has major weaknesses. While its total lack of project appraisal capability and
weakness in appropriate operating procedures can be overcome in the near future
by providing it with technical assistance, strengthening of its financial situation
under Guinea's current highly centralized banking system appears to be unlikely
to materialize in the short term. Therefore, it makes more sense, at least in
the initial stages of our involvement in Guinea, to use CNCIH essentially as a
channel of funds for the proposed credit rather than undertaking the ambitious



Annex 1
- 43 -                          Page 9
task of turning it around into a classic development bank. Nonetheless, as a
first step towards that goal, we should try to build up, through this project,
CNCIH's project identification, appraisal and supervision capabilities, improve its
operating procedures and seek to obtain limited autonomy for it to apptaise,
approve and follow-up its loans made from the project funds. External auditing
of CNCIH's accounts should also be required.
C. PROJECT FINANCIAL INTERMEDIATION
To insure proper accountability, the proceeds of the proposed IDA credit of
US$16 million to the Government should be made available through the Central Bank
to the beneficiaries under the following terms:
Line of Credit: the US$9.4 million line of credit would be onlent to CNCIH
at 10% a year (the IBRD rate at the date this project was appraised). CNCIH would
then in turn lend these funds to investment projects at a minimum interest rate
of 13%. CNCIH would thus receive a reasonable margin of 3% on these funds. The
terms of the subloans would be flexible with a maximum of fifteen years and a minimum
of thirty months. The terms are expected to average seven years with eighteen
months grace.
Eligibility for the line of credit would be restricted to majority privately
owned industr-al projects. All subprojects would be required to demonstrate
economic and financial viability. IDA would reimburse the full amount of the
subloans as long as such reimbursement does not exceed 70% of the project cost,
estimated to be total direct and indirect foreign exchange costs of such
projects. In view of CNCIH's limited project appraisal capability, there would
be no free limit.



_ -44 _                    Anlex 1
Page 10
Rehabilitation investments: the IDA funds for these costs totalling US$6.1 million
would be also on-lent through CNCIH on the same terms as the line of credit
for private projects, including a minimum 13% final rate. Terms of loans
to individual public sector enterprises would be tailored
to their projected repayment capabilities with a maximum of twenty year.
Annual audits of the accounts of these enterprises by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA should be required. In addition, authority for direct
supervision and loan collection by CNCIH from these enterprises, without
going through the sectoral holding company, should be obtained.
Technical assistance and ecuipement: IDA funds totaling US $0.8 million for this
component would be made available by the government to CNCIH (US $350,000) and the
SHE Ministry (US $450,000) on a grant basis.  Funds allocated to CNCII would
finance the salary and expenses for two years of a full time credit specialist
(US $250,000) to establish a proper development credit promotion, approval and
supervision unit and cover the cost of related expenses for the purchase of
vehicles and office equipment (US $100,000).  Funds allocated to SME Ministry
would finance the cost of up to 3 man years of services of an advisor to set up
and train staff for a projects study bureau (US $400,000) and finance the cost
of fellowships for training of the Ministry staff in seminars overseas (US$50,000).
Short-term Consultancy for Industrial Planning and Brick Engineering Study: The
financing for the brick engineering study (US$0.3 million) and that for the
industrial planning (US$0.4 million) would be made available as grants to the
Ministry of Industry. Terms of reference for these studies as well as the qualifications
and terms and conditions of employment of consultants would be subject to IDA
approval.



Annex 1
SU10k\RIZED BALANCE SIIEETS                                   Table 1
ASSETS                                    BNDA        BNfE         BNCE          BNDE           CNCIH       TOTAL       X
Fixed assets                               5.4         17.1         8.0           4.1            36.2
Long term credits (private)                3.7           -           -             -             89.5         93.2       (0.8)
Public                                                                        -
Medium term credits-State sector          25.6           -        3,795.8          -          1.155.3      4,976.7       (4.6)
Private sector       80.4           -           -                           21.5        101.9       (0.8)
Short term credits-State sector            2.9         43.8       4,160.6                     2,436.0      6,643.3      (55.5)
Private sector        67.5                                                   63.6        131.1       (1.0)
Mixed sector                                     21.9                                     21.9       (0.1)
180.1         43.8       7,978.3                     3,765.9    11,968.1
Advances to other banks                   97.6       1,256.0        576.4         25.6        2.174.4
Central Bank                             157.7           -           -           329.3            -
Cash                                       3.1           42.5         6.5         12.3          158.5
Correspondent banks                                     218.2       148,5           -
443.9       1,577.6      8.717.7        371.3        F,135 1
LIABILITIES
Equity                                    44.7           15.8        75.0         14.9           20.0
Reserves                                  25.6             -         35.0
Borrowing from State                      60.0            2.9        60.7         59.8        1,102.2
Deposits Private sector short term       151.6          851.0       215.5         84.3          764.3
Deposits Private sector medium term       46.3            -           -          145.0          370.8
State enterprises                          -              -       5,509.8                     1,067.0
Other local banks                        111.1            -       1,223.5         67.2        2,296.6
Central Bank                               -           570.0        435.0          -            468.3
Other current liabilities                  0.2          136.6     1,064.1          -              1.0
Profits                                    4.8            1.3        99.9                        45.0
443.3       1,577.6      8,717.7        371.3        6,135.2



Annex 1
- 46 -                                Table 2
CNCIHI - Summarized Income Statements
(Syli million)
1978            1979          1980
INCOME
Income from loans and advances               170.9           155.7         179.9
Other income                                  -               -               0.1
170.9           155.7         180.0
EXPENSES
Personal expenses                             43.8            47.3          47.7
Financial expenses                            10.0            10.0           10.0
Other operating expenses                      30.2            44.5          50.3
84.0           101.8         108.0
GROSS OPERATING INCOME                        86.9            53.9           72.0
Less provisions
Less depreciation                              1.4              1.3           2.7
1.4             1.3           2.7
GROSS EARNINGS                               85.5              52.6          69.3
Plus (minus) net exceptional profits (losses)-                   -            2.1
Income tax                                    28.2            17.3           22.2
NET PROFIT                                    57.3             35.2          45.0



- 47 -                            Annex 1
CNCIH - Summarized Balance Sheets                       Table 3
(Sylis million)
1978             1979         1980
ASSETS
Fixed assets                                   17.7             17.9         36.1
Portfolio  Long term credits                   89.5             89.6         89.5
Medium term credits             4,131.5          2,338.0      1.176.8
Short term credits                208.4            930.3      2,499.6
Current assets
Advances to other banks           914.8          1,137.3      2,174.4
Central Bank
Cash                                         .312.5            249.9        158.5
5,674.3          4,763.1      6,135.2
LIABILITIES
Capital                             9.5              8.2         20.0
Profits                            57.3             35.2         45.0
Total equity                       66.8             43.4         65.0
Borrowings from the Central   1,215.5            2,206.3        468.3
Bank
Other banks                     1,6362.8           317.6    2,296.6
Deposits from the state           904.0          1,420.2    1, 102.2
From state enterprises            538.0             68.8    1,066.9
From private sector             1,237.1            626.0    1,020.7
Other current liabilities           8.7             83.4       115.4
5,674.3          4,763.1    6,135.2



-48-                          Annex 2
Page 1
GUINEA
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
LIST OF STATE-OWNED INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES
No.
ORDER                                       ENTERPRISES
1    Office de Coordination Financiare des Entreprises Industrielles.
(Sectorielle des Entreprises Industrielles). (OCOFI SIEGE)
2    Usine Cerarmique de, Matoto (U. C. MA.TOTO)
3    Societe Yobiliere des Vehicules Automobiles (SOMOVA)
4    Industrie Gen6rale d'Articles de Toilette (IGAT)
5    FRUITAGUINTEE
6    Entreprise Nationale des Tabacs et Allumettes (E.N.T.A)
7    Usine des Mleubles de Sonfonia (U.M. SONFONIA)
8    Societe Guir.eenne d'Explosifs  (SOGEX)
9    Societe des Brasseries de Guinee (SOBRAGUI)
10    Societe de Fabrication de Bougies (SOFAB)
11    Usine d'Oxygene Acetylene (U.O.A.)
12    Societe Guineenne des Pointes (S.G.P.)
13    Briqueterie Nationale de Kobaya (B.N. KOBAYA)
14    Entreprise Nationale de Distribution d'Eau de Guinee  (D.E.G.)
15    Huilerie KASSA
16    Usine The Macenta (U.T. MACENTA)
17    Station Autonome Seredou  (S.A. SEREDOU)
18    Socilte Nationale de NIANDAN (S.N. DE NIANDAN)
19    Usine d'Outillage Agricole (U.S.O.A.)
20    Complexe Sucrier de Koba (SUKOBA)
21    OFFITAB
22    Socie'te Nationale de Carreaux et Granits (SONACAG)



- 49 -                            Annex 2
Page 2
23   Societe Guineenne de Rechappage (SOGUI:REP)
24   Construction Metallique de Dixinn
25   Complexe Textile de Sanoya (C.T.S.)
26   Societe Industrielle Panification (SIPAG)
27   Socifte Industrielle de Peinture (SIPECO)
28   Societe Guineenne de Fabrication (SOGU'IFAB)
29   Societe Nationale d'Electricite (S.N.E.)
30   Office des Bauxites de Kindia (O. B. K.)
31   ENIPHARGUI
32   Complexe de Boissons et de Fruits de Kindia (C.B.F.K.)
33   Usine de Jus de Fruits de Kankan (U.J.F.K.)
34   Briqueterie Nationale de Kankan (B.N. KANKAN)
35   Usine de Sciage et de Contreplaque de N'Z6r6kore
36   Conserverie Mamou
37   Societe d'Extraction d'Essence d'Orange (SIPAR-LABE)
38   HUILERIE DABOLA



Annex 3
- 50 -
GUINEA
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
REHABILITATION FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC CALCULATIONS
CONTENTS
A. Assumptions and Findings
B. For each state enterprise we present the following tables:
1. Investment costs and financing in local currency and F/E.
2. Income statements before depreciation and interests
3. FRR
4. Economic cash flows
5. ERR
6. Amortization schedule
7. Loan repayment schedule
8. Cash flow statements
9. Income statements including depreciation and interests
When relevant, a table of net F/E earnings is presented.



- 51 -                             Annex 3
Page 1
ASSUMPTIONS AND FINDINGS
I. INVESTMENTS COSTS
1.0       All investment  costs were drawn from the feasibility studies.  For
SEREDOU local costs and F/E investments costs (as well as operating costs)
were given in US$. For the three other projects the investment costs were
given in FF for F/E costs and either in sylis or FF for local costs. All
costs were converted to $ at the following exchange rates:
US$1 = 21.35 sylis = 5.8 FF
or   FF1  =  3.68 sylis
1.1       Although installation costs have been taken into account, transportation
costs in Guinea have been indicated clearly for SEREDOU and the GRANIT quarry
only. For SIPAR transportation has been budgeted in FF only, ana for the
tile factory thay have been neglected (they should be very low in this case
because MATOTO is close to Conakry.
1.2       For all investments we have adopted the same breakdown   studies (if
any), equipments, civil works, rehabilitation costs in the case of the two
plantations, housing and social and vehicles.
1.3       We have added
- initial expenses which cover the two PPFs
- standardized TA and project management costs as follows
a) TA - Factories - 6 man-montls t 6 weeks visits $90,000
($12,000 a man/month)
Plantation - 12 man-month + 4 weeks visits $156,000
(two + assistants will be necessary, one agronomist and
a mechanic for the equipments)
We have added training costs to TA costs.



Annex 3
- 52 -                             Page 2
b) Project management 18 man-monthSat $12,000 a man-month
or $220,000 of which $60,000 are included in the initial
expenses (second PPF)
1.4       We have provided for the detailed engineering of the factories
as part of the turn-key contracts. This cost should not exceed 5% of the
total investment costs without T.A. and training. But if it is so for
SEREDOU (the feasibility study did not provide any engineering cost):
a) It is slightly higher for the granit quarry because it includes
site preparation.
b) It is much higher for the tile factory (26% of investment costs)
despite the reduction made on the projected cost of the feasibility
study ($60,000).
c) It is also higher for SIPAR (10% of investment costs including
housing).
All these costs are estimates to be confirmed through the ICB for the turn-key
contracts.
1.5       State enterprises do not pay duties or taxes on imported equipment.
1.6       The working capital takes into account the requirements for imported
and local raw materials fo7 the first year of the functioning for all projects
(as they appear in the economic cash flow).



Annex 3
Page 3
- 53 -
2. OPERATING COSIS
2.0       Labor
The labor costs given by the feasibility studies vary widely.
They were generally given including taxes. When this was not the case we
added for financial calculations a 10% witholding tax on salaries. The
(SPEG)-/ public enterprises sector in Guinea (June 17, 1980) refers to a
10% tax for salaries over 3,000 sylis/worker (page 25) and some feasibility
studies refer to a 8% tax.
2.1       Raw Materials
The cost of local raw materials (a smnall percentage of raw materials
consumption) was taken as given by the reports.-
All costs of imported raw materials 'were given without import duties.
For financial calculations we applied a 15% duty. The SPEG in its Annex 3 gives
a 10 to 30%     duty m chemicals and fuel oil,the two most used items in
these four projects.
3. FRR
The FRR has been calculated in US$ (exceptfor granit quarry and
tile factory) which have been done in sylis. rhe conversion to sylis will
be made easily by using the exchange rates given in 1.0. This will not change
the FRRs. The FRRs are about 15%, 33%, 21% and 23% respectively for SEREDOU,
SIPAR, Granit quarry and tile factory. For SEREDOU the relatively low FRR
reflects the fact that the plantation will take 10 years to mature: meanwhile
the rehabilitated factory will increase its capacity utilization from a third
in the first year to 100% in the eighth year. It is not technically possible
to rehabilitate the factory at a lower capacity.
17 SPEG = Report on Public Enterprises in Guinea by Myrna Alexander.



Annex 3
- 54                               Page 4
4. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
4.0        Virtually all rehabilitation costs and benefits are incremental
since all four enterprises to be rehabilitated are virtually at a standstill.
For the two export-oriented projects - SEREDOU and SIPAR - the net foreign
exchange earnings in net present value exceed the F/E cost of the
investments. For SEREDOU it will repay all investments in F/E in the 10th
year and will accrue up to $38.3 million in the 20th year. For SIPAR the
total investments in F/E will be repaid in the 10th year also and will amount
to $2.9 million in the 15th year. The ERRs have nevertheless been calculated
with the following assumptions:
(a) The shadow exchange rate is US$1 = 42.70 sylis
(b) The costs exclude taxes and import duties only. The local
transportation costs for imported raw materials and other local
transfers have not been shadow priced, because they are small
and difficult to evaluate.
(c) For imported inputs and for outputs border prices have been used
converted to sylis at the shadow exchange rate.
(d) No shadow price has been used for local inputs.
4.1       The ERRs are about 21%, 13%, and 14% for respectively>SEREDOU, SIPAR
and the tile factory. Because of the non-adjustment of local costs (except for
the taxes and the exchange rate) these ERRs are probably understated mainly for
SEREDOU and SIPAR for which the labor component represents 60 to 70% of the
production costs.
4.2       For the granit quarry the ERR is 33% with the output shadow-priced as
an import saving, and the imported inputs similarly shadow-priced.
Further economic justifications arel



Annex, 3
- 55 -                       Page 5
- For SEREDOU and SIPAR employment creation
- The tile factory is an import substitution project
-   The granit quarry will furnish the needed construction material
for building construction and mostly for the road construction
included in the development plan of Guinea (e.g. Highway projects).
5. CONDITIONS FOR PROJECrS' FINANCING
5.0       To ensure a successful implementation of these projects, the Guinean
government would have to respond to two categories of conditions.
5.1       Freedom from bureaucratic procedures, this freedom concerns 3 areas
of management: finances, procurement and sales. For SEREDOU and SIPAR whose
investment effort has to be sustained for 10 years, the project should be
authorized to use its resources in local and foreign currencies to acquire
equipments and raw materials. For the granit quarry and the tile factory
the government should provide these projects with foreign exchange to enable
them to import the raw materials and spares (which represents 70% in value of
the inputs). In addition, for the 2 export-oriented projects the management
of these enterprises should be staffed so as to assume responsibility for its
exports. This is a necessary condition for then to respond adequately to the
conditions of foreign markets.
5.2       This freedom could be achieved by allowing the four enterprises to
report to OCOFI, IMPORTEX and other governmental institutions a posteriori.
A "contract plan" could be the basis of this reporting.



Annex 3
Page 6
- 56 -
5.3       The financial tables for the granit quarry and the tile factory
show that acceptable results can be achieved only if the local prices of
their output are increased by 10% a year until 1987 and 6% a year thereafter.
The Guinean Government should not only allow these price adjustments but
also whatever price adjustment is necessitated by increases in prices of
imported raw materials and spares (60 to 70% in value of production costs).
Government has agreed to pursue a pricing policy which would ensure that
each enterprise earns an FRR and ERR of at least 10%.
5.4       All income statements assume that all loans to the four state
enterprises would be at 13.5% a year interest.
5.5       Financial Support of SEREDOU
The cash flow statements as well as the income statements of the
projects show that SEREDOU will incur financial losses and need additional
cash flow in local currencies during the first 7 years of the project.
The Guinean Government has committed itself to supply SEREDOU with appropriate
financing to cover SEREDOU losses and to cover future investment costs.



- 57 -                              Table 1
SEREDOU
TOTAL INVESTMENTS
(in 'OOOs US$)
Years             Foreign Currency                'ucal Currency              Total
1983                    3,160                           983                   4,143
1984                      117                           153                      270
1985                       41                           173                      214
1986                       30                           173                      203
1987                       31                           174                      205
1988                       33                           174                      207
1989                       34                           174                      208
1990                       35                           174                      209
1991                    2,002/1                         585                   2P607
1992                       37                           175                      212
1993                       37                           175                      212
1994                       37                           175                      212
1995                       37                           175                      212
1996                       37                           175                      212
1997                       37                           175                      212
1998                       37                           175                      212
1999                       37                           175                      212
2000                       37                           175                      212
2001                       37                           175                      212
2002                       37                           175                      212
/1    Includesfactory expansion to 22.5 T/year of quinine chlorhydrate in 1991.



58 -                                  Table 2
SEREDOU
INVESTMENTS AND FIN.NCING 1983-1985
(in 'OOOsUS$)
I. INVESTMENTS
Foreign Costs       Local Costs       Total
1. Initial expenses                     122                -             122
2. Plantation
Rehabilitation                        81               404            485
Equipments                           267                -             267
Water dam                             20                20             40
3. Factory
Engineering                           72                -              72
Building                             180               260            440
Equipments                           500                50            550
Auxiliary equipments                 200                -             200
4. Infrastructure
Road                                 640               160            800
Housing & social                     415               415            830
Office equipment                      85                -              85
Vehicles                             195                -             195
5. Training and T.A.                    381                -             381
6. Project Management                   160                -             160
Total                       3,318              11309         4.627
Working Capital2/                    387                28            415
II. FINANCING
Guinean governflent                                   1,417         1,417
Bank                               3,505               -            3,505
Total                       3.705              1,337.        5.042.
/J1 PPFs
/2 Finances the raw materials and other supplies for the 1st year.



- 59                             Table 3
SEREDOU
INVESTMENTS
(in 'OOOs US$)
1983        1984          1985         Total
Local currencies            983          153           173         1309
Foreign currencies         3160          117           41          3318
Total                 4143         270           214          4627
a) with 40% contingencies
Local currencies            983          153           173         1309
Foreign currencies         4487          117           41          4645
Total                 5470         270           214          5954
b) with 20% contingencies
Local currencies            983          153          173          1309
Foreign currencies         3824          117            41         3982
Total                 4807         270           214          529f



SEREDOU
INCOME STATEMENTS BEFORE DEPRECIATION AND INTERESI
(in '0OOs US$)
83   84    85    86    87    88    89    90    91    92    93    94    95    96    97    98   99  2000   2001   2002
Labor'-          183  178   178   178   187   192   164   191   204   217   234   244   244   244   244   244' 244   244    244    244
Raw mat. and
other   2/      113  122   129   127   136    59    71    98   136   192   193   193   193   193   193   193  193   193    193    193
supplies--
2/
Spares-           12   12    12    12    12       6      6     9    51    51    51    51    51    51    51    51   51    51           51      51       1
Overheads-3      506  506   506   506   506   506   506   506   506   506   506   506   506   506   506   506  506   506    506    506                g'
Total Costs      814  818   825   832   846   735   774   817   910   983   984   984   984   984   984   984  984   984    984    984
Sales            502  652   818   904  1027   469   692  1138   1808 4486  4486  4486  4486  4486  4486  4486 4486  4486   4486   4486
Operating
Income         (312)(166)   (7)   72   181  (266)  (82)  321   898  3503  3492  3492  3492  3492  3492  3492 3492  3492   3492   3492
l/  Includes 10% tax
2/  Includes 15% average import duty
3/  IncludesUS$216,000 of administrative salaries.
Note: calculation made in US$ because all costs benefits given by feasibility study in US$.
H
0*-



- 61-                            Table 5
SEREDOU
FINANCIAL ,RATE OF RETURq
(in 'OOOs US$)
Years        Investments          Operating.          Sales         Net cash flows
Costs
1983            4,143                 814              502              (42455)
1984               270                818              652                (436)
1985               214                825              818                (221)
1986               203                832              904                (131)
1987               205                846             1027                 (24)
1988               207                735              469                (473)
1989               208                774              692                (290)
1990               209                817             1138                 112
1991              2607                910             1808               (1709)
1992               212                983             4486                3291
1993               212                984             4486                3280
1994               212                984             4486                3280
1995               212                984             4486                3280
1996               212                984             4486                3280
1997               212                984             4486                3280
1998               212                984             4486                3280
1999               212                984             4486                3280
2000               212                984             4486                3280
2001               212                984             4486                3280
2002               212                984             4486                3280
FRR about 15%



Table 6
SEREDOU
ECONOMIC CASH FLOWS
(in 'OOOs US$)
Years          83  84   85   86   87   88   89   90   91   92   93   94   95   96   97   98   99  2000  2001  2002
Labor          83  81   81   85   87   75   87   93   98  106  111  111  111  111  111  111  111   111   111   111
Raw mat. and
other supp.  98 106  112  110  118   51   62   85  118  167  167  167  167  167  167  167  167   167   167   167
Spares         10  10   10   10   10    5    5    8   45   45   45   45   45   45   45   45   45. 45    45    45
Overheads    354 354  354  354  354  354  354  354  354  354  354  354  354  354  354  3    354   3              35    34
Total Costs  545 551  557  559  569  485  508  540  615  672  677  677  677  677  677  677  677   677   677   677
Sales        491 663  807  893 1016  458  681 1127 1797 4475 4475 4475 4475 4475 4475 4475 4475  4475  4475  4475
Economic
cash flows   (54)112  250  334  447  (27) 173  587 1182 3803 3798 3798 3798 3798 3798 3798 3798  3798  3798  3798
Note: official exchange rate 1US$ = 21.35 sylis.Assumed shadow exchange rate to convert local costs into US$
1US$ = 42.70 sylis (conversion factor 2).
1) border prices (CIIX prices have been used for imports
2)  for outputs,FOB prices have been used for exported goods, non traded local sales have been shadow priced.
3) calculation has been in US$ because all costs and benefits given by feasibility study in US$.



- 63-                            Table 7
SEREDOU
Economic Rate of Return
(in 'OOOs US')
Years         Investments            Operating Costs             Sales           Net Cash Flows
83              3651                      545                   491                 (3705)
84               204                      551                   663                    92
85               128                      557                   807                   122
86               117                      559                   893                   217
87               118                      569                  1016                   329
88               120                      485                   458                  (147)
89               121                      508                   681                    52
90               122                      540                  1127                   465
91              2315                      615                  1797                 (1133)
92               125                      672                  4475                  3678
93               125                      677                  4475                  3673
94               125                      677                  4475                  3673
95               125                      677                  4475                  3673
96               125                      677                  4475                  3673
97               125                      677                  4475                  3673
98               125                      677                  4475                  3673
99               125                      677                  4475                  3673
2000               125                      677                  4475                  3673
2001               125                      677                  4475                  3673
2002               125                      677                  4475                  3673
ERR about 21%



Table 8
Net Foreign Exchange Earnings
in 000's US$
fears               83   84   85   86  87    88   89  90    91    92    93   94   95   96   97   98   99  2000 2001 2002
Freign exchange  336  344  350  348  356  284  295  321   391   440   440  440  440  440  440  440  440  440  440  440
costs
Freign exchange  480  652  796  882 1005  447  670 1116  1786  4464  4464 4464 4464 4464 4464 4464 4464 4464' 4464 4464
sales
Ifet foreign       144  308  446  534  649  163  375  795  1395  4024  4024 4024 4024 4024 4024 4024 4024 4024 4024 4024
exchange earning
Investments       2920  117   41   30   31   33   34   35   200         2    37. 37
(2776)  88  405  504  618  130  341  760 (1607) 3987  3987 3987
(2776)k2698) 29Q J789) I71 )041) (700)  60 (1547) 2440  642710404



- 65-                              Table 9
DepreciatLon Schedule
(in 'OOOs US$)
Years          Plantation            Fac'ory             Total
83
84                                   .L73                173
85                 5                  .L73               178
86                15                  :L73               188
87                31                  1L73               204
88                52                  :73                225
89                88                  [73                261
90               134                  .L73               307
91               215                  .L73               388
92               539                  412                951
93               539                  4l5                954
94               539                  239                778
95               539                  239                778
96               539                  239                778
97               539                  239                778
98               539                  239                778
99               539                  239                778
2000               539                  239                 778
2001               539                  245                 784
2002               539                  245                 539
4,469               4,124              10,598
AssumPtions: a) the factory and its expansion in 1991
have been amortized on 10 yearson a straight line basis.
Initial investment 1.733 expansion 2 396 million dollars.
b) the plantation investment [$.2,894 million
(year 1 to 3) and $3,575 million (year 3 to 20)] has been
amortized proportionally to the quantity of bark collected
(total 3,600 tons).



- 66 -                           Table 10
Loan Repayment
(in 'OOOs US$)
The loan will amount to 3.705 million dollars. It will
be made for 20 years with a 10 years grace period at 13.5%.
Payment Schedule
Years         Capital            Interests            Total
1993               697            1,774               2,471
1994               791             1,680              2,471
1995               897             1,514              2,471
1996            1,018              1,453              2,471
1997            1,156              1,315              2,471
1998            1,312             1,159               2,471
1999            1,489                982              2,471
2000            1,690                781              2,471
2001             1,918               553              2,471
2002            2,177                294              2,471
13,144            11,505             24,710



Table 11
INCOME STATEMENT
(including depreciation and interest )
(in 'OOOs US$)
Years            83    84  85   86   87    88   89    90    91    92    93    94    95    96    97    98    99    2000
SOURCES
Operating
income        (312) (166) (7)  72  181   (266)(87)  321   898  3503  3492  3492  3492  3492  3492  3492  3492    3492
Depreciation          173 17d  Idd  204    22j z61  '3ul   300  951   354    773  '778   778   773   778   778             77e
Interests                                                                1679   1590  1489  1374  1244  1097   929        739
Net. income    (372) (339)185) Q.16) (23)  (491)(493)   14   510  2552  1035   1124  1225  1340  1470  1624  1785    1975
Losses
transferred
to planta-
tion          312   339 185  116   23    491 493        0     0     0      0      0      0     0      0     0      0       0
investment
account 1/
2001        2002
Operating income         3492         3492
Depreciation              778          778
Interests                 523          278
Net income               2191         2346
1/ Financed by additional government equity contribution.



Table
CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
(in 'QOOs US$)
Years                        1983  1984  1985 1986 1987 1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1996  1991  2000 2001  2002
SOURCES
Operating 1/                 (312) (166)  (7)  72   181 (266)  (82)  321   898  3503  3492  3492  3492  3492  3492  3492  3492  3492 3492  3492
incomes
Governme.nt                    983  153  173  131    24  207   208  2286
participation
to equity
Additional                     312  166     7   -     -   266    82
government
participation to
offset losses
Bank loan                    3160  117   41
Total                         3143  270  214  203   205  207   208  2607   898  3503  3492  3492  3492  3492  3492  3492  3492  3492 3492  3492
USES
Investment                    4143  270 214  203   205  207   208  2607   212   212   212   212   212   212   212   212   212   212  212   212 
and renewal
Loan reDayment,                                                           *               2471  2471  2471  2471  2471  2471  2471  2471  2471 2471
includting
interest
Total                        4143  270  214  203   205  207   208  2607   212    212 2550  2550  2550  2550  2550  2550  2550  2550  2550 2550
Cash flows                    0      0    0    0      0    0      0    0      686   3291  809   809   809   809   809   809   809   609   o09  809
Cumulative                    0      0    0    0      0    0      0    0      686   3977 4786  5595  6404  7213  8022  8831  9640 10449 11258 72067
cash flows
1/ Before depreciation or interest.



Modification 1
- 69 -                          40% contingency
_SEREDOU                                  Table 13
TOTAL, INVESTIW':!T
(in 'O0Os US,)
Years             Foreign Currency             Lical Crrency               Total
1983                   4,487                         983                   5,470
1984                     117                          153                    270
1985                      41                          173                    214
1986                      30                          173                    203
1987                      31                          174                    205
1988                      33                          174                    207
1989                      34                          174                    208
1990                      35                          174                    209
1991                   2,0Q2                          585                  2,607
1992                      37                          175                    212
1993                      37                          175                    212
1994                      37                          175                    212
1995                      37                          175                    212
1996                      37                          175                    212
1997                      37                          175                    212
1998                      37                          175                    212
1999                      37                          175                    212
2000                      37                          175                    212
2001                      37                          175                    212
2002                      37                          175                    212



Modification 1
- 70 -                            40% contingency
SEREDOU                                     Table 14
INVESTME'NTS A2D FINANCING 1983-1985
(in 'OOOsUS$)
I. INVESTMENTS
Foreign Costs       Local Costs       Total
1. Initial expenses 1/                  122                 -             122
2. Plantation
Rehabilitation                        81               404            485
Equipments                           267                -             267
Water dam                             20                20             40
3. Factory
Engineering                           72                -              72
Building                             180               260            440
Equipments                           500                50            550
Auxiliary equipments                 200                -             200
4. Infrastructure
Road                                 640               160            800
Housing & social                     415               .415           830
Office equipment                      85                -              85
Vehicles                             195                -             195
5. Training and T.A.                    381                -             381
5. Project Management                   160                -             160
7, Contingencies                       1327                             1327
Total                          4645              1309            5954
Working Capital                      387                28            415
11.   FINANCING
Guinean Government                   -                1337          1337
Bank                               5032                 -            5032
Total                         5032              1337           6369
l/ PPFs



- 71                       Modification 1
40% contingency
SEREDOU
Table 15
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURP1
(in'"OOOs US$)
Yeags        Investments           Operating          Sales         Net cash flows
Costs
1983             5470                814Z             502                (5782)
1984               270                818              652                (436)
1985              214                 825             818                 (221)
1986              203                 832              904                (131)
1987               205                846            1027                  (24)
1988               207                735              469                (473)
1989               208                774              692                (290)
1990               209                817             1138                 112
1991             2607                 910            1808                (1709)
1992               212                983            4486                 3291
1993              212                 984            4486                 3280
1994              212                 984            4486                 3280
1995              212                 984            4486                 3280
1996               212                984            4486                 3280
1997              -212                984             4486                3280
1998               212                984            4486                 3280
1999               212                984            4486                 3280
2000               212                984            4486                 3280
2001               212                984            4486                 3280
2002              212                 984            4486                 3280
FRR   12,5%
about 13%



- 72 -
SEREDOU                                      Table-l~
Economic Rate of Return
(in 'OOOs US$)
Years        Investments           Operating Costs            Sales           Net Cash Flows
83             4979                      814                  502                 (5291)
84              204                      551                   663                   92
85               128                     557                   807                  122
86              117                      559                   893                  217
87              118                      569                  1016                  329
88               120                     485                   458                 (147)
89               121                     508                   681                   52
90               122                     540                  1127                  465
91             2315                      615                  1797                (1133)
92               125                     672                  4475                 3678
93              125                      677                  4475                 3673
94              125                      677                  4475                 3673
95              125                      677                  4475                 3673
96              125                      677                  4475                 3673
97              125                      677                  4475                 3673
98               125                     677                  4475                 3673
99              125                      677                  4475                 3673
2000               125                     677                  4475                 3673
2001               125                     677                  4475                 3673
2002               125                     677                  4475                 3673
ERR about 17%1'



- 73-
Modification 2
20% contingency
SEREDOU
Table 17
TOTAL INVESTITENT
(in 'OOOs US$)
Years              Foreign Currency               Local Currency               Total
1983                      3824                           983                     4897
1984                      117                            153                      270
1985                       41                            173                      214
1986                       30                            173                      203
1987                       31                            174                      205
1988                       33                            174                      207
1989                       34                            174                      208
1990                       35                            174                      209
199:L                   2,002.                           585                   2,607.
1992                        37                           175                      212
1993                        37                           175                      212
1994                        37                           175                      212
1995                        37                           175                      212
1996                       37                            175                      212
1997                       37                            175                     212
1998                       37                            175                      212
1999                        37                           175                      212
2000                        37                           175                      212
2001                        37                           175                      212
2002                        37                           175                      212



_ 74 -                        Modification 2
20% contingency
SEREDOU                                Table 18
INVESTl4ENTS AND FINANICING 1983-1985
(in 'OOOsUS$)
I.  INVESTMENTS
Foreign Costs      Local Costs       Total
1. Initial expensesi/                  122                -             122
2. Plantation
Rehabilitation                       81               404            485
Equipments                          267                -             267
Water dam                            20                20             40
3. Factory
Engineering                          72                -              72
Building                            180               260            440
Equipments                          500                50            550
Auxiliary equipments                200                -             200
4. Infrastructure
Road                                640               160            800
Housing & social                    415              -415            830
Office equipment                     85                -              85
Vehicles                            195                -             195
5. Training and T.A.                   381                -             381
6. Project MIanagement                 160                -             160
7. Contingencies                       664                              664
Total                      3,982             1,309          5,291
Working Capital                     387                28           415
II.   FINANCING
Guinean government                  -              1,337          1,337
Bank                              4,369              -            4,369
Total                      4,369            1,337          5,704
1/ PPFs



- 75 -                        Modification 2
20% contingency
SEREDOU
Table 19
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
(in "OOOs US$)
Years         Investments           Operating           Sales          Net cash flows
Costs
1983              4807                 814              502                (5119)
1984               270                 818              652                 (436)
1985               214                 825              818                 (221)
1986               203                 832              904                 (131)
1987               205                 846             1027                  (24)
1988               207                 735              469                 (473)
1989               208                 774              692                 (290)
1990               209                 817             1138                  112
1991              2607                 910             1808                (1709)
1992               212                 983             4486                 3291
1993               212                 984             4486                 3280
1994               212                 984             4486                 3280
1995               212                 984             4486                 3280
1996               212                 984             4486                 3280
1997               212                 984             4486                 3280
1998               212                 984             4486                 3280
1999               212                 984             4486                 3280
2000               212                 984             4486                 3280
2001               212                 984             4486                 3280
2002               212                 984             4486                 3280
FRR about 14.7%



_ 76 -                          Modification 2
Z70  contingency
SEREDOU                            -
Tabld 20
Economic Rate of Return
(in,'OOOs US$)
Years        Investments           Operating Costs            Sales           Net Cash Flows
83             4316                       814                  502                 (4628)
84              204                      551                   663                   92
85               128                     557                   807                  122
86              117                      559                   893                  217
87              118                      569                  1016                  329
88               120                     485                   458                 (147)
89              121                      508                   681                   52
90               122                     540                  1127                  465
91             2315                      615                  1797                (1133)
92              125                      672                  4475                 3678
93               125                     677                  4475                 3673
94              125                      677                  4475                 3673
95              125                      677                  4475                 3673
96              125                      677                  4475                 3673
97              125                      677                  4475                 3673
98              125                      677                  4475                 3673
99              125                      677                  4475                 3673
2000               125                     677                  4475                 3673
2001               125                     677                  4475                 3673
2002               125                     677                  4475                 3673
ERR about 18%



- 77 -
Table 21
SIPAR
TOTAL INVESTMENI'S
(in 'OOs US$)
Years            Foreign Currency              local Currency            Total
1983                  1,208                           66                 1,274
1984                    469                           49                   518
1985                     28                                                  28
1986                     59                                                  59
1987                     38                                                  38
1988                    155                                                155
1989                    134                                                134
1990                     52                                                  52
1991                     64                                                  64
1992                      95                                                 95
1993                     76                                                  76
1994                     50                                                  50
1995                      19                                                 19
1996                      89                                                 89
1997                     18                                                  18
1998                    198                            9                    201



- 78 -                                 Table 22
SIPAR
INVESTMENTS LND FINANCING 1983-1985
(in 'OOOs US$)
I. INVESTMENTS
Foreign Currency      Local Currency      Total
1.  Initial Expenses              107                                  107
2. Plantation
Pedologic studies            100                                   100
Equipments                   221                                 - 221
Civil works                   61                    25              86
3. Factory
Engineering                   60                     -              60
Equipment                    400                     _             400
Building                      58                    30              88
4.  Training and T.A.             324                    -             324
5.  Vehicles                       95                    _              95
6.  Housing & social              119                   60             179
7.  Project management            160                    -             160
Total                  1Y705                   115           1,820
II.  WORKING CAPITAL
Bank                         144                     -             144
Guinean government              - -                 71              71
Total                    144                    71             215



SIPAR                                                   Table 23
INCOME STATEMENTS BEFORE DEPRECIATION AND INTERESTS
(in 'OOOs US$)
84    85    86    87    88    89    90    91          92      93        94        95        96        97        98
Labor,-/              85   102   174   238   240   241   247   248          248     253       255       254       262       215       176
Local Raw Material   37    39    41    44    47    50    53    58           63       67        73        76        80       84        88
Imported Ra
Material -         105   116   135   145   152   158   172   176         168      194       178       179       188      191       187
& spares (FC)
Overheads            147   147   147   147   183   147   147   221         147      186       147       147      147       147       192
Total costs          374   404   497   574   622   596   619   703         626      700       653       656       677      637       643
4/
Sales4t              717   802   998  1179  1292  1433  1560  1711    1818    2072           2159      2204     2270      2374      2395
Operating Income    343   398   501   605   670   837   941  1008    1252    1372            1506      1548      1593     1737      1752
1/   Labor costs include a tax estimated at 10%.
2/   Imported raw materials include a tax duty estimated at 15%.                                                                                   '
3/   Overheads include $75,000 of administrative salaries including tax, and imported supplies have been taxed at 15%.
4/   Actual export prices paid by the local bank in sylis to SIPAR are twice the export prices converted to sylis.



- 80 -                                   Table 24
SIPAR
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
(in ?6008 US$)
Years       Investments         Operating       Operating       Net Cash Flows
Costs          Income
1983           1,274                _               -               (1,274)
1984              518              374             717                (175)
1985               28              404             802                 370
1986               59             497              998                 442
1987               38              574           1,179                 567
1988              155              622           1,292                 515
1989              134              596           1,433                 703
1990               52              619           1,560                 889
1991               64              703           1,711                 944
1992               95              626          1,818                1,097
1993               76              700          2,072                1,296
1994               50              653           2,159               1,456
1995               19              656           2,204               1,529
1996               89              677           2,270               1,504
1997               18              637           2,374               1,719
1998              201              643           2,395               1,511
FRR = 33%



Table 25
SIPAR
ECONOMIC INCOME STATEMENTS
(in 'OOOs US$)
84     85      86      87     88      89      90     91      92      93      94     95      96      97      98
Labor                        39      46     79    108    109    109    112    113    113    115    116    115    119              98     80
Local Raw Material           19      19     22    22       23     25       27      29      32     34      37      38      40      42     44
Imported Raw Material
and Spares                91    101    117   126    132    137         150    153    146    169    155    156    163    166    162
Overheads                    84      84     84    84    115        84      84    149       84    118      84      84      84      84    123
Total Costs                 233    250    302   340    379    355         373    444    375    436    392    393    406    390    409
Sales                       342    374    471   558    603    665         731    807    892  1,003  1,100  1,107  1,152  1,201  1,236
Operating Income            109    349    169   218    224    310         358    363    517    567    708    714    746    811    827
Assumptions: 1.  The local costs, net of taxes have been shadow priced to be converted in dollars and using 2 as conversion factor.
2.  The report prices are FOB 1980 prices.
3. The local sales (substitute for imports) have been priced at CIF prices (1980).
4.  The value added on orange essence has been estiamted at 40% of its FO8 price.



- 82 -                              Table 26
SIPAR
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
(in 'OO0s US$)
Years       Investments        Operating        Operating        Net Cash Flows
Costs           Income
1983           1,241               -                -                 (1,241)
1984             494              233              342                  (385)
1985               28             250              374                    96
1986              59              302              471                   110
1987               38             340              558                   180
1988             155              379              603                    69
1989             134              355              665                   176
1990              52              373              731                   306
1991              64              444              807                   299
1992               95             375              892                   422
1993              76              436            1,003                  491
1994               50             392            1,100                   658
1995               19             393            1,107                   695
1996              89              406            1,152                   657
1997              18              390           - 1,201                  799
1998             196              409            1,236                   631
ERR = 13.3%



- 83 -                                Table 27
SIPAR
NET FOREIGN EXCHANTGE EARNINGS
(in 'OOs US$)
Foreign         Foreign         Net Foreign         Cumulative Net
Years       Exchange        Exchange           Exchange          Foreign Exchange
Earnings          Costs           Earnings              Earnings
1983           33             1,208             (1,175)
1984           46                469              (423)               (1,598)
1985          115                 28                87                (1,511)
1986           181                59               122                (1,389)
1987          174                 58               136                (1,253)
1988          244                155                89                (1,164)
1989          284                134               150                (1,104)
1990          277                 52               225                   (789)
1991          416                 64               352                   (437)
1)92          452                 95               357                    (80)
1993          597                 76               521                   441
1994          603                 50               553                   994
1995           641                19               622                 1,616
1996          693                 89               604                 2,220
1997          687                 18               669                 2,889
Note: The foreign exchange earnings over year three will cover all future
investments costs (see Table I).



- 4                                    Table 28
SIPAR
(in 'OOOs US$)
Depreciation Table
Years                   Plantation                     Factory                  Total
1984                        33                             94                    127
1985                        49                            94                     143
1986                        64                            94                     158
1987                        69                            94                     163
1988                        77                            94                     171
1989                        87                            94                     181
1990                        97                            94                     191
1991                       110                           115                     225
1992                       127                           115                     242
1993                       138                           124                     262
1994                       145                            29                     174
1995                       153                            31                     184
1996                       162                             8                     170
1997                       165                              8                    173
1998                       169                             8                     177
1,645                         1,225



- 85 -                                Table 29
SIPAR
LOAN REPAYMENT
(in 'OOOs US$)
The loan will amount to 1,849 mill:Lon US$; it will be made for
15 years, 5 years grace period,at 13.5%.
Years                Capital                 Int:erest              Total
1989                   185                      470                  655
1990                   210                      445                  655
1991                   238                      417                  655
1992                   270                      385                  655
il993                  307                      348                  655
1994                   348                      307                  655
1995                   395                      260                  655
1L996                  448                      207                  655
1997                   509                      146                  655
1L998                  577                       78                  655
3,487                   3,063                6,550



Table 30
SIPAR
INCOME STATEMENTS
(in 'OOs US$)
Years           84   85   86   87   88   89   90         91       92        93        94        95        96        97        98
Operating
Cash Flows-  343  398  501  605  670  837  941   1,008   1,252    1,372    1,506    1,548    1,593    1,737    1,752
Depreciation  127  143  158  163  171  181  191         225      242       262       174       184       170       173       177
Interest                                  470  445      417      385       348       307       260       207       146        78
Net Income    216  255  343  462  499  166  305         366      625       762    1,025    1,104    1,216    1,418    1,497
1/  Before depreciation and interests.
a%



Table 31
CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
(in 'O0s US$)
Years                       83    84    85    86    87    88    89    90    91    92    93    94    95    96    97    98
SOURCES
Operating Cash Flows              343   398   501   605   670   837   941  1008  1252  1372  1506  1548  1593  1737  1752
Bank loan                 1208   469    28
Guinean Government
Equity Participation      66
Total                     1274   812   426   501   605   670   837   941  1008  1252  1372  1506  1548  1593  1737  1752
Investments and
renewals                1274   518    28    59    38   155   134    52    64    95    76    50    19    89    18   201
Repayments                                           621   621   621   621   621   621   621                                 655  1
Total                     1274           28    59   659   786   755   673  {685   716   697    50    19    89    18   201  m
Cash Flows                   0   294   398   442   (54) (116)   82   268   323   536   675  1456  1529  1504  1719  1551  -
Cumulative Cash Flows        0   294   692  1134  1080   964  1046  1314  1637  2173  2848  4304  5833  7337  9056 10607  1



- 88 -                  Modification 1
40% Cont-ingency
SIPAR
Table 32
TOTAL rNVESTIENUTS
(in 'OOOs US$)
Years            Foreign Currency             Local Currency            Total
1983                  1,890                          66                 1,956
1984                    469                          49                   518
1985                    -28                                                28
1986                     59                                                59
1987                     38                                                38
1988                    155                                               155
1989                    134                                               134
1990                     52                                                52
1991                     64                                                64
1992                     95                                                95
1993                     76                                                76
1994                     50                                                50
1995                     19                                                19
1996                     89                                                89
1997                     18                                                18
1998                    198                                               201



Modification 1
- 89                             40% contingency
Table 33
SIPAR
INVESTMENTS AND FINANCING 1983-1985
(in''0OOs US$)
I. INVESTMENTS
Foreign Currency      Local-Currency      Total
1.  Initial Expenses             107                                  107
2.  Plantation
Pedologic studies            100                    -             100
Equipments                   221                    -             221
Civil works                   61                   25              86
3. Factory
Engineering                   60                                   60
Equipment                    400                    -             400
Building                      58                   30              88
4.  Training and T.A.            324                    -             324
5. Vehicles                       95                                   95
6. Housing & social              119                   60             179
7.  Project management           160                    -             160
8.  Contingencies                 682    -                            682
Total                    2,387                  115          2,502
Working Capital              144                   71            215
II.  FINANCING
Bank                       2,531                    -          2,531
Guinean government           -                    186            186
Total                  2,531                   186          2,717



Modification 1
- 90                      40% Contingency
SIPAR                              Table 34
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
(in '0OOs US$)
Years       Investments        Operating      Operating       Net Cash Flows
Costs         Income
1983           1,956               -              -              (1,956)
1984             518              374            717              -(175)
1985              28              404            802                 370
1986              59             497             998                 442
1987              38              574          1,179                 567
1988             155              622          1,292                 515
1989             134              596          1,433                 703
1990              52              619          1,560                 889
1991              64              703          1,711                 944
1992              95              626          1,818               1,097
1993              76              700          2,072               1,296
1994              50              653          2,159               1,456
1995              19              656          2,204               1,529
1996              89              677          2,270               1,504
1997              18              637          2,374               1,719
1998             201              643          2,395               1,511
FRR= 25%



Modification 1
40% Contingency
-91, -
Table 35
SIPAR
ECONOMIC RATE OF RE-URN
(in 'OOOs US$)
Years       Investments        Operating        Operating        Net Cash Flows
Costs          Income
1983           1-,923              _                _                 (1,923)
1984             494              233              342                  (385)
1985               28             250              374                    96
1986               59             302              471                  110
1987               38              340             558                   180
1988             155              379              603                    69
1989              134             355              665                   176
1990              52              373              731                   306
199]L              64             444              807                   299
1992               95             375              892                   422
1993              76              436            1,003                  491
1994               50             392            1,100                   658
* 1995              19              393           1,107                   695
1996               89             406            1,152                   657
1997              18              390            1,201                   799
1998             196              409            1,236                   631
ERR    9.07%



- 92-                            Modification 2
20% contingency
SIPAR                                   Table 36
TOTAL INVESTMEINiTS
(in 'OOOs US$)
Years            Foreign Currency              Local Currency            Total
1983                  1,549                          66                  1,615
1984                    469                          49                    518
1985                     28                                                 28
1986                     59                                                 59
1987                     38                                                 38
1988                    155                                                155
1989                    134                                                134
1990                     52                                                 52
1991                     64                                                 64
1992                      95                                                95
1993                     76                                                 76
1994                     50                                                 50
1995                     19.                                                19
1996                     89                                                 89
1997                     18                                                 18
1998                    198                                                201



Modification 2
- 93 -                            20% contingency
SIPAR                                   Table 37
INVESTMENTS AND FINANCING ].983-1985
(in"000s US$)
I.  INVESTMENTS
Foreign Currency      Local Currency      Total
1.  Initial Expenses              107                                  107
2.  Plantation
Pedologic studies            100                                   100
Equipments                   221                     -             221
Civil works                   61                    25              86
3.  Factory
Engineering                   60                                    60
Equipment                    400                     -             400
Building                      58                    30              88
4.  Training and T.A.             324                    -             324
5. Vehicles                        95                    -              95
6.  Housing & social             119                    60             179
7.  Contingencies                431                                   341
Total                    2,046                  115           2,161
Working Capital              144                   71             215
II. FINANCING
Bank                       2,190                    -           2,190
Guinean government           -                    186             186
Total                    2,190                  186           2,376



Modification 2
- 34 -                         20% Contingency
SIPAR                                 Table 38
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETUhY
(in 'OOOs US$)
Years       Investments        Operating      Operating       Net Cash Flows
Costs         Income
1983           1,615                                               1 615
1984             518              374            717                ?175)
1985              28              404            802                 370
1986              59              497            998                 442
1987              38              574          1,179                 567
1988             155              622          1,292                 515
1989             134              596          1,433                 703
1990              52              619          1,560                 889
1991              64              703          1,711                 944
1992              95              626          1,818               1,097
1993              76              700          2,072               1,296
1994              50              653          2,159               1,f56
1995              19              656          2,204               1,529
1996              89              677          2,270               1,504
1997              18              637          2,374               1,719
1998             201              643          2,395               1,511
FRR = 28.6%
about 29%



Modification 2
- 95 -                        20% contingency
SIPAR                                Table 39
ECONOM4TC RATE OF RETURN
(in 'OOs US$)
Years       Investments         Operating        Operating        Net Cash Flows
Costs           Income
1983            1,582               _                _                (1,582)
1984              494              233              342                  (385)
1985               28              250              374                   96
1986               59              302              471                  110
1987               38              340              558                  180
1988              155              379              603                   69
1989              134              355              665                   176
1990               52              373              731                  306
1991               64              444              807                  299
1992               95              375              892                  422
1993               76              436            1,003                  491
1994               5Q:    392                     1,100                   658
1995               19              393            1,107                  695
1996               89              406            1,152                  657
1997               18              390            1,201                  799
1998              196              409            1,236                   631
ERR =  11%



- 96 -                                 Table 40
TILE FACTORY
INVESTMENTS AND FINANCING
(In 000's US$)
I.  Investments
Foreign Currency   Local Currency        Total
1.  Initial expenses                      60                  -               60
2.  Equipments                          1766                18             1784
3.  Civil work                           106                 62             168
4.  TA and training                      168                  -              168
5.  Engineering and Assembly             500                35               535
6.  Project management                   160                 -               160
Total                2760               115              28iM
Working capital                      199                 12              211
II. Financing
Bank                                   .2959                               2959
Guinean Government                         -                127              127
2959               127            3086



Table 41
TILE FACTORY
INCOME STATEMENTS
(IN 000's US$)
1985      1986        1987       1988       1989       1990       1991       1992       1993       1994
Labor-        2/         3396       3396       3396       3396       3396       3396       3396        3396       3396       3396
Raw Materials-           4255       5318       5318       5318       5318       5318       5318       5318        5318       5318
Spares!/                 1587       1820       2116       2116       2116       2116       2116       2116        2116       2116
Overheads                 618        618        618        618        618        618        618         618        618        618
Totals         9856      11152      11448      11448      11448      11448      11448      11448       11448      11448
Sales-'                 18800      25850      28435      31279      33155      35145      37253      39488      41858       44369   s
Operating Income         8944      14698      16987      19831      21707      23697      25805      28040       30140      32921
1/ include a 10% tax
2/ include a 15% import duty
3/ assume a 10% sale price increase until 1981 and 6% increase thereafter.



- 98 -                          Table 42
TILE FACTORY
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
(000's sylis)
Investments                                            Net Cash
Years          and Renewal        Operating Costs         Sales          Flows
1983               12276                                    -12276)
1984              49105                                     - -        (49105)
1985                  -                 9856              9856           8944
1986                 -                 11152             25850          14698
1987                 -                 11148             28435          16987
1988                 -                 11448             31129          19831
1989               6859                11448             33155          14848
1990                  -                11448             35145          23697
1991               9182                11448             37253          16623
1992                  -                11448             39488          28040
1993                                   11448             41858          30140
1994                                   11448             44369          32921
FRR = 23.3%



Table 43
TILE FACTORY
ECONOMIC INCOME STATEMENTS
(in 000' sylis)
1985     1986      1987      1988      1989     1990      1991      1992      1993     1994
Labor                    1544      1544      1544      1544     1544      1544      1544      1544     1544      1544
Raw Materials            2545      3181      3181      3181     3181      3181      3181      3181     3181      3181
Spares                   1328      1583      1840     1840      1840      1840      1840      1840     1840      1840
Overheads                 493       493       493       493      493       493       493       493      493       493
Totals          5910     6801      7058      7058      7058     7058      7058      7058      7058      7058
164R87   92n68    2A60R    2nOnR    9nAnnR    2nOfnR    9nflR    9nfinR       MAfiOR    9nEAR 
Operating Income        10577    13807    13550    13550    13550    13550    13550    13550    13550    13550
1/ Border price 15 FF 56 at lUS$ - 5.8FF



- 100 -                                Table 44
TILE FACTORY
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Investments                                                 Net Cash
Years        and Renewal        Operating Costs            Sales           Flows
1983            12031                                        -           (12031)
1984            48123                  -                     -           (48123)
1985                                 5910                 16487           10577
1986                                 6801                 20608           13807
1987                                 7058                 20608           13550
1988                                 7058                 20608           13550
1989             6815                7058                 20608            6735
1990                                 7058                 20608           13550
1991             9123                7058                 20608            4427
1992                                 7058                 20608           13550
1993                                 7058                 20608           13550
1994                                 7058                 20608           13550
ERR = 13.70%



-101-                              Table 45
TILE FACTORY
INVESTIMENT AUTHORIZATION
The total investment is amortized on a straight line basis
on 10 years. 6.139 million sylis a year.
LOAN REPAYMENT
The loan will amount 2.896 millioa dollars or 61.830 million
sylis at 13.5% a year, for 10 years including a 2 year-grace period.
The repayment will be as follows (in 000's sylis).
Year                Capital               Interests               Total
1988                  8555                  12205                 20760
1989                  9711                  11049                 20760
1990                 11021                    M739                20760
1991                 12509                    3259                20760
1992                 14198                    5562                20760
1993                 16115                    4645                20760
1994                 18291                    2649                20760



Table 46
TILE FACTORY
CASH FLOWS
(in 000's sylis)
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
SOURCES
Operating income   -        -      8944   14698   16987   19831   21707   23967   25805   28040   30140   32921
Bank loan        11785   47141
Guinean Gov't
parti-
cipation           491    1964
C-
Total      12276   49105    8944  14698   16987    19831   21707   23967   25805   28040   30140   32921
USES
Instrument and
Renewal          12276   49105                                       6859             9182
Loan Repayment                                             20760   20760   20760   20760   20760   20760   20760
Total      12276   49105                              20760   27619   20760   29942   20760   20760   20760
Cash Flows                         8944  14698   16987      (929)  (5912)   3207   (4137)   7280    9380   12161
Cumulative
Cash Flows                         8944  23642   40629    39700   33788   36995   32858   40138   49518   61679



Table 47
TILE FACTORY
INCOME STATEMENTS
(including depreciation and interest payments)
(in 000's sylis)
1985     1986      1987      1988      1989       1990       1991       1992       1993      1994
Operating incomLe        8944    14698    16987    19831        21707      23967      25805      28040      30140    32921
Depreciation             6139      6139      6139      6139      6139       6139       6139       6139       6139      6139
Interest                                             12205      11049       9739       8259       6562       4645      2649
Total                    2805      8559    10848       1487      4519       8089      11407      15339      19356    24133



Modification 1
- 104 -                       40% contingencies
TILE FACTORY                                Table 48
INVESINENTS AND FINANCING
(In 000's US$)
I. Investments
Foreign Currency   Local Currency        Total
1.  Initial expernses                      60                                 60
2.  Equipments                          1766                 18             1784
3.  Civil work                           106                 62              168
4.  TA and training                      168                  -              168
5.  Engineering and Assembly             500                 35              535
6.  Project management                   160                  -              160
7.  Contingencies                       114                   -1104
Total                3864.              115             3979
Working capital                      199                 12              211
II. Financing
Bank                                    4063                               4063
Guinean Government                                          127              127
4063               127             41n9f



- 105 -                         Modification 1
TILE FACTORY                       409.tancingencies
Table 49
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETIJRN
(000's sylis)
Investments                                            Net Cash
Years          and Renewal        Operating Costs          Sales          Flows
1983               16690                                     -          16690
1984              67962                    -                 -          67962
1985                  -                  9856              9856           8944
1986                  -                 11152             25850         14698
1987                  -                 11148             28435         16987
1988                  -                 11448             31129         19831
1989                6859                11448             33155         14848
1990                  -                 11448             35145          23697
1991                9182                11448             37253         16623
1992                  -                '11448             39488          28040
199S3-                                  11448             41858         30140
1994                                    11448             44369         32921
FRR = 15.9 about 16%



Modification 1
- 106 -           40% contingencies
Table 50
TILE FACTORY
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Investments                                               Net Cash
Years       and Renewal        Operating Costs           Sales           Flows
1983            16745                                      -            (16745)
1984            61.9$80                          -                      (66980)
1985                                5910                16487           10577
1986                                6801                20608           13807
1987                                7058                20608           13550
1988                                7058                20608           13550
1989            6815                7058                20608            6735
1990                                7058                20608           13550
1991            9123                7058                20608            4427
1992                                7058                20608           13550
1993                                7058                20608           13550
1994                                7058                20608           13550
FRR= 6.3%



Modification 2
- 107 -                            20% contingencies
Table 51
TILE FACTORY
INVESTMENTS AMD FINANCING
(In 000's US$)
I.Investments
Foreign Currency   Local Currency         Total
1.  Initial expenises                      60                  -               60
2.  Equipments                           1766                18             1784
3.  Civil work                            106                62              168
4.  TA and training                       168                 -              168
5.  Engineering and Assembly              500                35              535
6.  Project management                    160                 -              160
7.  Contingencies                        552                  -               552
Total                3312                115             3427.
Working capital                       199                12              211
II.  F3nancing
Guinean Government                          -               127               127
3511               127              3638



Modification 2
- 108 -                           20% contingencies
TILE FACTORY
Table 52
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
(000's sylis)
Investments                                             Net Cash
Years           and Renewal        Operating Costs          Sales         Flows
1983               14633                                                (14633)
1984               58533                   -                 _          (5g533)
1985                  -                  9856              9856           8944
1986                  -                 11152             25850          14698
1987                  -                 11148             28435          16987
1988                  -                 11448             31129          19831
1989                6859                11448             33155          14848
1990                  -                 11448             35145          23697
1991                9182                11448             37253          16623
1992                  -                '11448             39488          28040
1993                                    11448             41858          30140
1994                  -                 11448             44369          32921
FRR =   19.14 about 19%



Modification 2
- 109 -                         20% contingencies
Table 53
TILE FACTORY
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Investments                                                  Net Cash
Years        and Renewal        Operating Costs             Sales           Flows
1983             14388                                                    (14388)
1984             57551                  _                     -           (57551)
1985                                  5910                16487            10577
1986                                  6801                20608            13807
1987                                  7058                20608            13550
1988                                  7058                20608            13550
1989             6815                 7058                 20608            6735
1990                                  7058                20608            13550
1991             9123                 7058                20608             4427
1992                                  7058                20608            13550
1993                                  7058                 20608           13550
1994                                  7058                20608            13550
FRR     9.6 about 10%



- 110 -
STONE QUARRY                             Table 54
INVESTMENTS
(in OOO'US$)
Local Currency         Foreign Currency           Total
1983                           318                       2470             2788
1984
1985
1986
1987                            11                                           11
1988                           982                                          982
1989                           768                                         768
1990                           192                                          192
1991                           167                                         167
1992                          1238                                        1238
1993                            15                                           15
1994
1995



- 111 -
r                 ~~~~~Table 55-
STONE QUARRY-                        T
INVESTMENTS AND FINANCING
(in 000'USJ)
Foreign Currency       Local Currency       Total
I. INVESTMENTS
1.  Initial expenses                    155                                  155
2.  Equipment                          1245                 33              1278
3.  Building and Civil Works            545                285               830
4.  TA & Training                       190                  -               190
5. Engineering and Site
Preparation                         175                                  175
6.  Project Management                  160                  -               160
Total              2470                318              2788
Working capital
Bank                                308                  -               308
Guinean Gov't                         -                 49                49
II. FINANCING
Bank (IDA)                         2778                                 2778
Guinean Gov't                         -                367               367
2778                367              3145



STONE QUARRY                                               Table 56
INCOME STATEMENTS
(in 000's sylis)
1984     1985      1986      1987     1988      1989      1990      1991      1992     1993
Labor l/            2418      2418      2418     2418      2418      2418     2418      2418      2418      2418
Imported Raw
Materials and
Spares2/          7505      9728      9728     9728      9728      9728     9728      9728      0728      9728
Overheads            181       181      181       181       181       181      181       181       181       181
Total Costs      11024    13472    13472    13472    13472    13472    13472    13472    13472    13472
Sales-/            20000    27500    30250    33275    35272    37387    39631    42009    44529    47201
Operating Income   8976    14028    16778    19803    21800    23915    26159    28537    31057    33729
1/ Includes the 10% tax
2/ Includes the 15% tax duty
3/ Sale price will be actual sale price (250 sylis/Ton) and has to be increased by 10% a year until
1981 and 6% thereafter.



- 113 -                              Table 57
STONE QUARRY
FRR CALCULATION
(in 000's syli.s)
Investments                                       Net Cash
and Renewals      Operating (:osts      Sales        Flows
1983                   59524                                           (59524)
1984                                       11024            20000        8976
1985                                       13472            27500       14028
1986                                       13472            30250       16778
1987                      186              13472            33275       19617
1988                   17472               13472            35272        4328
1989                   11406               13472            37387       12509
1990                     3409              13472            39631       22750
1991                     2971              13472            42009       25566
1992                   22058               13472            44529        9999
1993                      274              13472            47201       33455
FFR = 21.03%



STONE QUARRY
ECONOMIC CASH FLOWS
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Labor                1099    1099    1099    1099    1099    1099    1099    1099    1099    1099
Raw Materials
and spares          7505    9728    9728    9728    9728    9728    9728    9728    9728    9728
Overheads             139     139      139      139     139      139     139      139      139     139
Total         8743   10966   10966   10966   10966   10966   10966   10966   10966   10966
Sales               20000   27500   30250   33275   35272   37887   39631   42009   44529   47201                       H
Economic Cash
Flows             11257   16534   19284   22309   24306   26921   28665   31043   33563   36235
Ln
0o



- 115 -                          Table 59
STONE QUARRY
ERR
Investments                                  Net Cash
and Renewal    Operating Costs    Sales        Flows
1983                   56129                             - -    (56129)
1984                                    8743           20000     11257
1985                                   10966           27500     16534
1986                                   10966           30250     19284
1987                     186           10966           33275     22123
1988                   17472           10966           35272     17800
1989                   11406           10966           37887     26481
1990                    3409           10966           39631     36222
1991                    2971           10966           42009     38038
1992                   22058           10966           44529     22471
1993                     274           10966           47201     46927
FRR = 32.59 or 33%



- lib -
Table 60
STONE QUARRY
AMORTIZATION SCHEDULE
(in 000's sylis)
Note: The equipment will be amortized on a straight line basis in 5 years.
The other investments will be amortized in 10 years.
Year              Amortization
1984                  8681
1985                  8681
1986                  8681
1987                  8681
1988                  8681
1989                  6719
1990                  9000
1991                  9682
1992                 10276
1993                 10331



- 117 -                            Table 61
STONE QUARRY
LOAN REPAYMENT
The loan will amount to 2778 millionl dollars or 59310 million sylis.
It: will be made for 10 years including a 2 year grace period at 13.5%. The 8
installments will be 16195 million sylis.
Capital       Interests       Total
1986                   588:L         10314          16195
1987                   6774i           9521         16195
1988                   7576            8619         16195
1989                   55913           7597        16195
1990                   97593           6436         16195
1991                  11077            5118        16195
1992                  1257:L           3624        16195
1993                  14269)           1926         16195



Table 62
STONE QUARRY
CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
(in 000's sylis)
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
SOURCES
Operating income      -      8976   14028   16778   19803   21800   23915   26159   28531   31057   33729
Bank Loan          59310
Guinean Gov't
Equity Parti-
cipation          7836
Total          67146    8976   14028   16778   19803   21800   23915   26159   28531   31057   33729
USES
Investments and
Renewals         67146                               186   17472   11406    3409    2971   22058         274
Loan Repayment                               16195   16195   16195   16195   16195   16195   16195   16195
Total                                   16195   16381   33667   27601   19604   19166   38253   16469
Cash Flows             -    8976   14028       583    3422  (11867) (3686)    6555    9365   (7196)  17260
Cumulative Cash
Flows                -    8976   23004   23587   27009   15142   11456   18011   27376   20180   37440



Table 63
STONE QUARRY
INCOME STATEMENTS
WITH DEPRECIATION AND INTERESTS
(in 000's sylis)
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Operating incomes    8976   14028   16778   19803   21800   23915   26159   28537   31057   33729
DcXreC4a-40-                                                                             1V9A    nV VVVV  l  Vh_V
Interests                            10314    9520    8619    7597    6436    5118    3624    1926
Net income             295    5347   (2217)   1602    4500    9599   10723    13737  17157   21472



Modification 1
- 120 
40% contingencies
STONE QUARRY
Table 64
INVESTMENTS
(in 000'US$)
Local Currency         Foreign Currency          Total
1983                           318                      3458              3776
1984
1985
1986
1987                            11                                          11
1988                           982                                         982
1989                           768                                         768
1990                           192                                         192
1991                           167                                         167
1992                          1238                                        1238
1993                            15                                          15
1994
1995



- 121 -                          Modification 1
STUNE QUARRY                         40%contingencies
Table 65
INVESTMENTS AND FINANCING
(in 000'US$)
Foreign Currency       Local Currency       Total
I.  INVESTMENTS
1.  Initial expenses                    155                                   155
2. Equipment                           1245                 33              1245
3. Building and Civil Works             545                285               830
4.  TA & Training                       190                  -                190
5. Engineering and Site
Preparation                         175                  -               175
6.  Project Management                  160                  -                160
7.  Contingencies                       988                  -               988
Total              3458                38               -7T6
Working capital
Bank                                308                  49              357
Guinean Gov't                         -                 49                49
II. FINAtNCING
Bank (IDA)                         3766                                 3766
Guinean Gov't                         -                367               367
3766               367              4133



.Modification 1
-.122 -                                40% contingencies
STONE QUARRY                                   Table 66
FRR CALCULATION
(in 000's sylis)
Investments                                      Net Cash
and Renewals      Operating Costs      Sales        Flows
1983                   80618                                        ---(80618)
1984                                      11024            20000       8976
1985                                      13472            27500      14028
1986                                      13472            30250      16778
1987                     186              13472            33275      19617
1988                   17472              13472            35272       4328
1989                   11406              13472            37387      12509
1990                    3409              13472            39631      22750
1991                    2971              13472            42009      25566
1992                   22058              13472            44529       9999
1993                     274              13472            47201      33455
FeR = 13.8 about 14%



Modification 1
- 123 -
40% contingencies
Table 67
STONE QUARRY
ERR
Investments                                 Net Cash
and Renewal    Operating Costs    Sales       Flows
1983                _  {.72223)         -               -      (77223)-
1984                                   8743           20000     11257
1985                                  10966           27500     16534
1986                                  10966           30250     19284
1987                     186          10966           33275     22123
1988                  17472           10966           35272     17800
1989                   11406          10966           37887     26481
1990                    3409          10966           39631     36222
1991                    2971          10966           42009     38038
1992                  22058           10966           44529     22471
1993                     274          10966           47201     46927
ERR= 23.66%



Modification 2
- 124 -
STONE QUARRY                           20% contingencies
Table 68
INVESTMENTS
(in 000'US$)
Local Currency         Foreign Currency          Total
1983                           318                    2964               3282
1984
1985
1986
1987                            11                                         11
1988                          982                                         982
1989                          768                                         768
1990                          192                                         192
1991                          167                                         167
1992                         1238                                        1238
1993                           15                                          15
1994
1995



Modification 2
- 125 -                    20% contingencies
STONE qUAiC,,
Table 69
- INVESTMENTS AND F[NANCING
(in 000'US$)
Foreign Currency       Local Currency       Total
I. INVESTMENTS
1.  Initial expenses                    155                                   155
2.  Equipment                          1245                 33              1245
3.  Building and Civil Works            545                285               830
4.  TA & Training                       190                  -                190
5.  Engineering and Site
Preparation                         175                                  175
6.  Project Management                  160                                   160
7.  Contingencies                       494                                  494
Total              2964                318              3282
Working capital
Bank                                308                 49               351
Guinean Gov't                         -                 49                49
II. FINANCING
Bank (IDA)                         3272                                 3272
Guinean Gov't                         -                367               367
3272                367              3639



- 126 -
Table 70
STONE QUARRY
FRR CALCULATION
(in 000's sylis)
Investments                                       Net Cash
and Renewals      Operating Costs      Sales        Flows
1983                   70071                                          (70071)
1984                                      11024            20000        8976
1985                                      13472            27500       14028
1986                                      13472            30250       16778
1987                     186    r         13472            33275       19617
1988                   17472              13472            35272        4328
1989                   11406              13472            37387       12509
1990                    3409              13472            39631       22750
1991                    2971              13472            42009       25566
1992                   22058              13472            44529        9999
1993                     274              13472            47201       33455
FRR = 16.97 or 17%



Modification 2
-127-                            20% contingencies
Table 71
STONE QUARRY
ERR
Investments                                  Net Cash
and Renewal    Operating Costs    Sales         Flows
1983                   66676             -               -       (66676)
1984                                    8743           20000      11257
1985                                   10966           27500      16534
1986                                   10966           30250      19284
1987                     186           10966           33275      22123
1988                   17472           10966           35272      17800
1989                   11406           10966           37887      26481
1990                    3409           10966           39631      36222
1991                    2971           10966           42009      38038
1992                   22058           10966           44529      22471
1993                     274           10966           47201      46927
ERR     28%



- 128 -                          Annex 4
GUINEA
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
LIST OF PRIVATELY-OWNED INDUSTRIES
NO.
D tOPJD7 7              ENTflEP.ISES               OBJECT
1      SOGEDI
2      SCIERIE BARALANDE - BOKE
3      ETS ALI MIZEH                      Production Textile
4      ETS ZAIDAT                         Production Articles
Plastiques
5      LIMONADERIE MILO - KANKAN          Production Lim.onade
6      LITEPIE FAW.7AZ
7      ETS SAADI ALI
8      LITERIE DU KALOUM
9      SICAG                              Production Savon
10      NET A SEC
11      TKF
12      ATELIER SURENA
13      CLOUTEPRIE DE GUITEE
14      SOCIETE RIELISAT. IND. (SRI)       Production Miroir et
Matelas
15      NOSAKA                             Production Savon
16      METALIT
17      ETS KARAOUNI                       Production Textile
18      LITERIE AIIMA
19      LIMONADERIE ATLAS-KISSIDUGU
20      LITERIE TABEB
21      JAFFAL
22      PALNMIER KINDIA YOUSSEF 1MOEDA  Production Jus
23      LITERIE FASSOME
24      SAVONNERIE SAMI SIGUIRI
25      SAVONC=IE NONIAKAN 1EEITA SIGUIRI
SICGIIRI
26      LDMONADERIE EAFIA SODA



- 129-                              Annex 5
Page 1
GUINEA
Private Sector Promotion
Estimated Project Foregin Exchange Costs and Financing
Part I. Ministry of Small and Medium Enterprises anc Artisans
US$ Foreign Costs*
M/M    IDA       EC      CIDA        TOTAL
A. Technical Assistancel/
Expatriate Advisors in:
Economic/Technical
Feasibility Studies             36  405,000
Technology/Infrastructure          36            412,560
Financial Analysis                 36                     405,000
Accounting/Management              36                     405,000   1,627,560
B. Short-term Consultancies-/
Export Promotion                   16                     120,000
Planning & Statistics              12                       90,000
210,000
C. Staff Training '
Approximately 16 staff
members on 3 month courses    48   54,000   52,812   60,000
166,812
D. Transport, Construction &
Equipment
Passenger Vehicles (2)                            60,534
Office equipment and
machines4/
Construction of office                 100,000
annex
160,534
Sub-Total                           559,000  525,906 1,080,000  2,164,906
Part II. Credit National pour le Commerce, l'Industrie et l'Habitat: Technical Assistance
E. Technical Assistance
Expatriate Advisors:
Credit Specialist               24  275,000
Financial Operations
Management                   24            252,234
527,234
F. Staff Training
Approximately six
Fellowships                     19   54,00n
54,000
G. Transport & Equipment                    75,000
75,000
Sub-Total                          404,000 252,234        -        656,234
Contingencies 5/                       105,000  86,660    120,000    311,660
TOTAL Technical Assistance,    1,068,000 864,800  1,200,000  3,132,800
Training, Equipment



- 130 -
Annex 5
Page 2
Part III. Credit National pour le Commerce, l'Industrie et l'Habitat:
Lines of Credit
US$ Foreign Costs*
IDA           EC        CIDA        TOTAL
H. Term Lending, Capital       8,832,000                             8,832,000
Goods for SME
I.  Urban Construction                       2,959,200               2,959,200
Enterprises
J.  Micro (Artisanal)                        1,576,800               1,576,800
Enterprises
TOTAL Lines of         8,832,000    4,535,200       -       13,367,200
Credit
GRAND TOTAL            9,900,000    5,400,000  1,200,000  16,500,000



- 131 -
Annex 5
Notes to Annex 5                              Page 3
*   The average conversion rate for the 4th quarter 1981 is used to calculate
US dollar equivalents of the EC contribution (EUA = US$1.08). Estimates
for Chnadian financing hawbeen made directly in US dollar amounts.
The amount of both these contributions will be made in the donors' currencies,
not in dollar equivalents. The proposed EC contribution is EUA 5 million.
CIDA's equivalent contribution would be Caaadian $1.5 million approximately
(ITS$l = C$1.2028).
1/ The cost for an expatriate advisor financed by IDA is calculated as follows:
US$110,000 Annual salary and other consultants costs including typewriters,
calculators, office furniture, petrol and other vehicle operating
costs, water, electricity, and other normal expatriation costs
approved by Ministry SME;
20,000 Housing costs per year
15,000 Personnel passenger vehicle for entire period of contract
2/  Short-term consultancy calculated on basis of cost of $300/day and 25 days =
one man-month. Therefore,
(i) 16 mm X 25 days X$300 per day = $120,000
(ii)12 mm X 25 days X$300 per day =   90,000
3/ Each three month course calculated at average cost of
(i) IDA $9,000 per staff X 6 courses = $54,000
(ii)EC and CIDA $12,000 per staff X 10 courses = $120,000
4/ Including plan drawing equipment, photocopying machine, large calculating
machines (2), small calculating machines (2), and interphone (10 posts).
5/ IDA contingencies are calculated on the basis of a 10% per year price in-
crease.EC contingency is the amount specified by the EC mission as the
contingency allowance $52,812 plus the rounding figure of $33,868.



GUINEA
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITXTI7WAND PROMOTION PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
|_ IN 15TRE 
M                   L~~~~~DIRECTEUR DE CABINET|
J-- TR', ,_lT ',- DS P.M.E                                           IN [RECTe 6G!DE UARTISAN ;T
I-i7 .  ,
IT                                                 I                                       _LET  _~EL~T~N~
..   I   I   I   I   I   f   .  I   r           .  X ~~~~~~~~~~~~)~ I   l   k   L    
$ t viQX0 0                 Mt;|iti|f t
Z5s   X  ~  X J * o I                                                  p
,HLLLJ2~



- 133 -                              Annex 7
Page 1
GUINEA
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
MINISTRY OF SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES
AND ARTISANS
DEPARTMENT OF SME, ARTISANS, A1D COOPERATIVES
TERMS OF REFERENCE
PROJECT STUDY ADVISCR
I. General
Job T'itle: Projects Study Advisor
Duration: Three years, starting on or about __           _
Qualifications:  Experience in preparation of feasibility studies for
artisan, small and medium-scale activities in developing,
countries, wit' particular empliasis on r,arket, other
economic, and technical aspectS.  Experience ln adapting,
standard methodologies to locaL conditions and in organizian
and training staff to conduct otudies.
Larngage: French.
II. The Institution
The Department of SME was created in .L8C, and estab3lished as the main
technical assistance agency of the Ministry of SlEs in 1981, with the objective of
promoting the development of private sector Guinean enterprises. To this end, a major
service to entrepreneurs wqill be preparation andl review of project feasibility
studies up to the stage of readiness for Bank loan application.  Oni-site
assistan.ce i'?i11  include teclhnical, ,anagement, and accountinag advice and
practical short-term training of enterprise perSonncl in these fields.



- 134 -                              Annex 7
Page 2
Services will be offered to all size private enterprises and tailored
to their requirements. All service units of the Minist of SMEs will be
centralized in Conakry. Assistance to private sector enterprises in the regions
will be provided directly by staff on assignment from Conakry.
III. Job Description
The Project's Study Advisor will direct the Studies Section in
the Bureau d'Etudes et Suivi and he will be responsible to the Director
of the Bureau. The Studies Section will receive all the project dossiers
that are candidates for feasibility studies.  It will be the advisor's job
to work closay with the director to establish a work program for his section
and to supervise its implementation. This will entail selecting or adapting
methodologies suitable to various size projects to be handled; on-the-job
training of his staff; and, coordination in the other technical divisions
(infrastructure and civil engintering, accounting and management, finance
and trade) who may contribute inputs to feasibility studies.  He will also
advise the director on the function of the Follow-up Section, especially
if initially the two sections share staff. The advisor will also assist
in identifying staff candidates for short-term training in Guinea or in
other countries.
IV. Terms and Conditions
Finance for the post is assured by IDA as part of a
project to assist private sector enterprises. The candidate chosen
must be acceptable to IDA; the terms and conditions of the contract will be
negotiated between the Ministry of SME and the candidate with the review of
IDA. Terms and conditions should be substantially in accord with those offered
other expatriates in the project.



- 135 -                 ~~~~Annex 7a
Page 1
GUINEA
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION AND PROUOTION PROJECT
MINISTRY OF SMALL AND MEDIUM EiTERPRISES
AND ARTISANS
DEPARTMENT OF SME, ARTISANS, AND COOPERATIVES
TERMS OF REFERENCE
INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING ADVISOR
I. General
Job Title: Industrial Engineering Advisor.
Duration:  Three years, starting on or about
Qualifications:  Knowledge in fields industrial., mechanical, or electrical
engineering. Experience in identifying and
working with technical problems at the level of artisans
small and medium industries.  P^lso, experience with problems
.of installing appropriate technologies in developing countries
is highly desirable.
Languag_: French.
II. The Institution
The Department of SMIE was created in 1980, and established as the main
technical assistance agency of the Ministry4fSME in 1981, with the objective of prom-
oting the development of private sector Guinean enterprises. To this end, a major
service to entrepreneurs will be preparation ani review of project feasibility
studies up to the stage of readiness for Bank 1ban application. On-site
assistance will include technical, rnanagement, 3nd accounting advice and
practical short-term training of enterprise personnel in these fields.



Annex 7a
- 136-                           Page2
Services will be offered to all size private enterprises and tailored
to their requirements. All services units of the Ministry of SMEs will be centralized
in Conakry. Assistance to private sector enterprises in the regions will
be provided directly by staff on assignment fror,m Conakry.
III. Job DescriDtion
The function of the Infrastructure and Technology Division is
to advise and assist entrepreneurs on infrastrtucture required, construction
plans and estimates, plant installations, choice of tecinology and production
organization. Also, practical technical courses for example, in machinery
maintenance will be planned and offered by division staff and available
outside experts. The expert will hold the position of advisor to the chief
of the division to assist in developing a realistic approach to these tasks. At
the same  tim,e, he will be responsible for direction of the industr al engineer
section and, as section head, he will organize and supervise a work program
of on-site technical assistance to enterprises, on-site practical training
and follow-up. The Ministry of SMEs does not have branches as such, but will work
in the regions as the demandarises. Since the staff does not have much experience
in dealing with enterprises and artisans in the private sector, the section
chief will focus on training his staff on-the-job, identify candidates for
further training in short term courses in Cuinea or outside the country,
and assist in finding suitable courses where attendance ?would be eligible
for financing under the IDA/EEC-financed SME project.



Annex 7a
- 137 -                          Page 3
IV. Terms and Conclitions
Finance for the post is assured by t:he EEC as part of a project
to assist private sector enterprises. The candidate chosen must be acceptable
to the EEC and IDA; the terms and conditions cf the contract will be
negotiated between the Ministry of SMEs and the candidate with the review of
EEC.



Annex 7b
-138 -                            Page 1
GUINEA
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
MINISTRY OF SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES
AND ARTISANS
DEPARTMENT OF SME, ARTISANS, AND COOPERATIVES
TERMS OF REFERENCE
ACCOUNTING AND MANAGEMENT ADVISOR
I. General
Job Title:  Accounting and ManageTrent Advisor.
Duratinn:  Two years, starting on or about
Qualifications:  Experience in business accounting and management techniques
at the working level. Experience in providing basic
accounting assistance and management advice to artisans
and SMEs in developing countries is highly desirable.
Languae:  French.
II. The Institution
The Department of SME was created in 1980, and eotablisthed as the main
technical assistance agency of the Ministry of SMEs in 1981, with the objective of
promoting the development of private sector Guinean enterprises. To this end, a major
service to entrepreneurs will be.preparation anid review of project feasibility
studies up to the stage of readiness for Bank loan application. On-site
assistance will include technical, nanagement, and accounting advice and
practical short-term training of enterprise personnel in these fields.
Services will be offered to all size Drivate enterprises and tailored
to their requirements. All services units of the Ministry of SMEs will be
centralized in Conakry. Assistance to private sector enterprises in the regions
will be provided directly by staff on assignment from Conakry.



Annex 7b
Page 2
- 139 -
III. Job Description
Services to entrepreneurs include conducting and reviewing
feasibility studies and preparation of project dossiers for applicatioin
for bank loans. At times he will direct the Accounting/Management Section
which will entail identifying management and accounting problems of
SME in order to establish a program of assistarLce to enterprises and
follow-up.  In implementing the program he will train his staff on-the-job.
IV. Terms and Conditions
Finance for the post is assured by ClDA as part of a
project to promote the private sector.  The cardidate chosen must be
acceptable to CIDA and to IDA;  the terms and conditions of the contract
will be negotiated between the Ministry of SMEs and the candidate with the
review of CIDA. Terms and Conditions should be substantially in accord with those
offered other expatriates in Guinea.



Annex 7c
- 140-                          Page 1
GUINEA
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
MINISTRY OF SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES
AND ARTISANS
DEPARTMENT OF SME, ARTISANS, AND COOPERATIVE
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ADVISOR
I. General
Job Title: Financial Analysis Advisor.
Duration:  Two years, starting on or about  __
Qualifications:   Experience in financial analysis of artisan, smnall and
medium enterprises.  Experience in training and supervising
personnel in financial analytical techniques.
Language: French.
II.  The Institution
The Department of SME was created in 1980, and es'tablished as the main
technical assistance agency of the Ministry of SMEs in 1981, with the objective  of
promoting the development of private sector Guinean enterprises. To this end, a major
service to entrepreneurs will be preparation and review of project feasibility
studies up to the stage of readiness for Bank loan application. On-site
assistance will include technical, management, and accounting advice and
practical short--term training of enterprise personnel in these fields.
Services will be offered to all size private enterprises and tailored
to their requirements.  All services units of the Ministry of SMEs will be centralized
in Conakry.  Assistance to private sector enterprises in the rcions will
be provided directly by staff on assignment from Conakry.



Annex 7c
-141-                            Page 2
III. Job Description
The expert will. direct the project Financial Analysis Section
of the Finarce and Trade iivision.  The Bureau d'Etudes et Suivi will.
send project dossiers with completed economic and techinical feasibility
studies to this section. The Sectiorn Chief willL supervise the review and
collection of financial data from the enterprises. He will select or
adapt analytical mrlethods appropriate to artisanal activities, SME, and
cooperatives and train his staff on-the-job on 'heir use. The financial
anal,tical techniques and nmodels must be acceptable to the CINCIII.  The
Advisor will work closely with the Director of The Divi4ion to help build
up a good worlkng relationship with CNCITI.
IV.  Terms and Conditions
Finanice for the post is assured by CIIIA as part of a
project to promote the private sector.  The candidate chosen must be
acceptable to CIDA and to IDA; the- terms and conditions of the contract
will be negotiated between the Ministry of SMEs and the candidate with the review
of CIDA. Terms and conditions should be substant:ially in accord with those offered
other expatriates in Guinea.



Annex 8
Page 1
GUINEA
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION,PROJECT
ENTERPRISES VISITED, JUNE 1981
Branch of Activity               Ownerships                 Technology              Location         Characteristics
Food Processing
1. Bakery Rodas                  Private/Voltaique          Modern (depreciated)   Conakry           imported wheat flour;expo
ag.products to get
import; rents bldg/equip
from state.
Textiles
2. Ready-to-wear garments        Coop (110 members)         Modern                   Conakry         School uniform contracts
3. Knitting & Printing           Private/Lebanese           Modern                   Conakry         Synthetic & cotton
4. Fnitting (underwear)          Private/Lebanese           Modern                   Conakry         Cotton-imported thread
5. Weaving (terry cloth)         Private/Lebanese           Modern                   Conakry         Cotton "   It
6. W,eaving (cloth)              Coop                       Artisanal                Kindia          Imported thread
7. Tie and dyeing                Coop (750 members)         Artisanal               Kindia           Imported cloth        H
was 1503
Leather & Products                                    -
8. Leather products, repairs    Coop (56 members,           Artisanal                Kindia          Local leather;imported
upholstery (synthetic)         was 150)                                                           synthetic leather.
with tannery
Wood & Wood Products
9. Sculptured products           Coop (10 members)          Artisanal                Kindia
lO.Furniture                     Private/Voltaique          Modern                  Conakry          Local pressed board,
plywood,imported plastic
sheoets.
ll.Saw mill                      Private/Voltaique          Modern(depreciated)    Kindia



Annex 8
Page 2
Chemicalca 
12. Soap Making SICAG            Private/French            Modern (depreciated)   Conakry
13. Soap Making FAIWAZ           Private/Lebanese          Modern (new plant)      Conakry
14. Plastic Products             Private/Lebanese          Modern (extended &      Conakry         Attached to other factory
molded)                               complex (see no.19)
15. Bottled oxygen/Acetylene    Private/                   Modern (partially       Conakry         depends on aluminum
i                                            renev-ed,mostly dep.)                   complex FRIA
16. Foam mattresses              Private/Lebanese          Modern (new)            Conakry
17. Foam mattresses                "      "                Modern (plastic goods) Conakry          3-100 employees
18. Foam mattresses                  f                     Modern                  Conakry
Paper Products
19. Cartons,valises              Private/Lebanese          Modern (cartons-old;   Conakry          85 up to 130 employees
valises-new)
Metal Fabrication
20. Agricult.equipment           Private/Voltaique         Modern (pilot project) Conakry
(m.ills)
21. Produits (soldering)         Private/Voltaique        Mlodern                  Conakry         Attached to 22
22. Galvanized buckets           Private/Lebanese          Modern                  Conakry         Attached to 13
Miscellaneous
23. Mirror (silver backing)      Private/Lebanese          Modern                  Conakry         Attached to 17.
Service Industries
24. Auto Repair Garage           Private/Voltaique         Modern                  Conakry
25. Dry cleaning/laundry         Private/Voltaique         Modern (new plant)      Conakry



- 144-                           Annex 9
Page 1
GUINEA
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
MINISTRY OF SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES AND ARTISANS
PROJECT APPLICATION FOR CREDIT
IN FOREIGN EXCHANGE 1980/1981
Type              Amount
Branch of Activity                        Project           (US$'000)
Food Proceesin? & Eeverag-es
Bakeries (24 projects)                    2N/22R             2,580
Ice-makirg                                 N                    76
Tomato Canningr (Agrc-Indus)               N                 6,000
Guincaii Tean Processing (Agro-Ind)        N                 5,000
Soft Drinkl Cannine:                       N                 3,000
Clothtinr    d T:tilo
Tie-dyinr  Cooperative                     R                   100
Weaving Cocpera.-.ve                       E                    60
Garr,:ent Factory                          N                   650
Leatlher & Products
Leather and Shoe Repair Coop               E                    30
Wood & IWlood Prod,ucts
Sculptulred products Coop                  E                    70
Saw nill                                   R                   140
Chenic1 Procucts
Plastic Bags                               N                 7,760
Soap-Making                                E                   773
Foam mattresses & cther products           N                 1,000
Construction MIaterials
Quarrying                                  N                   415
Granite Decorative Stones                  N                   215
Paper Products
Hygienic Paper Products                    N                   500
. . ./I. . .



Annex 9
Page 2
145-
Metal Fabric.t *on
Agriculture EquIpmcn'ut                    E                   600
Calvanizcd Prod ucts                       E                   500
Services
Dry Clcaning & Cormnercial Laundry         E                   778
Photograplhy Studio/Electronic
Repair                                  N                   225
Hotcl/Cinerua                              R                    26
Total                          13N               $30,498
2 5R
7E
N = New
R = Rchabilication
E e Expansion



Annex 10
- 146 -                  Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIQUE POPULAIRE
REVOLUTIONNAIRE DE GUINEE                       Travail - Justice - Solidarite
ASSEMBLEE POPULAIRE NATIONALE
LOI NO. 005/APN/80 INSTITUANT UN CODE
DES INVESTISSEMENTS EN REPUBLIQUE
POPULAIRE REVOLUTIONNAIRE DE GUINEE
L'ASSEMBLEE POPULAIRE NATIONALE
VU les Articles 7, 9, 14 et 15 de la Constitution,
Apras en avoir delibere;
Adopte la loi dont la teneur suit:
TITRE I:  DOMAINE D'APPLICATION
ARTICLE 1ER - Peuvent beneficier des avantages du present Code, les investissements
reputes prioritaires en realisant une ou plusieurs actions du Plan de Developpement
Economique et Socia ou ceux dont l'objet reste un interet tout particulier pour
le developpement de l'conomie Guingenne.
ARTICLE 2- Les entreprises deja existantes peuvent egalement beneficier des
avantages du present Code a l'occasion d'une extension ou d'une modernisation
importante de leur activitg mais seulement dans la presentation des nouveaux
investissements.
ARTICLE 3 -peuvent e^tre agreees au regime d'entreprise prioritaire les
categories ci-apres:
a - les industries minieres d'extraction, d'enrichissement ou la transformation
de substance minerale
b - les entreprises industrielles de preparation et de transformation mecanique
ou chimique
c - les industries de fabrication et de montage des articles et objets de
grande consommation.
d - les entreprises agricoles et de genie rural,
e - les entreprises de travaux publics et de transport
f - les entreprises immobiliares ou hoteliares.



Annex 10
Page 2 of 6
- 147 -
TITRE II - CONDITIONNEMENTS D'AGREMENT
ARTICLE 4 - Peuvent etre agreees au benefice des dispositions du present
Code les entreprises qui soumettent un programme d'investissement comportant
au moins les six (6) documents prdvisionnels suivants:
a - Un plan d'investissement et un plan de financement an devises etrangeres
et en monnaie Guineenne
b - UTn plan de production en volume et en valeur avec indication d'une
periode totale et d'un ech6ancier annuel
c - Un plan d'importation et d'exportation en volume et en valeur avec
indication d'une periode totale et d'un echeancier annuel
d - Un plan d'emploi avec precisions sur le programme de formation professionnelle
et d'action sociale et un plan d'Africanisation en rapport avec le
programme de formation
e - Un plan de restitution des sites a la nature dans le cas d'une industrie
extractive ou forestiere
f - Un programme de protection de l'environnement et notamment un plan de
recuperation des dechets d'usine.
ARTICLE 5 - Toute entreprise ayant pour objet l]'exportation d'une ressource
naturelle doit, de preference, etre constituee en socifte d'economie mixte regie
par. une convention particuliere.
ARTICLE 6 - Les entreprises visees a l'article 5 ci-dessus ne pourront beneficier
de l'agrement que si elles s'engagent a passer dans un delai qui sera fixe
d'accord parties a la phase de   transformation  de la ressource naturelle en
un produit plus elabore.
TITRE III - DEMANDE D'AGREMENT
ARTICLE 7 -
a - Toute entreprise sollicitant l'octroi de l'agrement doit en formuler la
demande aupras du Ministare charge du Plan.
b - Toute demande devra etre accompagnee d'un dossier comportant les documents
prevus a l'article 4 ci-dessus
c - La decision d'agrement devra intervenir dans un delai de trois (3) mois
a compter de la date de presentation du dossier complet.
d - En cas de rejet de la demande, notification en sera faite au demandeur
par le Ministre charge du Plan dans le m^eme delai.



Annex 10
- 148-                    Page 3 of 6
ARTICLE 8 - Apres examen et etude, Le Ministere charge du Plan soumet le dossier
avec avis a la procedure d'approbation en vigueur.
TITRE IV - AVANTAGES PARTICULIERS ACCORDES AUX INVESTISSEMENTS
ARTICLE 9 - Tous les investissements agrees en vertu du present Code
beneficieront de mesure d'exoneration ou d'allegement fiscal. Le regime
privilegie est toutefois progressif selon l'interet et l'importance des dits
investissements au regard du developpement economique du pays.  La durge
et l'etendue du privilege sont a preciser par le texte d'agrement.
ARTICLE 10 - PHASE DE CONSTRUCTION OU D'INSTALLATION
Tous les biens d'equipement, materiels et matieres premieres necessaires aux
etudes et aux travaux d'infrastructure, au montage ainsi qu'a l'extension
et la modernisation des unites existantes seront, a l'importation exonere&s
des droits de douane et autres taxes normalement percues.
Toutefois, sont exclus du benefice de cette exoneration les biens d'equipements,
outillage, materiels et matieres premieres qui peuvent etre fournis par
l'industrie guineenne dans la limite d'une majoration de prix de 10% a des
conditions de qualit& et delais de livraison equivalentes.
Sauf derogation accordee par le Ministre charge des Finances apres avis du
Ministre charge du Plan, les biens d'6quipement, outillages materiels et
matiares ayant beneficie du regime institue par le present code pourront recevoir
pendant un delai de 5 ans, d'autres utilisations que celles pour lesquelles ils
ont ete importes.
Un tel changement de destination annule les avantages consentis par le
Decret d'agrement a moins qu'ils ne bdn6ficient a une entreprise agreee.
ARTICLE 11 - PHASE DE DEMARRAGE
Durant une periode ne depassant pas 5 ans a partir de la date de la premiere
operation de production et selon l'importance de l'investissement et de la
nature des activites, il sera accorde a,l'entreprise agreee, une exoneration
totale ou partielle des droits d'entree perc-us sur les matieres premiares,
pieces de reproduction.
Des avantages identiques pourront etre accordes en ce qui concerne les droits
de sortie applicables aux produits de sa fabrication.
ARTICLE 12 - PHASE D'EXPLOITATION
Durant la periode de pleine exploitation, les matieres premieres entrant
directement dans le processus de fabrication, les machines et pieces de



Annex 10
_ 149                       Page 4 of 6
rechange, elements de machines entrant directement ou indirectement dans la
production, les engins, vehicules de carri6res et locomotives seront soumis
a un droit conventionnel.
La liste de ces articles sera etablie d'accorl parties avant les travaux
de construction et precisee apres le demarrage.
ARTICLE 13 - Les articles produits par les entreprises agreees pourront
beneficier de la protection douaniare sur toute l'tendue du marche guineen.
ARTICLE 14 - Les entreprises agreees relavent de deux regimes speciaux
appeles le regime A et le regime B; les entreprises non comprises dans ces
deux categories sont regies par le droit commun.
ARTICLE 15 - Relavent du regime A les petites et moyennes entreprises
necessitant pour leur agrement un investissement d'au moins 25 millions de
Sylis rEalisable en trois ans au maximum.
ARTICLE 16 - Les avantages fiscaux sont accordes aux entreprises relevant
du regime A pour une periode ne depassant pas 7 ans compte tenu du lieu
d'implantation et de la nature de leurs activites.
ARTICLE 17 - Les avantages vises a l'article 16 ci-dessus pourront comporter
suivant les cas:
a - 1'exoneration totale ou partielle de l'imp8t sur les benefices industriels
et commerciaux et la taxe d'apprentissage a partir de l'exercice au
cours duquel a ete realisee la premiare vente (en Guinee ou a l'exterieur).
b - 1'exoneration totale ou partielle de la contribution fonciere batie de la
patente et la taxe d'habitation. L'exoneration de la contribution fonciare
batie peut ^etre totale ou definitive pour les entreprises immobiliares.
c - 1'exoneration totale ou partielle de l'imp8t sur les revenus des valeurs
mobilieres.
d - 1'exoneration totale des taxes sur les cbiffres d'affaires et le droit
de timbres proportionnel sur la partie de la production consomm6e
en Guinee.
e - 1'exoneration totale ou partielle des droits d'enregistrement
f - 1'exoneration totale ou partielle du versement forfaitaire au titre de
la contribution patronale.



Annex 10
- 150 -                  Page 5 of 6
ARTICLE 18 - Relavent du regime B, les entreprises dont les activites sont
jugees prioritaires dans le developpement economique et social de la Guinee.
Ces entreprises, eu egard a l'importance particuliere du volume de leurs
investissements, a la longue periode d'implantation avant de trouver le
rythme normal d'exploitation et la necessite d'adopter des mesures exception-
nelles que requiert leur implantation, pourront demander leur agrement en vue
de conclure avec le Gouvernement Guineen une convention d'etablissement
comportant l'exoneration de certains impots et taxes et l'octroi d'un regime
fiscal de longue duree n'exc6dant pas 25 ans.
ARTICLE 19 - Durant toute la periode de validite du regime fiscal de
longue duree tous les impots et taxes applicables aux entreprises b6neficiaires
d'une convention d'etablissement, qu'ils soient vises ou non par ladite
convention d'6tablissement, ne pourront faire l'objet d'aucune modification
tant dans leur assiette et leurs taux que dans leur modalite de perception.
Ils demeurent stabilises tels qu'ils existent a la date des accords
d'etablissement.
ARTICLE 20 .- Pendant la periode d'application du regime fiscal stabilise
toute disposition legislative ou reglementaire qui aurait pour effet de
controviser les prescriptions de l'article precedant ne sera applicable aux
entreprises b6n6ficiaires des avantages du present Code.
ARTICLE 21 - En cas de modification du r6gime fiscal de droit commun, dans
un sens plus favorable, l'entreprise titulaire d'un regime fiscal
stabilise peut demander le benefice desdites modifications.
L'entreprise peut egalement demander a etre replacee sous le regime du droit
commun.
Article 22 - Les modalites d'application des dispositions prevues dans les
articles 18 a 21 seront precisees dans la convention.
TITRE V- CONDITIONS D'AMORTISSEMENT ET REGLES DE TRANSFERT
ARTICLE 23 - Le droit de transfert des capitaux et de leurs revenus
garanti aux personnes physiques ou morales etrangeres qui ont procede
ou participe au financement d'un investissement.
Les taux de transfert seront fixes dans les Conventions d'etablissement ou
de Decret d'agrement.



Annex 10
Page 6 of 6
- 151-
ARTICLE 24 - Les transferts seront effectues par l'intermediaire de la
Banque Centrale de la Republique de Guinee.
TITRE VI - AUTRES GARANTIES
ARTICLE 25 - Une convention d'etablissement fixant et garantissant les
conditions de creation et de fonctionnement de l'entreprise agrge
pourra etre etablie et comporter des garanties generales en matieres
de recrutement et de circulation de la main d"oeuvre, de la liberte de
1'emploi dans le cadre de la legislation du travail de la Republique de
Guinee, du renouvellement de certaines autorisations comme le permis
d'exploitation.
ARTICLE 26 - Les capitaux etrangers investis en Guinee jouiront de la
protection et de la securite              dans le cadre et le respect
des Lois et reglements, les personnes physiques ou morales qui les
investissent etant garanties contre toute spol.iation.
TITRE VII - SANCTIONS
ARTICLE 27 - Au cas ou l'entreprise bgngficiaiie ne respecterait pas les
donnees essentielles du programme qu'elle a fcurnies pour justifier
sa demande d'agreement, le Gouvernement, sur proposition de la Commission
Nationale des Investissements, prononcera par decret le retrait de
1.'agrement.
La decision de retrait ne pourra intervenir qCtapr6s mise en demeure par le
Ministre de tutelle non suivie d'effet dans ur. delai de 60 jours et a
la suite de manquements graves du^ment constatts.
TITRE IX- DISPOSITIONS FINALES
ARTICLE 28 - Sont abrogees toutes dispositions anterieures contraires au
present Code.
ARTICLE 29 - La presente Loi sera enregistree et publiee au Journal Officiel
de la Republique Populaire Revolutionnaire de Guinee.
Ainsi deliber6 et adopte en seance publique
Conakry, le 20 fevrier 1980
LE PRESIDENT DE I'ASSEMBLEE POPULAIRE NATIONALE
DAMANTANG CAMARA
POUR COPIE CERTIFIEE CONFORME,
CONAKRY, LE 6 MAI 1980
LE CHEF DE CABINET DU M. I.
LAYE KOUROUMA



Annex 11
-152-                         Page 1 of 2
OG- p EPUBLIQUE .7Y C?PUTIRE   ( EVOLUTIONSIRE DE Z-JINEE -o=-
_rX. II-1TSTERE  DE  L   N D U S T R I E
~fJDFFICE ..42'ATIQNAL DEjROMOTION DE P1TITES ET _AOYEITNES
si~TREPRIKEs
ND3:TION S   DD               J-TIG REI 1{ E N T
(POUR LI ETUDE DI UN DOSSIER A LI 0                *
Peuvent b6neficier des dispositicns du code Gutineen des investissemcnts apres
6tude,les investissseurs potentiels qui fournissent un dossier comportant les
i) une dcinande(sur papier libre adress6e au IIinistre de l'In-
dustrie);
2) u.n curriculwr vitae(pour chacvun des associ6s);
3) un plan d'investisscnment ct de financemcnt(en devise et en
Sylis avoc des pr6cisions sur les sources dc finiancement)
4) ull pla: de production oi volume et en valeur avec indication
d'mue periodc totale et d'um 6ch6ancier annucel;
5) un plan dlemDloi avec pr_cision sur le programme de formation
professionn.ol1c ct d'action socialc;
6) u.t plan de protection dc 1c?nvironrnnent;(1)
7) vua casicr judiciairc;
8) tne copic dc la cartc d1Idontit6 ou dc l'extrait de naissance
(&vcc ute pho ).
Aucun dossier incom-plet nc pcut faire lobjet d'unc 6tudc.
LtO,N.P. attire srn4cialcmcnt ilattention dos persomies desircuses dtinvestir cn
Guin6e sur le fait quv  le Hfin4st6rc de l1Industric considerc actuellement conno
prioritaires(2),lcs Vetites ct .lcycmic.ls lztrmpriscs priv cs qui opercnt essen-
tiellamcnt dz'is lcs dr,-aines ci-aprcls:
/*J...



Annex 11
- 153 -                        Page 2 of 2
- ALIEfI-TATION: Boul.angcric - Patisscric - Conscrvcric de fruits - poisson -
Viande - torr6faction - boissons non alcoolis6e,KLikeiIliba)
plantation - pCchc et dlevage - decorticage de riz - mals -
arachido - extraction de scl marin  -
- MEGAMIQUE ET CHII;IE: Rcparation des pi6ces auto; moto at moto-cycles;bat-
tcric; piles 6lectriqucs; r6frig6rateurs et cong6latcurs,
cngins agricoles etc....
- XATERIAUX DE CONSTRUCTIOMI:Briquos cuites ou en cimcnt; portcs ct fcnctres;
pointes et serryros; fil do for; charpcntos m6tal-
liqucs ou en bois; sables ot graviers; meublos dc
maisoni ou de burcaux; tvyaux do canalisation;
ustensiles dc mncnage ctc.,,
Par ailleurs,toutes lcs entrepriscs non exon6r6cs dtimp8ts sont tenucs de se
mettre constamment Ln rapport avcc le-servicc des Contributions Diverses.
PRET PO'JR LA REVOLUTION
(1) Pour les exploitations forQsti6rQs ct les carri6ros,le code des investis-
scmeonts exige qu'un1 plan dc restitution des sites A la naturc soit dOucnt
pr(-scnt6 a l'O.N.P. 
(2) Ccttc liste des activitds consid6r&cs conmic prioritaires est puroment in-
dicative./,-



Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
Estimated Profile of IDA Disbursements -
(US$ 000)                                           Quarterly   Cumulative
Year.l:  1982/83   (4 % of US 19 million = US$ 760,000)
Quarter ending September 30, 1982 (including PPF I and II)                                       600          600
Quarter ending December 31, 1982                                                                  53          653
Quarter ending March 31, 1983                                                                     53          706
Quarter ending June 30, 1983                                                                      54          760
Year 2:  1983/84 (25 % Cumulative US$ 4.750 million - US$ 0.760 = US$ 3.990 million)
Quarter ending September 30. 1983                                                                997        1,757
Quarter ending December 31, 1983                                                                 997        2,754
Quarter ending March 31, 1984                                                                    998        3,752
Quarter ending June 30, 1984                                                                     998        4,750
Year 3:  1984/85  (45 % Cumulative US$ 8.550 million - US$ 4.750 = US$ 3.800 million)
Quarter ending September 30, 1984                                                                 950       5,700
Quarter ending December 31, 1984^                                                                 950       6,650
Quarter ending March 31, 1985                                                                     950       7,600         >
Quarter ending June 30, 1985                                                                      950       8,550
Year 4:  1985/86  (67 % Cumulative US$ 12.730 million - US$ 8.550 - US$ 4.180 million)
Quarter ending September 30, 1985                                                               1,045        9,595
Quarter ending December 31, 1985                                                               1,045       10,640
Quarter ending Mlarch 31, 1986                                                                 1,045       11,685
Quarter ending June 30, 1986                                                                   1,045       12,730
Year 5:  1986/87  (82% Cumulative US$ 15.580-US$ 12.730 million = US$ 2,850 million)
Quarter ending September 30, 1986                                                                 712      13,442
Quarter ending December 31, 1986                                                                  712      14,154
Quarter ending March 31, 1987                                                                     713      14,867
Quarter ending June 30, 1987                                                                      713      15,580
1/  Based on combined historical profiles of IDA-financed DFC and Industrial Projects between 1970 and 1980,
but deliberately limited to a 6-year disbursement period.



Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
Quarterly Cumulative
Year 6:  1987/88 (Balance i.e. US$19 million - US$ 15,580 million = US$ 3.420 million)
Quarter ending September 30, 1987                                                                   855       16,435
Quarter ending December 31, 1987                                                                    855       17,290
Quarter ending March 31, 1988                                                                       855       18,145
Quarter ending June 30, 1988                                                                        855       19,000
!
lA
Un



- 156 -                         Annex 13
GUINEA
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
Proposed IDA Disbursement Categories
(US$'000)
Category                    Description                         Basis           Amount
I       Turnkey or Package Contracts and supply                               4,000
of plant, equipment, vehicles, civil                100%  f
works for state-owned enterprises
foreign
costs, or8,0
II      Plant machinery, equipment, vehicles and             70%  of          8,000
materials for privately-owned enterprises            cost of
III     Vehicles, equipment and building materials           imported           220
for Ministry of Industry, Min. SME. and             puchs
CNCIH                                              purchased
CN_IH  in Guinea
IV      Consultant and audit services,  studies,             100% of          1,600
technical assistance, training and                  foreign
scholarships                                        expenditures
V       Expatriate Housing-/                                 100% of            180
total
expenditures
VI      Unallocated                                          To be            5,000
determined
19,000
1/ 3 houses: one each for Ministry of Industry, Min. SME, CNCIH expatriate staff.
As explained in the report, most of this financing is designed to pay for
imported construction material.



- 157 -                     Annex 14
GUINEA
tNDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION AND P'ROMOTION PROJECT
List of Documents in The Project File
Industrial Sector.
1. Guinea IDF Reconnaissance Mission. Back-to-Office Report
(Uche Mbanefo, December 13, 1979)
2.  Guinea _ tDF Sector Review (Uche Mb.nefo, January 1980).
3. Guinea - Survey of the Public Enterprise Sector
(Myrna Alexander, June 1980).
Financial Sector.
4. Credit National pour le Commerce, l'Industrie et l'Habitat (CNCIH):
- Statute
- Accounts
- Proposals of the Director General relative to the project.
Private Sector Development - Ministry of Small and Medium Enterprises
and Artisans (Min. SME).
5. Decree creating the Office National de Promotion des'Petites
et Moyennes Entreprises (ONP)
6.  Decree creating Ministry of SME and Artisans
7. Investment Code
8. Investment Incentive Decree for Guineans repatriating
funds to Guinea.
9. Conditions for the Granting of Investment Code Privileges
10.  Cost Estimates for the Proposed Anne:x to the Min. SME
Office Building.
Feasibility Studies for Rehabilitation.
11.  Station Autonome de Seretou (Quinine) - SOFRECO, France.
12.  SIPAR, Labe (Essential Oils) - SETEC, France.
13.  Ceramic Floor Tiles, Matoto - SETEC, France.
14.  SONACAG - Stone Quarry - SETEC, France.
15.  Brick Factory of Kobaya - GITEC, Geriaany.
16.  SONACAG State Quarry, Labe - SETEC, France.



