Document of    F11 L E  C 0 P Y
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3203-GUI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
April 8, 1982
I This document hbs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oely in the perfonnance of
their dofiial duties. Its eontens may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
The official monetary unit is the Syli
Syli 1             =    US$0.05
US$1               =    Syli 21.35
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNC       -  Conseil National du Credit
CNCIH     -  Credit National pour le Commerce, l'Industrie et 1'Habitat
IMPORTEX  -  State Importing Agency
MI        -  Ministry of Industry
MSNE      -  Ministry of Small and Medium Enterprise
OCOFI     -  Organisation pour la Coordination Financiere de l'Industrie
PPF       -  Project Preparation Facility
SME       -  Small and Medium Scale Enterprise
SONACAG   -  Societe Nationale de Carreaux et de Granite
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1   -   December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea
Beneficiaries:  Proceeds of the Credit would be relent by the Credit National
pour le Commerce, l'Industrie et l'Habitat (CNCIH) as loans to
private enterprises and four state enterprises, passed on as
equity to the state enterprises, and granted as assistance
to CNCIH, Ministry of 'Industry (MI) and Ministry of Small
and Medium Entreprise (MSME).
Amount:          SDR 16.6 million (US$19 million equivalent).
Terms:           Standard
Relending
Terms:          The Credit proceeds would be passed to CNCIH at not less than
10 percent per annum and relent by CNCIH to state and private
enterprises at not less than 13 percent per annum.
Project
Description:   The principal objectives of the project would be to support
Government's industrial strategy through strengthening the
private productive sector, improving the performance of
selected state industrial enterprises and strengthening
industrial sector policy formulation and project preparation.
The project would: (a) provide term credit through CNCIH for
private sector investment; (b) finance rehabilitation of four
state industrial enterprises; (c) provide technical assistance:
to the Ministry of Industry (MI) for planning and feasibility
studies, to the Ministry of Small and Medium Enterprise (MSME)
for institutional strengthening and promotion of SME, and to
CNCIH for institutional strengthening.
Benefits and
Risks:          The project would be the first step in revitalizing the
industrial sector. The pilot rehabilitation of state enter-
prises would provide a basis for wider restructuring of the
state sector. The assistance to MI, MSME and CNCIH would
provide a basis for future expansion of the sector. The
sub-projects together would save or earn considerable foreign
exchange, preserve and increase employment and improve sectoral
productivity. In the selection of private sector sub-projects,
the exchange rate would be shadow-priced to offset distortions
introduced by the overvalued currency. The continuing short-
age of foreign exchange presents some risks for financing of
future operating inputs, but the Government's record in
providing such foreign exchange, when promised, is good.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
_ 1heir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Project Costs                         Local      Foreign      Total
…--US$ million--------
Rehabilitation of State Enterprises              2.0        12.2        14.2
Private Sector Subprojects                       5.9        13.5        19.4
Technical Assistance for MSME & CNCIH            1.2         3.1         4.3
Consulting Services                                -         2.0         2.0
Base Cost                                   9.1        30.8        39.9
Contingencies:  Physical                    0.6          3.8        4.4
Price                      0.2         2.1         2.3
TOTAL                                       9.9        36.7        46.6
Taxes                                      (1.2)        -           (1.2)
Project cost net of taxes                   8.7        36.7        45.4
Financing Plan
US$ Million Equivalent
Local     Foreign       Total
IDA                                               -         19.0        19.0
OPEC Fund                                         -         11.0        11.0
EEC                                               -          5.5         5.5
CIDA                                              -          1.2         1.2
Government of Guinea                             3.7          -          3.7
Private Entrepreneurs                            5.0          -          5.0
Total                                      8.7        36.7        45.4
Estimated IDA Credit Disbursement:
FY83   FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88
----------------US$ million----------------
Annual                0.8     4.0      3.8      4.1     2.9      3.4
Cumulative           0.8      4.8      8.6    12.7    15.6    19.0
Rate of Return:  The weighted economic rate of return for rehabilitation of
the state enterprises is 20.8 percent. The economic rate of
return for the private enterprises promotion sub-projects
would be at least 10 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 3690-GUI dated March 22, 1982.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea for
SDR16.6 million (US$19 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help
finance an Industrial Rehabilitation and Promotion Project. Additional
financing for the project would be provided by the OPEC Fund, EEC and CIDA.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Memorandum 1/ was discussed with the Government in June
1981 and distributed to the Board in August 1981. Its assessment of the state
of the economy, development prospects, and underlying policy issues has
offered the Bank a basis for upgrading its macroeconomic dialogue with
Government and has helped the latter to design some of the important policy
reforms it has recently undertaken. This section focuses on recent changes
in Guinea's economic situation and policies.
3.        Despite its mineral and agricultural potential Guinea saw declining
economic performance from Independence in 1958 until 1973-74. Economic
activity grew rapidly between 1973-76 and at a slowed pace since. At present
most of Guinea's 5.5 million inhabitants live at the margin of poverty. With
a per capita income of about US$280 in 1980, Guinea belongs to the least
developed countries. Life expectancy is only 44 years, infant mortality is
30 percent, calorie intake is 84 percent of requirements, 88 percent of
population has no access to safe water, and 80 percent of population is
illiterate.
4.        Since 1976 Guinea has been reexamining its development policies,
institutions and relations with the outside world, and has recently announced
significant policy reforms, many of which the proposed project would support.
Important first steps have been taken towards improved economic management and
decentralization of the economy: excessive money supply was gradually reduced,
thereby helping to halve the degree of overvaluation of the currency; more
explicit performance criteria and greater autonomy of public enterprises are
being introduced, sectoral holding companies have been dismantled, and a
reform of the banking sector has been initiated; there is greater acceptance
of technical assistance for planning, investment programming, and project
preparation; there is increased recognition of the need for economic pricing
of resources (e.g., interest rates have been doubled and electricity tariffs
increased); private trade has been legalized, state retail trade has been
discontinued and most prices have been decontrolled; private investment, small
and medium-scale enterprises, foreign direct investment and the return of
expatriate Guinean capital are being encouraged, and private enterprises have
1/   Report No. 3150-GUI, July 20, 1981.



been allowed freely to import and export most goods and to borrow and hold
foreign exchange; higher education enrollments are being curtailed and more
students directed to vocational training; manpower planning is being intro-
duced and the guarantee of state employment to school gradvat.- has I'een
suspended, curtailing the increase in public employment. These steps reflect
a significant and broadly based attempt to address Guinea's deep-seated
problems and poor economic performance and represent fundamental changes from
past policies.
Recent Performance
5.        Despite some progress made since 1974, Guinea's economic develop-
ment is hampered by structural problems. The economy is stagnating and the
balance of payments faces chronic deficits. Foreign exchange supply cannot
satisfy domestic consumption, service external debt and finance capital and
recurrent costs of existing and new projects. Limited absorptive capacity
hampers investment and the inflow of foreign capital. The overvaluation of
domestic currency perpetuates distorted prices and wages and an unattractive
environment for producers and investors (both domestic and foreign), affecting
output and export performance. The main productive sector - agriculture -
produces well below potential because of inadequate producer incentives,
inputs, extension services, infrastructure and marketing facilities. Guinea's
current pace of economic development permits neither an increase in the
standard of living of the population nor the generation of domestic savings
for self-sustained growth and development.
6.        Increased domestic output, especially for exports, a stricter
control of aggregate demand as well as quantitative export restrictions
allowed Guinea to record a balance of merchandise trade surplus of about
US$80 million p.a. on the average between 1977-80. This resulted in a reduc-
tion in the current account deficit to 3 percent of GDP from 8-9 percent of
GDP in previous years. However, the capital account remains in difficulty
because of Guinea's inability to attract higher capital inflows in a period of
transition towards stronger ties with market economies, while facing important
amortization obligations. Balance of payments deficits have thus represented
6 percent of GDP between 1977-80 (over US$90 million per year on the average),
and they have been financed through an accumulation of debt arrears (58
percent) and by a decrease in gross foreign exchange reserves (42 percent).
At the end of 1980 foreign reserves covered about 3 months of merchandise
imports.
7.        Higher exports have increased Government's current revenue at an
average annual rate of 12 percent between 1977-81, through taxation, sharing
of profits, and transfers from state enterprises using undervalued foreign
exchange to import scarce commodities. The additional revenue was however
used up by heavy subsidies and capital transfers to state enterprises, both
directly from the budget and through credit extension by the banking system.
Between 1976 and 1980 the state enterprise sector received Sylis 4.1 billion
in subsidies, Sylis 10.3 billion in capital transfers and Sylis 2.7 billion in
credit extension, i.e., a total of Sylis 17 billion (US$8-900 million) or
12 percent of GDP over this five-year period. Moreover, higher wage bills,



- 3 -
increased interest obligations on external debt, and higher recurrent expen-
diture on goods and services have accelerated the increase in Government's
current expenditure to 19 percent per annum on the average between 1977-81,
leading to an expected budget deficit in 1981 and reinforcing the need for
external financing of local costs.
8.        Most investment in Guinea is of public and parapublic nature.
During the last development plan (October 1973 to December 1978), public and
parapublic investment reached US$478 million (55 percent of planned expendi-
ture) averaging 10 percent of GDP. Total investment was modest at 15 per-
cent of GDP on the average. Two-thirds of centrally-planned investment was
financed by foreign assistance. The ongoing plan (1981-85) projects much
higher investments of US$1.6 billion, favoring agricultural (31 percent) and
industrial (14 percent) 1/ development. Many of the proposed projects are,
however, in preliminary stages of preparation and their financing is not yet
sure. It appears unlikely that the proposed investment targets could be
reached.
9.        The Government has demonstrated a desire to better maintain and
exploit existing capital assets and has increased the proportion of its
recurrent budget for maintenance and repair. It is also undertaking a serious
examination of the viability of state enterprises; the least successful ones
(including the entire network of retail trade enterprises outside Conakry)
have been closed down, while others have embarked on rehabilitation programs,
mostly with external assistance. The recent decision to grant autonomy to
state enterprises a-ims at making them financially self-sufficient and reflects
the need to revise price and credit policies and to use foreign technical
assistance.
Prospects
10.       Guinea's long-term development possiblities are substantial based on
its agricultural, mineral and hydroelectric potential. With 80 percent of the
population in the rural sector, and with modest national savings, (in the
order of 7 percent of GDP in 1980) combined with an acute shortage of foreign
exchange, the exploitation of this potential hinges on the country's ability
to provide incentives to agricultural producers and to attract foreign capital
for investment in mining and ore-processing.
11.       Simple simulation techniques point at two major problems during
the 1980s: first, the difficulty of increasing the supply of consumer goods,
particularly in the rural sector, 2/ because of growing public consumption
and the investment levels needed to foster development; and second, the
continuing balance of payments constraint and the ensuing lack of credit-
worthiness, determined by structural distortions, notably of prices and
exchange rates. In addition to these problems, there is need for improved
1/   Industry, mining and energy are projected to use 32 percent of total
public and parapublic investment.
2/   A condition for the increase of smallholder farmers' production
(para. 12).



- 4 -
planning and econiomi  management, particularly to optimize public borrowing
policies and practices to reflect balance of payments constraints, sectoral
priorities, and the overall goal of increasing production and exports. Mining
projects alone will not be able to revitalize the economy. They can play a
positive role as purveyors of foreign exchange, but they can also carry
substantial risks and strain Guinea's absorptive capacity in other sectors.
12.       Guinea's best prospects for economic development lie in efforts to
induce growth, particularly in agriculture, by providing incentives to produc-
tion, increasing the efficiency of the public sector, and improving resource
management and project preparation. Such policies could significantly alter
the country's development outlook and offer significant investment opportuni-
ties for external assistance sources. However, during most of the 1980s,
Guinea would face a difficult transition period when increased foreign assis-
tance, especially on concessional terms, would be needed to ease the balance
of payments difficulties and contribute to a gradual realization of the coun-
try's considerable development potential. Particularly crucial will be Gov-
ernment's success in correcting price and exchange rate distortions, improving
the agricultural incentives structure and investment programming.
Foreign Assistance and External Debt
13.       Since 1975-76, Guinea has been diversifying its sources of foreign
assistance through renewed ties with the Western industrialized countries,
expanded relations with Arab countries and with multilateral sources. Guinea
has qualified for drawings under the IMF first credit tranche and trust fund
facilities, and is currently discussing access to higher credit tranches.
14.       The accumulation of foreign debt to finance investments in public
infrastructure and public enterprises, as well as public consumption, has
resulted in a burden of foreign obligations which is, and will remain for
years, a major problem. Guinea's external outstanding public and private debt
guaranteed reached US$1.7 billion as of December 31, 1980, of which US$1.1
billion (70 percent of GNP) was disbursed. Debt denominated in convertible
currency amounts to 57 percent of the total public debt disbursed and to 91
percent of the 1980 disbursements. Foreign exchange shortages have hindered
the payment of debt service. Outstanding arrears on loans due in convertible
currency totalled US$94 million at the end of 1980 (US$20 million less than a
year before), owing to several rescheduling agreements. The ratio of debt
service obligations to gross export earnings in 1980 was about 38 percent if
debt service on private non-guaranteed debt is included. Actual service
payments amounted to about 31 percent of export receipts.
15.       Service for public debt outstanding at December 31, 1980, should
exceed US$140 million per annum over the 1981-83 period. Although Guinea's
debt service coverage has improved, barring new debt rescheduling or major
changes in the present allocation of foreign exchange, accumulated arrears are
likely to increase in absolute terms. The Government has addressed the
problem through debt rescheduling negotiated bilaterally with some creditors,
and measures to improve debt management via the newly established External



- 5 -
Debt Department in the Central Bank, to which the Bank has provided technical
advice as part of its economic work. It has also undertaken both a stricter
control of investments financed by external credits and a more judicious
official import program. Some relief was provided in this area by the opening
of trade, which enabled private traders to finance imports. However successful
these efforts may be, Guinea will have to rely on substantial amounts of
foreign assistance on concessionary terms during the next few years. This
will be needed not only for investment purposes but also to provide foreign
exchange for intermediate and consumer good imports which are vital to
stimulate economic activity and relieve supply constraints, particularly in
the rural sector. Furthermore, despite the Government's achievements in
keeping the growth of its current consumption expenditures below the growth of
revenue, net public savings after debt service will be inadequate until at
least the mid-1980s, and local cost (including some recurrent expenditure)
financing by external sources will be needed.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
16.       The first Bank Group operation in Guinea comprised two loans for
the Boke bauxite mining operations in FY 68 and FY 71. This project was
followed by IDA credits promoting pineapple exports and the rehabilitation of
roads. Encouraged by the first results of these projects, the Bank Group
began to diversify and expand its lending program, based upon priorities
tentatively agreed with Government: (i) rehabilitation and maintenance of
basic infrastructure; (ii) improvement of human resources; (iii) mining
development; and, (iv) development of the rural sector. Bank operations
in each of these areas have been approved or are under preparation, with
particular emphasis on sectoral planning, institution building and training.
Thus, the Power Engineering project and subsequent First Power project (FYs
79, 81) are rehabilitating the Conakry power system and a Water Supply project
(FY79) is providing similar assistance to Conakry. Although the Second
Highway project (FY80) continues and extends the successful first, its recent
performance has been poor, due to misuse of equipment and lack of fuel. The
Government is taking firm action to remove the problems and substantial
near-term improvement is expected. The First Education Project (FY79) assists
the Government in improving and expanding training programs for industrial
technicians and in strengthening educational planning and implementation
capacity.
17.       It is in the rural sector that the Government has experienced
greatest difficulty in harnessing its development potential. Logistical
support for the rural sector, financial incentives, access to modern tech-
nology and applied agricultural research have been almost nonexistent.
To deal with these fundamental problems, two projects are providing direct
intervention in sub-sectors with substantial growth potential. The Rice
Development Project (FY80) stresses national institution building and in-
troduces pilot low-cost improved rice production methods in an area with high
potential. A study of agricultural prices and rural incentives is nearing
completion and is expected to be a focus of discussion with Government. The



-6-
Livestock Development Project (FY81) aims at strengthening the institutions
responsible for day-to-day field operations and sectoral planning and analy-
sis, improving animal health and productivity and training livestock sector
staff.
18.       Bank Group operations in Guinea now include eight IDA Credits
totalling US$64.9 million and SDR 35.4 million, and two Bank loans totalling
US$73.5 million. Disbursements have been excellent compared to similar
countries in West Africa.
19.       Current Strategy.  In keeping with Bank economic analysis (paras.
5 to 12), our lending program is based on a strategy of promoting growth
through support to the directly productive sectors and by encouraging key
policy reforms at the project and sectoral levels aimed at improving existing
economic mechanisms and promoting market forces. Specific targets are: (a)
giving priority to projects that increase production and exports; (b) improving
absorptive capacity in the infrastructure sectors which support the productive
sectors, through rehabilitation, technical and managerial training and improved
marketing and distribution; (c) introducing technical assistance directed
towards policy reforms, improved economic management and resource allocation;
and (d) improving capital flows through the promotion of private investment
and increasing the level of cofinancing.
20.       Apart from the proposed project for Industrial Rehabilitation and
Promotion, IDA has recently appraised projects for port rehabilitation and
education, and has preappraised a project for highways rehabilitation. Gov-
ernment has requested technical assistance for economic and financial plan-
ning, for support to the public sector (which would complement the assistance
proposed in this project), and for oil and mineral exploration. We will
discuss with Government the price and incentive structure for agriculture and
increase Bank sectoral knowledge necessary to develop and expand the agricul-
tural sector program. More generally, developing the intensive and hitherto
productive dialogue with the Government remains a main priority since further
policy changes will no doubt be required to permit expansion of Bank opera-
tions.
21.       In the mining sector, Government has reached agreement with a major
steel company to undertake construction supervision and management of the
proposed Nimba Iron Ore project and final feasibility studies are under
preparation. The Bank is providing technical advice to Government for this
project, as well as for the Konkoure hydro electric power/aluminum smelter
project preparation, as executing agency for a UNDP-financed study of the
aluminum smelter component.
22.       The Bank Group's share of Guinea's external debt (public and private
guaranteed) at the end of 1980 stood at about 8 percent (including undisbursed).
Its portion of external debt disbursed is expected to be 11 percent by 1985
compared with 8 percent in 1981; its share of debt service on public debt and
private debt guaranteed, 6.6 percent in 1980, is expected to decline to 3.7
percent by 1985.



PART III - THE SECTOR
Overview
23.       Guinea's economy remains predominantly agricultural, 80 percent
of population earning their living from this sector. Mining of bauxite and
alumina production generated about 18 percent of GDP and 96 percent of exports
in 1979. The mining operations function efficiently as enclaves with few
linkages to the rest of the economy.
24.       The modern manufacturing sector does not contribute significantly
to the economy. It comprises about 38 state and 26 private enterprises,
employing about 7,500 and contributing 3 percent of GDP. Principal activities
include foods, beverages, light plastic manufacturing, construction and
chemicals. Private enterprises are mainly artisanal producing textiles,
furniture, cosmetics and foodstuffs for local consumption.
The State Industrial Sector
25.       Following Independence, Government directed most of its resources
into the public sector. Industrial policy promoted import substitution and
regional development. The performance of state enterprises has been poor.
Today, with few exceptions, they operate old, worn out equipment at 10-30
percent of capacity, with few spare parts available and irregular supplies of
raw materials and power. Since 1975, the Government has been attempting
to rehabilitate existing operations but progress has been slow due to the
shortage of external financing. Financing has been sought for at least
24 projects: one is complete, nine are in progress, financing for another
three has recently been secured and financing is still being sought for a
further eleven (of which four would be included in this project).
26.       Until recently, all the state industrial enterprises were admin-
istered by a state industrial holding company, OCOFI (Organisation pour
la Coordination Financiere de l'Industrie), under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Industry. State control has been complete with policy, procure-
ment, labor, exports, audit and finance all handled centrally by various arms
of the government. In October 1981 government dissolved OCOFI and other
holding companies as a first step in creating a financially autonomous public
sector. The Government is still in the process of studying and restructuring
the sector and a period of evolution is expected. The proposed project and
the associated intensive dialogue between the Association and Government
is expected to assist significantly in the restructuring process.
Small and Medium Enterprise
27.       Although Government stopped bank lending to the sector in 1974,
controlled imported inputs, set prices of inputs and outputs and marketed all
official production (private retailing was banned for a period), the private
sector survived as a small, but still significant, economic segment. Since
1978 Government has been changing direction. It has taken firm steps to



- 8 -
liberalize the operating environment and to promote private investment (para.
4). In 1980 it created an office, later elevated to a full Ministry of
Small and Medium Enterprise (MSME) in 1981, to promote and assist small and
medium enterprise. There is a considerable pent-up demand for credit and
access to foreign exchange, with about 45 outstanding applications totalling
US$30 million ranging widely in size. The larger projects (average size
US$5.5 million) include agro-industrial processing, soft drinks and plastic
products. Smaller projects include bakeries, tailoring and furniture making.
About half the applications are for less than US$100,000, and three quarters
are below US$500,000 (amounting to 10 percent of total volume). The proposed
project would normally finance projects requiring sub-loans of less than
US$2.0 million (Schedule 4 to the draft Development Credit Agreement (DCA).
The Banking and Financial Sector
28.       Guinea withdrew from the Franc zone two years after Independence,
establishing its own nonconvertible currency and an independent banking
system. The present official exchange rate of about Sylis 20 to the US dollar
overvalues the currency.
29.       Structure and Policies.  Guinea's financial system comprises the
Central Bank, five banks acting as specialized branches of the Central Bank
and a national insurance company, all state-owned. Policies are determined
by the Conseil National du Credit (CNC) and administered by a Board with a
Management Committee implementing day-to-day activities including all credit
approvals. The Government is currently reviewing the structure and policies
of the banking system, and assurances would be sought that Government would
consult with IDA prior to implementing structural changes which would affect
the status of CNCIH or implementation of the project (Section 3.05 of the
DCA). The Government is also considering an innovation in financial structure
through creation of joint ventures with private foreign capital.
30.       Credit.  In August 1981, Government, following IMF recommendations,
doubled interest rates from those in effect since 1967. Lending rates are now
between 10 percent and 14 percent and deposit rates are between 4 percent and
7 percent. Because most capital investments in Guinea have hitherto been
financed on a grant basis by the state from external sources, the bulk of
domestic credit is short term, financing mainly the seasonal credit needs of
the state enterprises and their operation.
31.       CNCIH.  Established in 1961 to undertake all domestic banking
activities of the Central Bank, CNCIH is the only bank with branches outside
Conakry. These act on behalf of the other banks. About 98 percent of its
present loan portfolio was used to finance the seasonal needs of the state
produce marketing company SERCOM. The balance provided occasional credits
for housing and, until 1974, private enterprises. Its services are limited.
Under authorization from the Central Bank it makes short, medium and, occasion-
ally, long-term loans to clients and offers deposit and checking facilities.
About 15 percent of CNCIH staff are located in Conakry, with the remainder
distributed in 36 branches. Although the management and professional staff of
35 are able and well motivated, the credit evaluation/project appraisal



capability of CNCIH is very weak and would be strengthened under the project
(para. 42). CNCIH's financial position is also weak, with a low liquidity
and equity base, no provisions for bad debts and artifically low financial
charges on its borrowings from the banking system. Substantial improvement is
expected during the proposed project.
Constraints to Development
32.       Insufficient policy analysis and poor resource allocation have
encouraged overexpansion of an inefficient public sector; the lack of foreign
exchange limits industry's capacity to maintain or renew its assets or to
purchase raw materials; currency overvaluation and price fixing have created
distortions and suppressed incentives; and guaranteed employment and Guinea's
financial policies have led to overmanned and inefficient state enterprises.
Sectoral constraints have included: excessive government control; the require-
ment to buy and sell through State enterprises, such as Importex; and, inade-
quate infrastructure (mainly power). For small and medium enterprises the
principal constraint is access to foreign exchange. Both state and private
enterprises will also need extended access to foreign technology and expertise.
The principal constraints in the banking sector are: weak financial and
operating structure; insufficient project appraisal capacity and little
familiarity with the needs of the private sector.
Government Strategy
33.       The pace of economic reform, which started slowly in 1975, has
recently quickened, with the Government undertaking substantial changes
affecting the industrial sector (paras. 4 and 9). These new policies are not
part of an explicit industrial strategy, instead they reflect the broad
reorientation of the economy towards increased efficiency and encouragement of
market mechanisms.
34.       The Government's overriding economic objective is to increase growth
and employment through investment in, and increased efficiency of, the produc-
tive sectors. Its implicit economic strategy relating to the industrial sector
is: (i) to encourage private investment; (ii) to limit state enterprises
operations to those areas where private investment is unlikely in the near
term; (iii) to create an environment where state enterprises are forced to
compete and to be efficient; (iv) to improve policy analysis, resource alloca-
tion and investment planning; and (v) to strengthen the banking sector for its
future role in industrial development. It also seeks to save and earn foreign
exchange through development of agro-industry, agriculture supply industry,
mineral exploitation and mineral based industry, hydropower-based industry
and rehabilitation of existing industry in preference to new investment. It
recognizes the urgent need to strengthen production, management and marketing
capabilities.
Bank Role
35.       The Bank supports the Government's objectives and strategy.  The
proposed project would provide substantial financial and technical assistance
towards these goals. Possible Technical Assistance, iron ore and oil and



- 10 -
minerals exploration projects would extend broad coverage of the industrial/
mining sector (paras 20 and 21).
IV - THE PROJECT
36.       In late 1979 the Guinean Government requested IDA's assistance
to rehabilitate state enterprises and to promote small and medium private
enterprises. Preparation was undertaken by Government and financed by two
advances under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). Of the twelve state
enterprises considered for rehabilitation, six, selected for their export or
import substitution potential, were studied in detail. Of these, four were
found to be economically and financially viable. Preparation for private
sector assistance consisted mainly of assisting MSME to create the policy and
institutional framework necessary to promote expansion of the private sector.
The project was appraised in June 1981. Negotiations with the Government,
led by H.E. Mohamed Lamine Toure, Governor of the Central Bank, were held in
Washington on February 26, 1982.  A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Indus-
trial Rehabilitation and Promotion Project" No. 3690 GUI, dated March 22,
1982, is being distributed separately. Annex III provides a timetable of key
events.
Project Objectives and Description
37.       The objectives of the project would be to support Government's
industrial strategy through improving the performance of state industrial
enterprises through selective rehabilitation and relaxation of Government
controls; strengthening the private productive sector; and strengthening
industrial sector policy formulation, planning and feasibility study capacity.
38.       The project would comprise:
(i) complete rehabilitation of four state enterprises through the
provision of equipment, civil works, raw materials and technical
assistance for project preparation 1/, engineering, management
assistance and training;
(ii) additional studies for two other state enterprises;
(iii) promotion of small and medium private enterprise through provision
of term credit and provision of equipment, technical assistance and
training to further develop MSME;
(iv) provision of equipment, technical assistance and training to CNCIH
to enable it to act as the financial intermediary for (i) and
(iii) above; and
(v) provision of technical assistance to strengthen industrial policy
analysis and planning and for industrial sector and feasibility
studies.
1/   Financed under advances from the PPF.



- 11 -
Brief details of the project components are summarized in paras. 39 to 43
below.
39.       Rehabilitation.  The quinine plantation and factory at Seredou has
declined from an area of 250 ha and annual production of 12.5 tons in 1954 to
about 120 ha and 2.5 tons today. The project would finance a three year slice
of a ten year program and would initiate rehabilitation of the plantation and
increase annual production to about 12.5 tons through replanting, provision of
infrastructure, rehabilitation of the factory and equipment, provision of
imported inputs and technical assistance. The SIPAR plantation at Labe,
producer of high quality and highly valued essential oils and essences, has
similarly declined. The project would begin restoration of the plantation to
its original size and would rehabilitate the factory through improved agricul-
tural practices, replanting, and provision of infrastructure, equipment and
technical assistance. Both projects would earn substantial foreign exchange,
would have satisfactory economic and financial returns and would maintain and
increase employment. The rehabilitation of the SONACAG granite quarry near
Conakry would replace almost all equipment including the crushing plant and
provide technical assistance for operations. There is an extreme shortage of
gravel and aggregate in the Conakry area creating a substantial constraint for
many development projects. The rehabilitation of the SONACAG tile factory
would replace most of the pressing, grinding and polishing machines for which
spares are unobtainable, as well as materials handling and other equipment.
Technical assistance would be provided for strengthening operations and
management. The factory would meet about half of Guinea's demand for construc-
tion tiles.
40.       Policy and Feasibility Studies.  About three man-years of technical
assistance would assist Government in analysing data and formulating industrial
policy for the public and private sectors. Funds would also be provided for
sector studies, prefeasibility and preparation work (including studies for an
eventual follow-up project), which would be identified and agreed with the
Association during the course of project implementation (Section 3.09 of the
draft DCA). The project would finance two already identified studies, to
continue work initiated under the PPF advances, to establish whether the
SONACAG Ornamental Stone Quarry and the Slate Quarry can be developed into
financially and economically viable enterprises.
41.       Promotion and Financing of SME. The MSME would be responsible for
the promotion of private SME and for providing assistance to entrepreneurs in
preparing financeable project proposals. Technical assistance would be pro-
vided for project analysis, management and accounting support, engineering
support, sector and economic analysis and marketing support. The project
would also finance vehicles and equipment to make MSME fully operational.
Lines of credit would be provided for SMEs, for urban construction enterprises
and for micro-projects in other sectors by IDA and the EEC (see para. 45).
Projects financed by IDA would be majority privately held, would maintain a
minimum 30% equity and enterprises would contribute at least 30 percent of
total project costs (Schedule 4 of the draft DCA).



- 12 -
42.       CNCIH.  All financial intermediation for state and private enter-
prises supported under the project would be through CNCIH. CNCIH would have
direct financial relationships with its borrowers. It would appraise and
approve loan requests submitted to it by MSME (Section 3.02 and Schedule 4 of
the draft DCA). Technical assistance would be provided to strengthen CNCIH's
project-related operations and to reinforce its project identification,
appraisal and supervision capabilities, improve operating procedures and
provide increased autonomy to process loans.
43.       Technical Assistance and Training.  The project would provide
technical assistance for: (a) the engineering supervision of state enterprise
rehabilitation; (b) assistance in industrial policy, planning and sector or
project studies; and (c) assistance to CNCIH and MSME. Because the industrial
sector is rapidly changing, adequate allowance has been made for further
technical assistance to Government, to be agreed during project implementation.
Except for the engineering supervision of state enterprises, technical assis-
tance wherever possible would be for short frequent visits - it being agreed
by both Government and IDA that this has a greater training impact, places
greater reliance on qualified Guinean staff and is usually more cost-effective.
Short term training overseas would also be provided, principally for staff of
MSME. Considerable, but not quantified, technical assistance would be provided
in the turn-key rehabilitation contracts.
Project Costs and Financing
44.       Total project cost, including refinancing of advances under the PPF,
is estimated at US$46.6 million equivalent, of which US$36.7 million equiva-
lent, or 80 percent, in foreign exchange and US$1.2 million in taxes. Cost
estimates are based on mid 1981 prices and, except for the line of credit to
SME, include 30 percent physical contingencies and a total of 10 percent per
year price contingencies. For consulting services and technical assistance,
estimates are based on contracts recently offered in Guinea and other West
African countries. For scholarships, estimates are based on experience in
education projects in West Africa. Man-month costs for consulting services
and technical assistance average US$10,000 and scholarships are estimated at
US$1,000 per month.
45.       The proposed credit of US$19 million equivalent would:  cofinance
the rehabilitation of state enterprises with the OPEC FUND (IDA - US$7.1
million, including contingencies, OPEC Fund - US$11.0 million); finance
technical assistance for industrial planning in the MI (US$0.4 million);
finance a line of credit for artisanal, modern and service industries (US$8.8
million); finance assistance to CNCIH and MSME (US$1.1 million); and finance
general consultancies, studies and an external audit (US$1.6 million). In
addition to the US$11 million to be financed by the OPEC Fund and administered
by IDA, EEC would parallel finance a line of credit for urban construction
industries and micro-projects in other areas (US$4.7 million) and EEC and CIDA
would parallel finance technical assistance for MSME (EEC-US$0.8 million, CIDA
- US$1.2 million). IDA coordination of the cofinanced activities in the SME
sector, requested by Government, would be provided through the consultants
financed by the proposed Credit and by normal project supervision. Local
costs estimated at US$8.7 million would be financed by Government mainly as
equity (US$3.7 million) and by private enterprises for their own projects
(US$5.0 million).



- 13 -
46.       The Government would cause CNCIH to onlend US$8.8 million Qf the
IDA credit to private enterprise subprojects at not less than 13 percent
(Section 3.02 of the draft DCA). Part of the US$7.1 million to be financed
by IDA for rehabilitation of the four state enterprises would be passed on
as government equity in these enterprises, depending on their final capital
structure (Section 4.02 of the draft DCA), and the rest would be onlent by
CNCIH to these enterprises at not less than 13 percent. Terms to the public
sector would vary with the nature of the business, with a maximum term of 20
years with 10 years grace for the SIPAR-Labe and Seredou Quinine sub-projects.
In keeping with the new market-oriented policies, enterprises would be required
to bear the foreign exchange risk (Section 3.02 of the draft DCA). Onlending
terms to the private sector would be for a maximum of fifteen years - the
average is expected to be seven years with an eighteen months grace period at
not less than 13 percent per annum. CNCIH would retain 3 percent margin for
all onlending. The inflation rate is estimated to have averaged 3.7 percent
per annum over the last five years. Onlending terms for other cofinancing
agencies would be in accordance with their separate agreements with the
Government.
Project Implementation
47.       The project would be implemented by MI (rehabilitation of state
enterprises and sector related studies), MSME (private sector promotion) and
CNCIH (financial intermediation). MI and MSME would appoint project coordina-
tors by June 30, 1982, to assume financial and technical management of the
sub-projects, to issue progress reports, and to assist IDA supervision mis-
sions (Section 3.07 of the draft DCA). The three implementing institutions'
major involvement in project formulation and preparation would contribute to
successful project execution. MI has named a project coordinator, has carried
out the feasibility studies on which the project is based, has identified the
engineering consultants which will supervise the rehabilitation program, and
is now negotiating contracts with them.  MSME has prepared a plan and detailed
estimated costs for office extension, has agreed on the terms of reference for
technical assistance to be provided, has identified housing for consultants
and has prepared an organization chart for the Ministry. CNCIH has reorga-
nized its structure and is now identifying training opportunities for key
staff involved in project execution. The proposed project would require
extensive supervision in view of its pilot nature, its complexity and the
introduction of important sector policy reforms and new management tools. The
Government has already undertaken key steps to providing financial autonomy to
state enterprises (Section 3.03 of the draft DCA). A condition of effective-
ness would be Government confirmation of the arrangements under which CNCIH
would onlend and for financial autonomy of state enterprises (Section 6.01 of
the draft DCA). The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1988.
Procurement and Disbursement
48.       IDA- and OPEC-financed equipment, civil works, technical assistance
and supplies for public enterprise rehabilitation, amounting to about US$7.1
million (IDA) and US$11.0 million (OPEC) would be procured as turn-key or
package contracts on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB)



- 14 -
following Bank Group guidelines. Other IDA-financed equipment, supplies ard
civil works (amounting to about US$9.9 million), mainly for private enter-
prises, would be procured on the basis of comparative shopping with advice
from Government. The nature and amount of most of these contracts would make
them unsuitable for ICB but contracts over $2 million would be subject to ICB.
Consultants and experts would be appointed with qualifications, on terms and
conditions and with terms of reference satisfactory to the Government and the
Association, and in accordance with IDA guidelines (Section 3.08 and Schedule
3 of the draft DCA).
49.       The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed on the following basis:
(a) packages for the rehabilitation of state enterprises (US$3.5 mil-
lion), consultant and audit services, studies, technical assistance,
training and scholarships (US$1.3 million), and expatriate housing
(US$0.2 million) - 100 percent of expenditures;
(b) consultants for supervision of state enterprise rehabilitation
(US$0.7 million) - 100 percent of foreign expenditures; and
(c) working capital (US$1.1 million), sub-loans to private enterprises
(US$8 million), and materials, equipment and vehicles for the
implementing agencies (US$0.1 million) - 100 percent of foreign
expenditures and 70 percent of imported items procured locally.
After refinancing advances under the PPF (US$1.0 million) US$3.1 million would
remain unallocated. The credit is expected to be fully disbursed within 6
years of credit effectiveness. The disbursement schedule is based on the
combined historical profile of IDA-financed DFC industrial projects between
1970-80.
Special Implementation Measures
50.       Government has recently taken measures to improve significantly
the operating environment of state and private enterprises (paras. 4 and 9).
Government has undertaken to provide an adequate environment for the opera-
tion of the enterprises to be financed under the project, notably with respect
to import procedures, provision of foreign exchange, price levels, function-
ing of CNCIH, procurement and disbursement procedures, and other measures
needed to maintain economic and financial rates of return of at least 10
percent for these enterprises (see Annex III for a detailed presentation of
these measures).
Project Benefits and Risks
51.       The proposed project would be the first step in revitalizing the
state and private industrial sector and is expected to have a lasting effect
on this sector through investment, technical assistance and further policy
steps as outlined in para. 38. The pilot rehabilitation of selected state
enterprises and the technical assistance to the enterprises and to MI is
expected to create a solid foundation for future industrial development. It



- 15 -
would develop sector policy planning and preparation of productive projects,
improve the operating environment for state and private enterprises and would
demonstrate that properly selected and more autonomous state enterprises can
be rehabilitated to play a useful role in the economy. The development of
CNCIH as financial intermediary for the proposed project components would be
the first stage in developing the institution as a fully fledged development
institution. The promotion of private enterprise through assistance from MSME
and by the provision of credit is seen as an essential prerequisite to stimu-
late economic growth.
52.       The state and private sub-projects are expected to save or earn con-
siderable net foreign exchange, to preserve and improve the productivity of
existing jobs and to create new employment. The economic and financial rates
of return for the state sub-projects, using a Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)
of 0.5, are acceptable: 13 percent and 33 percent, respectively, for SIPAR
Labe; 33 percent and 21 percent for the SONACAG quarry; 21 and 15 percent for
Seredou; and 14 and 23 percent, respectively, for the SONACAG tile factory.
The weighted economic rate of return for the State sub-projects is estimated at
20.8 percent. The economic rate of return is not significantly sensitive to
moderate increases in capital or operating costs, or moderate project delays.
The foreign markets for the SIPAR-Labe and Seredou quinine products are
expected to remain favorable. Local markets for SONACAG are expected to be
strong. The economic rate of return for the private enterprises promotion
sub-projects would be at least 10 percent.
53.       There are no special technical risks associated with the project.
The state sector comprises the rehabilitation of ongoing known operations
and private sub-projects are expected to be relatively simple investments.
Continuation of excessive Government controls and administrative procedures
presents certain risks, especially to the state sector. Maintaining the freer
environment already created by Government for state and private enterprises
will be essential to the success of the project. The acute shortage of for-
eign exchange in Guinea always presents some risks, but Government's agreement
to provide necessary foreign exchange to all sub-projects and improve budget-
ing of such requirements for SMEs would minimize the difficulties (para. 50).
The selection of sub-projects in the private sector would be based on an
economic analysis using an SCF acceptable to the Association, to minimize the
effects of distorted prices and exchange rates.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Revolutionary
People's Republic of Guinea and the Association, and the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association, are being distributed to the Executive Direc-
tors separately.
55.       Special features of the draft Development Credit Agreement are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III.



- 16 -
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington D.C.
April 08   , 1982



- 17 -                                    ANNEX 1
Page l
TABLE 3A
GUINEA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GUINEA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE7GES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. XM.)                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL           245.9
AGRICULTURAL     71.7                               MOST RECENT          LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 lb ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)               110.0       150.0    280.0                238.3                  794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    67.2        95.3      87.0                70.5                  707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 3067.0     4069.0   5275.0/c
URHAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 9.9       13.8      17.6                17.5                   27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     8.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      23.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                     12.5        16.5      21.5                27.7                   55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    45.0       58.0      71.5                73.7                  130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       42.1        42.5      43.7                44.8                   46.0
15-64 YRS.                       55.1        54.7     53.4                 52.4                   51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                 2.8         2.8       2.9                 2.9                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            2.2         2.8       2.9/c               2.6                    2.8
URBAN                            8.1         6.2       5.6                 6.5                    5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.8       46.8      45.9                46.9                   46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    29.9       23.9      20.1                19.3                   15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.0         3.0       3.0                 3.1                    3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        97.0       100.0      82.0                89.5                   89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 86.0        90.0      84.0                90.2                   92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        43.0        44.0     42.7                 52.7                   52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      8.0         7.0       8.0                17.8                   16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    44.8       35.4      28.3                27.3                   20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   34.7       40.0     44.4                 45.8                   50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                        141.0/f        ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..          ..      10.0/e              23.9                   27.4
URBAN                             ..          ..     44.0                 55.0                   74.3
RURAL                             ..          ..       2.SJi              18.5                   12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        13.0        ..                26.2
URBAN                             ..        70.0        ..                63.5
RURAL                             ..         2.0       ..                 20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN       48000.0    32519.4  16626.7               31911.8                13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERISON  3255.4      2031.5   2494.0               3674.9                 2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                         1121.8       611.7/g  634.0               1238.8                 1028.4
URbAN                          205.3       216.07j  380.9                272.8                  423.0
RURAL                         2201.8       880.4   730.6                1745.2                 3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..        16.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URBAN                             ..          ..
RURAL                             ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URBAN                             ..          ..
RURAL                             ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             ..          ..       5.0
URBAN                             ..          ..
RURAL                             ..          ..



- 18 -
ANNEX 1
LAJLZ 3A
GUSNEA - 80CIAL INDICATORS DATA SIZET
GUINZA                          RZEZRZNCZ GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE GZS
- MOST RZCZNT ZSTIMATS)
M0ST RECENS             LOW INCOME               MIDDLZ INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJlST9D ENROLLMZNT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  30.0         33.0       34.0                   56.4                       73.7
MALE                   44.0         45.0       46.0                   70.7                       96.8
FEMALZ                 16.0         21.0       22.0                   50.1                       79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    2.0         13.0       16.0/d                 10.0                       16.2
MALE                    3.0         21.0       26.07i                 13.6                       25.3
FZMALE                  0.4          5.0        6.07i                  6.6                      14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)                   3.2        3.1                    8.0                        5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              50.5         37.1       39.3                   46.5                      36.2
SICONDARY                            41.1         26.8       24,1                   25,5                       23.6
ADULT LITERACY kATE (PERCENT)           7.0          9.0/h    20.0                    25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASS9NGZR CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            2.0          2.4        2.0                    2.9                      32.3
RADIO RICZIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           12.7         22.4       24.1                   32.8                      69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                                                           1.9                       8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTERZST") CIRCULATION nR
THOUSAND POPULATION                     0.2          1.2        2.1                    2.8                       20.2
CINZMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PR CAPITA                                                     1.2                        0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LAWR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         1321.6       1939.6    2366.3
FIMALE (PERCZNT)                     40.4         40.3       39.8                   34.1                      36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCZNT)                88.2         85.0       82,2                   80.0                      56.6
INDUSTRY (PEICENT)                    6.1          8.0       10.6                    8.6                      17.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCZNT)
TOTAL                                  49.6         47.7       44.9                   41.7                       37.2
MALE                                   59.4         57.4       54.5                   54.3                       47.1
FEMALE                                 39.9         38.1       35.4                   29.2                      27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.9          1.0        1.0                    1.2                        1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PRCZNT Of PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED NY
HIGHEST 5 PERCZNT OF HOUSlHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PZRCZNT OF HOUSZHOLDS
LOWEST 20 nPRCENT OP dUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTLMASTD ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                                              136.0                     381.2
RURAL                                                                               84.5                     156.2
ESTIMATZD RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LZVZL (US$ PZR CAPITA)
URBAN                                                        70.0                   99.1                     334.3
RURAL                                                                               61.2                     137.6
ESTIMATZD POPULATION BELOW AISOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                                                               39.7
RURAL                                                .                              68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic manes   Coverage of countries
amoyg the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unlace otherwie noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betvwen 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, betveen 1976 and 1979.
/c   Recant Goverment estistes from Administrative Census indicate a reaident population (excluding non-
Guireane) of 4.53 mill, in 1977 and population growth rate of 2.7S p.a.; /d Combined upper and lower
secondary;  /a WHO report May, 1980 quotas total accese 11-12T.  However, this does not match reported
service  in urban and rural areas;  /f 1955-60 average;  Ia Government hospitals only;  /h 1965.
May, 1981



-19 -                                                                                     ANNX 1
Pa- 3
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INlICATIRS
Noe:Although Ste data at  drawn fre  sore  geerll  uJdged the.os  ai teaiesd reIiable. It should ae  be  -crd char cty say tot batoer
rattcel'ycumyer-ble  because Of the Isiiftadatldieed'deSfIitloes and coItipteue   ydieetcutiaI   ui        h   aa    h   asst   oe
the1b..s.. ua 1fui td-.crth   Ordert  fi eagoiud,          iteted.,      sod ibhraineie   ctraltsaorh.fereI-
Ibereetecc   griueate('!Ifhic -saecouotrgrocItiesubj-rtOcOnnrYsod  (2) Accuitty                    - gtuylthueab       h ightiav-erogIe      .  I.  icuiobaunogroup
TOf the sujec  cout   (Accp   a   CyttSclsOliytes   ru    hr   Kdi   tceNrhAtisadIideta"tecsc  tue
socto-cutrutsi aft tnutiss)  ~             1      h,   ..... I. h   eeei   ru   aateasaa   r  popajerion ofgtdeibei   e oao  ec  i hb,tr  a  shwgoi "ee
sod isoiuwifrn,cauicosus   beceeoised   ncnlaiodtoIag_    Sfnt_        iacecrcns. TtsaerSsrsol.cwiircyniucvauc
Ofsic ttaa AAstst  o'grcltrlarausdr.pr....ry..noyaviabeS  publi aId   private general  end h                                                       peiltalisyed  hosptalsd
fdircrop,  p Asture....warbethadkthngres  rtti   alw -NT  daa,yoblidnincpres .Nositl sar   snbststs. ps-ow- l  stf
cuisnd by  ass cnserec -psehud a   IWood Bank Ars.     1777.ede            5                and me dia  center  roed. byarawnhy   tafe  byahyiis (u  by a
11-  -d I..... ily .. P   ....y          denlbn Anprvda m111 Itwd          aNeo  msiilfaiite.  Foeats
sad  Oltsnt, penrol ku,  aotlgasadhdo,nrersdgohra   lc                                              n   os   optl   na   rr.   hospitls s- medtol tan    stsrwfny
inliny   t  kioguetofcieaquoaenrpe  cspia;   961  iby,so.199                enrr      t Sprtlise   hsi   tl  ae  elue           id OndR  totap.l.
lotal Population. iSld'-iegr(thousands)                                                            l usiifdJui)   OflBdi.119f..iandi1979F.,I-I-
data.                                                                                             AverageO SRCAITi-se.f  -~  .. a  ofl ioeh,l (Irosprhueod     tni   ra,sdrrl
-d ifferr     deIt"iiwao  urs   ra   a   trc   oprhiyoo5 data                                      ad terarnas   0orde or ledge  sa  o dapon   e   ou1di
osagol     nta;INi  17.  n             OlON.daa,                                                thehous Phld for d enaialoel pupoe. 11 d.1    d
P.tiouYlat.ifnJe  r                                          19eo   170, ds17AveraIGeroeofrrnenrno- el,ubnsdraa-ceg am
Pda              Midinra   Ol-  urn   oplto    rjettssa  ae   n181bro-                                     eroaprcosl lf              Ibnda   ualocpa  oeetna
tonal Popul.atinbyaeaef           a  and.I   Uthir  satibr  n   etlt   aa.daln5  reepeotinel.  lelng Arldnniprs                                                   erooa ated
dinglifet dfpeita... at -bi-n inratn    ihonnr    per P             caiaf    iu kdcesolecritr dIrherofdeeioeA-y tal. arhIII. sad  uesd I-
leet, and ; 1960elt  lif de 19ct  79 dt-hleo   at7.5yas.Tepas                                 nn nO,oa. h.dwellings ai     Feeeityi  lvn    aeess
meter  fo_eti   yrteas   av   he  lvl  ssma  d-istoo   oalAnar-n urldeligvsentey
and fertility  trends fit projection porpose..                               adiusted inroilseni Nanios~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"iliy "".  ' 1
nba birth rste isequal no nba deat  rt,adts t    heag  snunneene_aroimenn of alliage. on11the prmr.i laspreNaedo.epate
sat i  conetet. This  s tanieve  only  fe fI    Ofu iS   ae    eist                        ri      aho-g    euatoa    omlydoudsrida    gd61
in"'  I'd feelll  sod, the, rat  of declin nfrli        ir.I,1,yraeosloe:aonaishol-ttl,- wal   ad fml    t.ae  a   hn;  aodr
_teli l       _atnel'.                   t'    T.P.-... tdceionaarstlas   orpaeofspoeInmayiarnin
dea  sitloaryounlaton  s rachd -Cbsyea  whehaann_rypopfelctpovde  geebra   vocaIonal, or teache  erI                                             iaisrthn   o    oi
woly; 19th, 1N71 and 1979 Anna.                                               Puell-troihar ratio - poariser, aed ssthcwi-darh   - TotalIsnndents fe1ci-adlin
Porlanon  oo rronoa fernor  -  hleo(hi             er),wrigag    1-ptnsysdswedr   evl   tts  by euI_mbersliof  tanhr  iw the
lation; iBbO, 1971, sod 19)9 dana.                                              adult lineranr ears fearoann f - literate adalta fable an read seA oricef~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d.lli   t.  P
Pthlsitpn .r..t .ate If.. rcI ntl - ttfa    -    ihou l.goth  ae   ttoa   t-aspretg   of. tota.1-9                              adult  pooaie -lsd. 15 iyears a pd 6n1e
year populatons for 195-NI, 1960 Th.an  p907.p ti.            _                             OlbtI    t   fldf,t    4h   f, t    .-                              S-
PiuoonIntf   eafenot      rs      nuu   rwhrteAfubnppo              rSSPIe
pepclthon  199,  l9ti and 199dFai                                                                        ia - vaivlws.i ..    d_lOt..ILt_                  _A 
po_ltin   196.  197   and  197  dataII..roAdnAsn. no-il g                                                               leasrl piO, per  hhusa  offppuanon   eru1s  s
Psell P     b...-lsefoneno    arideen   - Prchngeof  ariePr co rid saad  In. years eheio   reitrto   ofTP                                                ersP   a   wefdt
Frog ril erf'CeTtlr    loaha  daiy    It                                                                             J'ppssa  leg  fu   imsa  ek
Awe   fPo   rdcirn perCa itafi9-7T1A1b-.                                                                                              h.s!fprvptaralCnm   wnlAnnaaserCor      er-,fsd0   hottro
ouinnl  veag   rodier960ragh                19(1-- 1Is,170  fn 197  dana ...                 Tona Labo Peersfih yasnds - dinoomiadblly             . a  Ofv persons, inLudtng
Per. I isrl   uio  fvareefGcn o   euemea)-Capidt                                                   seine  forc s; so   nmlye-u1wloighuewrs.edets   e.
enryauvlo   fonfo   opisaalbl   norr    a   atecire1ouaino-alae.nfnnrsO   aiu   ones   r
pee day.  uvailable    A  tple   oors l mel   rouno,1sot  leesS-h   F -1i               er Iopta l A;16,17  ad17   aa
Furine  ue  in 50moo  1r9c0aa70g aId   ae   vdenhle   site                              nanr A   freers-at   -..hn.fnn  infrIng. ioraeley,  -une dgJsad
an.d   sedstibuioho  ptipo_16-7Eator, ad9a70      si79  lI pCcn       oraes                      nd sIantiny wesadgsasproneofralabrrt;19,
hu1bod  lvel   Bi-dO loll  ad- 17   aa.17   n                                                               197  daa
allowance160 1t7hI  grade      9 in9e pdotei   e   s   n   iaeso   nmlad                         90   90   n   99dn.Teese  ae   n1.'   stcpt                                ae
C'   RPulse pronin,o  rlh  1gaw    holte  nalpof-.   hs edad- ghtoeugae-wageuth                                              e   of. rho pielain,adba   im   redF
F- nlldPI Podyrvy 96-S  1970and. 1977 dor.                                                       no9bac0all19efoce
Pe  apt o7 el  uil A  Ironacaisa  ..o.d. coa    O- , Pr _a apl f   u   e
-tP.AI.id_Paws ouOF                                    f       ItwoPp
ath frh  19hild1970 oRd 1979 dora.aed should he                                                                  , iterpetd EIc  lrntde-hecirn
Aciesato Saf  Wae  rmni   oua o      oa.ta.so ua       u-ctiinlydqaada  ple Iteenal  on-oo   rq Irewecf iter
herD of Iperpl  (toal.onhv,  ndcorl)-ortiestnleaccss  oIafeufIrddie
vote  suply  fnclueeneatadortaeaanra  o  uceratd  hu  unrotemban- t                 ,t,ate dte tal d pPn _ae ly Inom  Leel(r1  e   sis      na   n   ua 
eusaccebieo    roatdhrhle,rtge    raaiayalsusOrlrlnveporyivslrei  ietirIIveaeIetpt
pscdnoasv  ch1f- In eapenlo   oplaios._nn baaruapulI
P ~ ~   ~          4Ad                                                   ti~~~~~~~k-  ..Id d~yrataltOlscfchwortrY.- ihreelsdrodnrisoa
foueeln o  otadyos  locted  on sae thr Il  eatrs too ahous  say  e                  leel ach ajuorart  or bg Iercornoi doiigin ahJw.reas
cvnsidrredua hales arrifrtn reasonable accase ii than P. hose pn urlara         esimteIPpoAtiv Belo uhCoPite PoverY-  Income Lee  fterveIO f-ura
nesohecaecllrcccc Ou-d-nIilcosshrrdfhsheswhod                                                  aI  inna-PrraIfpp             daiv)rbaaedi..alfnOareiahaclui-
(setlo'a oseer11 reads           ib.   d-li
ccanCAc deadiersa  ocrecoct               I vi  orlat --iva I, uban,d end rural -C
rhe collec Ion and dspisel, ouh on wIthot rrasnmen, of huma  sonet                                                     icIcosi....and vocla-   vat `ru in   g
and nasne-wrer by neca-horue sysnma or chroe of:pOtdprviss and slt-                                      icot imi  hoayaa ad r- jccoe Inearrec
Ian totaloivo1a.                                                                                                                                    riot ldivifbIi~c A._LR  .O.t.  O    -
d"u'i,nc isce      oplto   liadb   ubru    IrecI cint  hIysi-D.f
niars qualified  mow    nedlcel school at -ftvereia  -ene.yP1   I.- -b;190170.d99ditO
Porlaio pe NrsvaPeoc-k Pocutioni          i- -toide  ho rshe  of.pacdIi
saean   eml  grauat  curses,     .d         I  d.iOl..                                                                                      g              b    .A



- 20 -
ANNEX I
Pago 4
EEVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980 /l                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (Z, constant prices)
USK Ml.             S                1973-79    1976-79    1979 1/   1979-85 ProJected
GNP at Market Pricee           1,534.1          100.0                3.4         0.6        0.4          3.8
Gross Domestic Investment        184.7           12.0                0.9        -0.7        8.4          6.6
Gross National Savings            154.J          10:0                5.4 2/      3.5      14.7
Current Account Balance           -30.4          -2.0               19.8        10.2        7.0
Export  of Goods, NFS             577.1           37.6              15.6        -1.0      -7.1           2.7
Import  of Goods, NPS            522.5          _34.1               -0.3        -8.1      -8.0           1.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY, 1976-79
Value Added Constant 1973 Prices
US$ Million                         Percentage$
1977    1978    1979    1980       1977    1978    1979    1980
Agriculture                   556.1   558.5   523.9   499.7        51.7    49.2    46.2    44.3
Industry and Mining           180.8   192.8   198.0   206.2        16.8    17.0    17.4    18.3
Services                      337.7   383,9   413.4   422.3        31.4    33.8    36.4    37.4
GDP at Market Prices        1,074.6 1,135.2 1,133.1 1,128.2       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANC
'4ul4rAl e'6de*nt 3/
Billion Sy1is                             1 Of GDP
1977    1978    1979    1980           1977    '1978      1979     1980
Current Receipts                 8.49    8.85    9.72   11.19          31.8      30.8     33.0      35.4
Current Expenditures             4.42    5.23    7.33    9.22          16.7      18.2     24.9      29.1
Current Surplus                  4.07    3.62    2.39    1.97          15.3      12.6      8.1       6.2
Capital Expenditures 4/          2.54    1.79    6.92    1.77           9.5       6.2     23.5       5.6
External Assistance (not)  /    0,09    1.38    1.39    0.12            0.3       4.8      4.7       0.4
Central Government
Billion Sylis                              1 Of GDP
1977    1978    1979    1980            1977     1978      1979     1986
Current Receipts                7.65    8.23    9.18    10.30           28.7      28.6     31.2      32.5
Current Expenditures            3.87    4.72    6.84       8.53         14.5      16.4     23.2      26.9
Current Surplus                 3.78    3.51    2.34       1.77         14.2      12.2      8.0       5.6
Capital Expenditures 4/         2.23    1.66    6.82       1.55          8.4       5.8     23.2       4.9
External Assistance (net)5/    0.09    1.38    1.39        0.12          0.3       4.8      4.7       0.4
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                          Billion Sylis
Dec.   Dec.   Dec.   June
1977   1978   1979   1980
Money 6/                                   9.02  8.50    8.38  11.41
Quasi-Money                                0.67  0.45    0.63   1.02
Overall Money Supply                       9.69  8.95    9.01  12.43
Bank Credit to Public Sector              16.26 18.20   13.67  19.85
Bank Credit to Private Sector              0.69  0.70    0.76   0.72
(Percentages)
1971   1978   1979   1980
Money and Quasi-Money as Z of CDP         36.3   31.1   30.9   36-o
General Price Index (1973z 100)7/        119.9  122.4  125.2  135.5
Annual % changes in:
Bank Credit to Public Sector            14.3   11.9  -24.)   45.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector          -13.0    1.2    7.5   -4.9



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 5
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OP GUINEA
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FL0OWS
BALANCE OF PAYMTS                                                                               MERCRANDISE EXPORTS (Average 1978-801
(Preliminary Estimates)                    1977        1978        1979        1980                                           USS MI _Li
(USS Million)
Bauxite               275.7       67.6
Esport  of Goods, NPS                     309.8        348.2       390.6       577.1                  Alumina                110.2       27.0
Import  of Goods, NPS                    -296.3      -357.8       417.3      -522.5                   Aqr. Comsodities        13.3         3.3
Resource Gap (deficit . -)                 13.5        -9.6       -26.7         54.6                  Other Comodities         8.6        2.1
Total                  i7.         n n
Interest Payments                          -38.9       -43.8       -46.1       -53.1
Workers' Remittances                        -5.6        -6.4        -7.0        -7.9
Other Factor Payments (net)                -8.0       -10.1       -15.0       -39.4             EXTERNAL DEBT, December 31. 1980 /1
Net Transfers                               15.7        32.8         8.9        15.4
Balance on Current Account                -23.3       -37.1       -85.9       -30.4                                                         US$ Min
Public b Private Debt Guaranteed,
Direct Foreign Investment                   NA          NA          NA          NA               Incl. Undisbursed                         1,747.7
Net NLT Borrowing                                                                                      Total Outstanding & Disbursed        1,074.0
Disbursements, Public Borrowing          50.7       105.1       130.9        69.3
Amortization, Public Debt               -97.8       -94.5      -116.2      -112.8
Subtotal, Public Borrowing              -47,1        10.6        14.7       -43.5             DET SERVICE RAXTIOS  FOR 1980                B
Private Sector (net)                    -19.1       -19.9       -15.8        -4.3                  Scheduled Service Pavments
Total Borrowing                         -66.2        -9.3        -1.1       -47.8            - public debt & private debt guaranteed  24.1
Capital Grants 8/                           NA          NA          NA          NA              - private debt nou. guaranteed               14.1
Other Capital (net)                         7.6         4.0        -0.9          1.4            - total debt outstanding & disbursed        38.2
Other Itms (increase in arrears)           50.3        51.6        58.0        49.7
Increase in Reserves                       31.8        52.5        28.4        37.8
Actual Service Paymants
Groas Reserves (end year)                  73.2        59.0        66.4        98.7             - public debt & private debt guaranteed  16.4
Net Reserves (end year)                  -114.3      -117.2      -208.2      -23S.6             - private debt non guaranteed                14.1
- total debt outstsnding & disbursed        30.5
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports                                            44.5        90.1       111.0
of which:  Petroleum                   .         44.5        90.1       111.0
Exports                                   -          -           -           -                        S3111DW L ____ (Sa, 30_   1981) Ottllion usO)
Outatmadima and DiSabursed            54.9   3K8
RATES OF EXCHA2NGE                                                                                   Undi butrsed                           -      27.1
Through                                                       Outs tnding including undisbursed  54 .9  64.9
1970    1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   19?7   1978  1979  1980
SylismUS$                        24.7    24.6   22.7   20.7   20.5   20.3  -2.4   21.1   19.7  19.1  19.0
1/  Preliminary estimates
2/  1974-79.
3/ Local administration not included.
sZ'  Including capital transfers to, and investment on behalf of, state enterprises.
5/  Disbursements less scheduled amortization plus increase in arrears.
6/  Including demand deposits of state enterprises and import prepayments.
7/ GDP implicit deflator
8/ Included in net transfers.



- 22 -
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of December 31, 1981).
Credit                                                           Amount (less Cancellations)
Number   Year    Borrower               Purpose                  Bank    IDA       Undisbursed
-(US$ million)-------
Two loans and 2 Credits have been fully disbursed                 73.5    21.0
849-GUI   1979   Republic of Guinea  First Education                       8.0         2.1
870-GUI   1979   People's Revolu-    First Water Supply                   12.5         8.0
tionary Republic    and Sanitation
of Guinea
952-GUI   1980   People's Revolu-    Rice Development                     10.4         7.3
tionary Republic
of Guinea
953-GUI   1980   People's Revolu-    Second Highway                       13.0         6.9
tionary Republic
of Guinea
TOTAL                                                       73.5    64.9
of which has been repaid                                  21.3      0.0
Total now outstanding including undisbursed   .             52.2    64.9
Total undisbursed                                            0.0    24.3        24.3
B.   Statement of IDA Credits expressed in SDRs
Amount (less Cancallations)
expressed in SDR (million)
IDA Undisbursed
1063-GUI  1981   People's Revolu-    Livestock
tionary Republic    Development                13.3    12.7
of Guinea
1085-GUI  1981   People's Revolu-    Power Project               22.1    18.7
tionary Republic
of Guinea
TOTAL                                                       35.4    31.4
of which has been repaid                                   0.0
Total now outstanding, including undisbursed              35.4
Total undisbursed                                         33.7    31.4



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. 849-GUI First Education Project; US$8.0 million Credit of September 28,
1978; Effectiveness Date: January 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project aims at (i) helping alleviate the country's shortage
of skilled workers by improving and expanding technical training programs,
and (ii) strengthening the Government's educational planning and project
implementation capacity. Civil works and equipment installations are
virtually completed, and training courses for skilled workers and technical
instructors started in December 1980. Nine technical assistance experts are
in post at the technical institutes. Nine Guinean technical instructors have
been successfully trained in Europe and ten more will be trained beginning in
October 1981. For the educational planning component, two nationals are
being trained in France with Unesco financing. Arrangements are being made
for additional Bank-financed fellowships and for a seminar to be organized in
Guinea by Unesco as a first phase of a country-wide manpower study. The
Government remains strongly committed to the project, and project management
is satisfactory.
Cr. 870-GUI   First Water Supply and Sanitation Project;  US$12.5 million
Credit of January 12, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project's objectives are to fulfil the immediate water supply
and drainage needs of Conakry, provide satisfactory sanitation to most of
its population, and strengthen institutions operating in the sector. Imple-
mentation of the physical works, delayed by about 15 months is progressing
slowly and with mixed results. Most large civil works and supply contracts
have now been signed. Results from drilling indicate that the ground water
safe yield is about 50% of the one anticipated at appraisal time and new
sources will have to be developped sooner than anticipated to meet growing
demand. The DEG management team is making headway, although slowly, in
structuring and monitoring its operations. While technical assistance experts
already in place appear to have had limited success until now their interven-
tion had the merit of solving organizational and managerial issues. Total DEG
staff force have again increased by 10% in 1980 and because of shortage of
office, limited material means and insufficient training the increase is
having adverse effect on improvement of operations. UNCDF has recently
approved a credit to make up for shortage of funds in the preparation of field
investigation for a second project; works are under implementation.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
- 24 -age-               5
Cr. 952-GUI   Rice Development Project, US$10.4 million Credit of November 2,
1979; Effectiveness Date: April 14, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
The project consists of creating a specialized planning and
coordination unit for rice development within the Ministry of Agriculture,
upgrading the country's rice research capacity, undertaking a study of
agricultural prices and rural incentives, and carrying out a pilot project
to test and develop technical improvements to rice cultivation practices
by smallholder farmers. The project's technical assistance team and the
producer incentives study team initiated work in mid-1980. Most of the
project's equipment was delivered by the second half of 1981. During 1981
a limited field program was carried out under the pilot project and the
research stations. A larger program is being initiated for the 1982 season.
The producer incentives study progress has been satisfactory: final report
will be submitted in March 1982 and will be discussed with the Government in
April 1982. The construction program has been seriously delayed by financial
difficulties of the enterprise concerned. A new contract is expected to be
signed shortly and interim facilities are being established. Initial project
progress is considered to be satisfactory.
Cr. 953-GUI   Second Highway Project; US$13 million Credit of November 2, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project consists of a three-year program of road rehabilitation
and maintenance with further institutional support to the Ministry of Public
Works, renovation of the National Soils Laboratory and pre-investment studies
on the Conakry-Mamou Road. The first year was used to complete the program
begun under the First Project and the second year to start rehabilitation of
an additional 1,500 kms of priority gravel roads. Procurement of additional
equipment was completed on schedule except for some major pieces. Due to this
delay and also for other reasons, force account brigades' output has declined
the second year and the works are behind schedule.
Cr. 1063-GUI   Livestock Development Project:  US$17.5 million Credit
of November 21, 1980:  Proposed Effectiveness Date:
February 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The project's objective is to increase the productivity of the
Guinean cattle herd, thereby augmenting national meat and milk production,
improving nutrition, and raising the standard of living of cattle-herding
families. The project consists of a nationwide vaccination program, pro-
vision of drugs medicines and mineral licks, provision of credit to increase
availability of draft traction, and upgrading of the livestock husbandry and
veterinary support service. The contractor for infrastructure work is now
being selected. Other consultants to implement the project have been selected
and most of them are in place.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. 1085-GUI   First Power Project; US$28.5 million Credit of December 18,
1980; Effectiveness Date: May 12, 1981; Closing Date:
December 1985.
The project is intended to reinforce the distribution system for
the city of Conakry, construct a training center, housing units and operating
facilities for implementation of a training program, and strengthen the Societe
National d'Electricite (SNE) through consulting services and technical assis-
tance programs. Most contracts for works and procurement of supplies have been
signed with suppliers, and the others have been reviewed and approved by the
Association. Negotiation for technical assistance team is now underway.



- 26                           ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project identified:                           End 1979
(b)  1st Project Preparation Facility Advance:  October 1980
(c)  2nd Project Preparation Facility Advance:  November 1981
(c)  Appraisal:                                    June 1981
(d)  Negotiations Completed:                       February 1982
(e)  Planned date of Credit Effectiveness:         August 1982
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
During Credit Negotiations, the Government agreed to provide
assurances on the following:
A.   Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) the Borrower would confirm that CNCIH was permitted to onlend funds
from the proceeds of the Credit to private enterprises in the manner
envisaged in the DCA (Section 6.01(a) of the draft DCA);
(b) state enterprises would manage autonomously their cash balances
and be exempted from payment of depreciation allowances to the
Government. No cash transfers should be made to the Government
with the exception of distribution of dividends, taxes, and repay-
ments of loans (Sections 3.03(c) and 6.01(b) of the draft DCA);
and
(c) loan agreements between the Borrower and the OPEC Fund, CIDA and
EEC shall have become effective (Section 6.01(c) of the draft DCA).
B.   Conditions of Disbursement
(a) appropriate arrangements between the Central Bank of Guinea and
CNCIH authorizing the latter to onlend funds from the proceeds
of the Credit to state and private enterprises and retain a 3
percentage point margin as fee for processing loan applications
(Schedule 1 (para 4) of the draft DCA);



- 27 -                         ANNEX III
Page 2
C.   Other Conditions
(a) onlending by CNCIH to the four state enterprises and private
enterprises at not less than 13 percent; direct financial relation-
ship of CNCIH with its clients; CNCIH responsibility for appraisal
of loan requests and investment decisions; and, CNCIH accountability
(Section 3.02 of the draft DCA);
(b) establishment by December 31, 1984 of a revolving fund of not less
than US$250,000, replenished quarterly, to cover working capital
needs in foreign exchange of the four state enterprises to be
rehabilitated (Section 3.01 of the draft DCA);
(c) provision of financing for the continued plantation and factory
development of the SIPAR-Labe and Seredou enterprises under their
respective ten-year investment programs, and cause state enter-
prises to continue to carry out operations in accordance with
sound technical, managerial and financial standards after the close
of the Credit (para. 39 and Section 3.04 of the draft DCA);
(d) assurances with regard to the price structure to be applied to the
enterprises to be rehabilitated (Sections 3.05-3.06 of the draft
DCA), their freedom to import necessary goods (Section 3.03 of the
draft DCA) and their capital structure (Section 4.02 of the draft
DCA);
(e) SME's financed by IDA would be majority privately held, would
have a minimum 30 percent equity in their sub-projects and total
capital structure (para. 41 and Schedule 4 of the draft DCA) and
sub-project financed enterprises would have minimum economic and
financial rates of return of 10 percent (Schedule 4 of the draft
DCA);
(f) appointment of project coordinators by MI and MSME by June 30, 1982
(Section 3.07 of the draft DCA); and
(g)  normal disbursement, procurement, record keeping and accounting
conditions are set in Schedules 1 and 3, Sections 3.12 and 4.01 of
the draft DCA, and paras 48-49 of the President's Report.



