DIT NUMBER 1234 GUI
Development Credit Agreement
(industrial Rehabilitation and Promotion Project)
between
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated          q    wk        .       , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1234 GUI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          q(   t- mZ4, 1982, between
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBL C OF GUINEA (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has obtained from the OPEC Fund for Inter-
national Development (hereinafter called OPEC Fund) a loan (here-
inafter called the OPEC Fund Loan) in an amount of $11,000,000 to
assist in financing Part A of the Project on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the OPEC Fund
Loan Agreement), dated January 12, 1982;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the European
Economic Community (hereinafter called the EEC) and from the
Canadian   International  Development   Association   (hereinafter
called CIDA) loans (hereinafter called the EEC Loan and CIDA
Loan, respectivAly) in amounts of approximately $5,500,000 and
$1,200,000, respectively, to assist in financing Parts C and D of
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements
(hereinafter called the EEC Loan Agreement and CIDA Loan Agree-
ment, respectively) to be entered into between the Borrower and
the EEC, and the Borrower and CIDA;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
(said  General   Conditions  Applicable   to  Development   Credit


﻿-2-
Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter
called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "CNCIH" means the Borrower's Credit National pour le
Commerce, l'Industrie et l'Habita.t;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" mean the agreements to be
entered into between CNCIH and State and Private Enterprises
pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement, as amended from time
to time and "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any such agreement;
(c) "Statutes" means the Statuts of CNCIH, approved on
June 8, 1961, as amended from time to time;
(d) "Project Preparation Advances" means the project prepa-
ration advances granted by the Association to the Borrower pur-
suant to exchanges of letters dated June 27, 1980 and September
3, 1980, October 23, 1981 and November 3, 1981 and April 28, 1982
and May 2.1, 1982 respectively, between the Borrower and the
Association;
(e) "MSMEA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Small and
Medium Enterprises and Artisans;
(f) "State Enterprises" means the Seredou quinine planta-
tion and factory, the SIPAR-Labe plantation and essential oil
factory, the SONACAG granite quarry and the SONACAG tile factory;
(g) "Private Enterprise" means a Guinean enterprise in
which one or more private natural or juridical persons hold at
least 51% of the voting rights;
(h) "Working Capital" means the amounts needed by the State
Enterprises to finance consumables, raw materials, spare parts
and fuel, required to run a rehabilitated en- ,.ise;
(i) "Annual Return" means an enterpr.        n.nnual rate of
return, calculated   in  accordance with   di      ed cash   flow
methodology, acceptable to the Association;


﻿-3-
(j) "Sub-loans" means loans under Part A and Part C of the
Project; and
(k) "Investment Code" means the Borrower's investment code,
dated February 20, 1980, as amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to sixteen million six hundred thGusand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods,
works, services and disbursements under Sub-loans required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2


﻿-4-
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from tj.ne to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on Jaiuary 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Jan-
uary 1, and July 1 commencing July 1, 1992, and ending January 1,
2032, each installment to and including the installment payable
on January 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 -f 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter Lo be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B
and E of the Project through the Ministry of Industry, Part D (i)
of the Project through the MSMEA and Parts C and D (ii) through
CNCIH, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate financial and industrial practices, and shall


﻿-5-
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation on the obligations of the Borrower
under paragraph (a) of this Section the Borrower snall, in order
to assure the State Enterprises continuous access to working
capital, establish a working capital fund in the name of the
State Enterprises at a bank acceptable to the Association not
later than December 31, 1984.
(c) The Borrower shall deposit in this fund an initial
amount in foreign currency, to be used by the State Enterprises
to cover the estimated need for working capital of said Enter-
prise in the following calendar quarter, but in any event not
less than the equivalent of $250,000.
(d) The Borrower shall replenish this fund as and when
required to ensure that on the first day of each calendar quarter
during Project execution after esta',lishing the fund the total
aforementioned amount is available in the fund.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as provided in Section 4.02 (c)
hereof for equity investments, the Borrower shall cause CNCIH to
pass on funds on behalf of the Borrower by lending the proceeds
of the Credit, available under Category (1) of the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to the
State Enterprises and the proceeds, available under Category (6)
of said table to Private Enterprises under Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ments whose terms and conditions shall have been approved by the
Association and which shall provide for, inter alia, a direct
financial relationship between CNCIH and such State and Private
Enterprises, an annual interest rate of not less than 13%, reten-
tion by CNCIH of a portion equivalent to three percentage points
of the interest paid by State and Private Enterprises on such
Sub-loans, and allocation of the foreign exchange risk co the
State and Privata Enterprises.
(b)  The Borrower shall cause CNCIH to exercise its rights
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accom-
plish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association
shall otherw'se agree, CNCIH shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.


﻿-6-
(c) The Borrower shall caise CNCIH to submit Sub-loan pro-
posals together with the draft . Isidiary Loan Agreement therefor
to the Association for approval -. accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) authorize   the   State  Enterprises   to  import   items
financed ou* of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with
import licensing and exchange regulations applicable to such
imports; and
(b) provide to each State Enterprise annually in advance a
global licence allowing for the importation of items necessary
for the investments in and operation of said Enterprise; and
(c) take all measures necessary to ensure that no financial
transfers shall have to take place from the State Enterprises to
the Borrower with the exception of normal operating expenses,
dividend payments out of net profits, tax on net profits and
repayment of loans.   For the purpose of this Section, the words
"net profits" mean the surplus remaining after deducting from the
income of an Enterprise during a certain period all the expenses
to earn that income, including the depreciation of assets and
interest on loans, all ascertaincd in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles and certified as such by an
independent external auditor acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) make financial contributions to the Seredou quinine
plantation and factory and to the SIPAR - Labe plantation and
essential oil factory, in order to ensure continuous development
for these two enterprises in accordance with their respective
10-year investment programs; and
(b) cause the State Enterprises to carry out and operate
Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance  with   sound   technical,  financial  and   managerial
standards.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall give the Association
timely notice and a reasonable chance to comment on any proposed


﻿-7-
change in the Statutes, operating instructions or structure of
CNCIH and in the operating instructions or structure of MSMEA
which may affect the execution of the Project;
(b) the Borrower shall at least every six months, commenc-
ing December 31, 1982, furnish to the Association a list of the
official prices charged for outputs from State Enterprises
financed under the Project; and
(c) the Borrower shall not change the prices of outputs of
Enterprises financed under the Project, if such a change would
reduce the Annual Return of State Enterprises or Private Enter-
prises financed by the Credit to less than 10%.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall raise the price for tiles
and granite produced by the SONACAG State Enterprises to a level
that will allow said Enterprises to realize an Annual Return of
at least 10%, in accordance with a timetabie, acceptable to the
Association.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall appoint one civil servant
within the Ministry of Industry and one within MSMEA, to act as
Project Coordinator within their respective Ministries, not later
than June 30, 1982.
Section 3.08. In order to assist the Borrower in the super-
vision of Part A of the Project, carrying out of the studies
under Part B of the Project, the strengthening and training of
staff in MSMEA and CNCIH and the auditing of the Project and the
State  Enterprises,   the  Borrower   shall  employ   engineering,
economic and management consultants and auditors whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association in accordance with the principles
and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981; without
limitation to the foregoing the Borrower shall employ consultants
for purposes of carrying out the studies under Part B (i) of the
Project not later than December 31, 1983.
Section 3.09. Terms of reference for the studies, to be
carried out under Part B (ii) of the Project shall be presented
to the Association for its approval prior to carrying oul: such
studies.


﻿-8-
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1982, take all steps necessary to ensure that no Private Enter-
prise financed under the Project will be excluded, solely on the
basis of total investments, from deriving benefits under the Bor-
rower's Investment Code.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower undertakes to cause adequate
provision to be made for the insurance of the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower shall furnish and shall cause
to be furnished to the Association, promptly upon their prepara-
tion, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain and shall cause to be
maintained records (including cost accounts, fixed assets regis-
ters, stock cards and monthly physical inventories of raw mate-
rials, spare parts and other, consumables) and procedures, ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (includ-
ing its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any rel-dnt
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request .oncerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the venefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of


﻿-9-
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d.) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in. any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Bor-
rower and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause its Ministry of
Industry and MSMEA, CNCIH and the State Enterprises to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently main-
tained appropriate accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Pro-
ject or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts of CNCIH and
the State Enterprises, referred to in paragraph (a) of this Sec-
tion for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with approDriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association,
as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, certified copies of the finan-
cial statements for such year as audited and a certified copy of
the report of such audit by such auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concern-
ing said accounts, and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request; and (iv) furnish annually
to the Association, or more frequently if the Association shall
so request, a report in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, prepared by MSMEA on its efforts to promote
and assist private enterprises in Guinea.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall have the State Enter-
prises audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion in order to establish their net worth, not later than
December 31, 1982 and shall furnish the Association with the
report of that audit, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrove.r shall, not later than March 31, 1983,
furnish to the Association for its approval its proposals for the
capital structure of each State Enterprise.
(c) In order to assure capitalization of the State Enter-
prises, acceptable to the Association, the Borrower undertakes to
contribute the investment in those State Enterprises for the pur-
poses of the Project, financed by the Credit or from other
sources, in the form of debt or share capital. Investment in the
form of debt shall be made through intermediation of CNCIR as
provided in Section 3.02 (a) hereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The measures taken by the Borrower for purposes of
Section 3.03 of this Agreement shall have been amended,
abrogated, waived or suspended in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the carrying out of the Project;
(b) The Statutes of CNCIH shall have been amended, abro-
gated, waived or suspended or the objectives of MSMEA shall have
been changed in such a way as to materially and adversely affect
the carrying out of the Project;
(c) A price change made by the Borrower shall have resulted
in an Annual Return of a State Enterprise or Private Enterprise
financed by the Credit of less than 10%.
(d) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the OPEC Fund Loan, the EEC Loan or the CIDA
Loan shall have been suspended, cancelled or


﻿- 11 -
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement, the EEC
Loan Agreement or the CIDA Loan Agreement; or
(B) any of the said loans shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, can-
cellation,   termination  or  prematuring   is  not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof: (a) the events specified in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur; and (b) the event specified in paragraph (d) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the
proviso of subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Developm'=nt
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) Assurance that CNCIH is authorized to make loans to
State and Private Enterprises as foreseen in this Agreement shall
have been received by the Association;
(b) Measures referred to in Section 3.03 (c) shall have
been carried out to the satisfaction of the Association; and
(c) the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement, the EEC Loan Agreement
and the CIDA Loan Agreement have been duly signed and all
conditions, if any, precedent to the effectiveness of, or initial


﻿- 12 -
disbursement under said Agreements, except for the effectiveness
of this Development Credit Agreement, have been satisfied.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that neither legislation
nor its Statutes prevent CNCIH from lending the proceeds of the
Credit as set forth in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 6.03. The datesef    "&       .280  fqgz- is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b)
of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall termi-
nate or on a date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Industry of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Industry
Conakry
Guinea
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINECOF                              652 MINECOF
for MIE Conakry                      Conakry


﻿- 13 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
By Is(     Mt4W ad          01"4%-        cqt4fer
Authlrized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Packages for               3,050,000          100%
rehabilitation
of State Enter-
prises
(2) Working Capital              960,000          100% of foreign
expenditures and
70% of local ex-
penditures for
imported items
(3) Consultants for              610,000          100% of foreign
supervision of                               expenditures
Part A of the
Project
(4) Building mate-                90,000          100% of foreign
rials, equip-                                expenditures and
ment and vehicles                            70% of local ex-
for MSMEA, Ministry                          penditures for
of Industry and                              imported items
CNCIH
(5) Consultant and             1,130,000          100%
audit services,
studies, technical
assistance, train-
ing and scholar-
ships


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(6) Sub-loans to Private       6,970,000          100% of foreign
Enterprises                                  expenditures and
70% of local ex-
penditures for
imported items
(7) Expatriate housing           180,000          100%
(8) Refunding of Project         870,000          Amount due
Preparation Advances
(9) Unallocated                2,740,000
TOTAL               16,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.


﻿- 16 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to April 27, 1982;
(b) expenditures under Categories (1) and (6) prior to the
approval by the Association of an appropriate arrangement between
CNCIH and the Borrower's Central Bank pursuant to which CNCIH
shall obtain part of the proceeds of the Credit for onlending as
Sub-loans and may retain a 3-percentage-point margin on repay-
ments of Sub-loans by State and Private Enterprises as its fee;
and
(c) expenditures in respect of a Sub-loan to a Private
Enterprise under Category (6), more than ninety days prior to the
date on which the Association shall have received the proposal
and information required by Section 3.02 and Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association, are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objective of the Project is the rehabilitation of
state enterprises and the promotion of privately owned enter-
prises by the provision of both financial and technical assist-
ance. The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A
Rehabilitation of the State Enterprises through the provi-
sions   of  equipment,   civil   works,   engineering,   technical
assistance, training, and working capital all in accordance with
investment programs approved by the Association.
Part B
(i) Carrying out of two feasibility studies on: (a)
the development of the SONACAG ornamental stone
quarry, and (b) the rehabilitation of the SONACAG
slate quarry;
(ii) Carrying out of sector studies, prefeasibility
studies and project preparation work to formulate
an industrial policy for public and private sec-
tors and for a possible follow-up project, with
the  assistance   of  about   three  man-years   of
experts' services to the Ministry of Industry.
Part C
Promotion of Private "nterprises through the provision of
long-term credit for capital investments.
Part D
(i) Assistance to private entrepreneurs in preparing
project proposals for financing by the provision
of equipment, consultants and experts' services
and training to MSMEA and expansion of MSMEA's
office building.
(ii) Improvement of CNCIH's capacity to appraise pro-
jects, undertake credit evaluation and supervise


﻿- 18 -
projects by the provision of equipment, experts'
services and training to CNCIH.
Part E
Selected audits by external auditors of Project expenditures
and audits to determine the net worth of the State Enterprises.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1988.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Four rehabilitation packages, one for each of the four State
Enterprises, each one providing for equipment, civil works, tech-
nical assistance, engineering and supplies, shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For the rehabilitation packages to be procured on the basis
of international competitive biddiig, in addition to the require-
ments of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall pre-
pare and forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of avail-
ability to the public of the first tender or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general pro-
curement notice, in such form and detail and containing such
information as the Association shall reasonably requert; the
Association will arrange for the publication of such notice in
order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of
the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any package remains to be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods in the rehabilitation packages: (i) bidders shall
be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for the imported goods, or the ex-factory price or
off-the-shelf price of other goods, offered in such bid; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes levied in connection with
the importation, or the sales and similar taxes levied in
connection with the sale or delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the
goods shall not be taken into account in the evaluation of the
bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of the goods to the place of their use
or installation shall be included.


﻿- 20 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for construction, equipment and vehicles for the
Ministry of Industry, MSMEA and CNCIH may be procured on the
basis of comparative shopping in accordance with local procedures
which permit participation of national as well as foreign firms
and which shall be acceptable to the Association.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qua-
lification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower
to the Association for its comments before the applicants are
nitified of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make
such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said
list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all "package" contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to. the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidd -r to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by
the supervisory consultants referred to in Section 3.08 of this
Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,


﻿- 21 -
together with the recommendations for award by the said consul-
tants and such other information as the Association shall reason-
ably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions )f the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph,  the   Borrower  shall  furnish  to   the  Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Investment in Private Enterprises
Private sector investment shall be undertaken through inter-
mediation by CNCIH, in the following manner:
(a) Private Enterprises prepare Sub-loan requests, with or
without the assistance of MSMEA.
(b) Private Enterprises or MSMEA submit these Sub-loan
requests to CNCIH for its appraisal.
(c) the Sub-loan requests, appraised by CNCIH, are sub-
mitted to the Association in accordance with Section 3.02 (c) of
this Agreement.
(d) Among other things, loan requests should show that:
-    the applicant is a Private Enterprise;
-    at least 30% of the cost of the project for which
the Sub-loan is requested will be contributed to
the Private Enterprise by the applicant as equity;
-    the net worth of the Private Enterprise, after
investment financed under the Project, will repre-
sent at least 30% of the total assets of said
Enterprise;
-    the project for which the Sub-loan is requested is
likely to result in an Annual Return of at least
10%.
(e) Loan requests should describe the proposed procurement
procedures which should be in accordance with appropriate commer-
cial practices, to ensure economic and efficient procurement,
taking into account price, quality, service and other essential
factors. Procurement procedures should include International
Competitive Bidding procedures as set forth in the Guidelines
(referred to in Schedule 3) for tenders on contracts exceeding
$2,000,000 or as otherwise may be reasonably requested by the
Association.


﻿- 23 -
(f) Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the
amount of each individual Sub-loan shall not exceed the
equivalent of $2,000,000.
(g) Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, each Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement shall: (i) be for a term of 2 to 15 years,
and (ii) provide for an appropriate period of grace not exceeding
five years.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of          ,
I98 1.
FOR SECRETARY


