Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21363
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26710)
ON A
CREDIT
lN THE AMOUNT OF SDRs 17.2 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR AN
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND CIVIL SERVICE REFORM PROJECT
MARCH 29, 2001
Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Unit
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
Official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUJRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =  Kenya Shilling (K Sh)
US$1.00     =  K Sh 50 (11/30/1994)
=  K Sh 77.55 (03/26/2001)
K Sh I      =  US$ 0.02 (11/30/1994)
= US$ 0.01290 (3/26/2001)
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CERS      Compulsory Early Retirement Scheme
CPF       Comprehensive Project Framework
CSRP      Civil Service Reform Programme
CSRS      Civil Service Reform Secretariat
DFID      Department for International Development
DPM       Directorate of Personnel Management
ESAF      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FMCA      Financial Management Control and Audit
GCS       Government Computer Services
GOK       Government of Kenya
GTI       Government Training Institutes
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDA       International Development Association
IPPD      Integrated Payroll and Personnel Database
IPRSP     Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
KIM       Kenya Institute of Management
KIA       Kenya Institute of Administration
KRA       Kenya Revenue Authority
LSRCC    Legal Sector Reform Co-ordinating Committee
LSRP      Legal Sector Reform Programme
MTEF      Medium Term Expenditure Framework
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NGO       Non-Governmental Organisation
NSC       National Steering Committee
O & M     Operations and Maintenance
OAG       Office of the Attorney General
PE        Pay and Emoluments
PER       Public Expenditure Review
PFP       Policy Framework Paper
PRM       Portfolio Review Mission
PSC       Public Service Commission
PSMTAP  Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project
PSR       Public Status Report
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
QSA       Quality Review Assessment
SAC       Structural Adjustment Credit
SAP       Systems Application Programme
SIDA      Swedish International Development Agency
TA        Technical Assistance
TTL       Task Team Leader
VERS      Voluntary Early Retirement Scheme
WAN       Wide Area Network
Vice President    Callisto Madavo
Director     Harold Wackman
Division Chief/Manager    Brian Levy
StaffMember      Harry Garnett



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
CONTENT
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                             1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                            1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry  2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                     7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                      14
6. Sustainability                                                          15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                           18
8. Lessons Learned                                                         20
9. Partner Comments                                                        24
10. Additional Information                                                 25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                       43
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                       47
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                       49
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                       50
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components       52
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                          53
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                      54
Annex 8. Candid Comments from Kenyan Interviewees                          55
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P001367                     Project Name: Institutional
_ Development and Civil Service Reform
Team Leader: Oladipupo 0. Adamolekun   TL Unit: AFTI2
ICR Type: Core ICR                      Report Date: March 29, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Institutional           L/C/TF Number: IDA-26710; TF-
Development and                        20871; TF-20978
Civil Service Reform
Country/Department KENYA                          Region: Africa Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: BI - Institutional
I Development       I_                 I
KEY DATES
Original        Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/15/93          Effective:  04/18/95      04/18/95
Appraisal:  11/28/94            MTR:  1996             11/1996
Approval:  12/20/94          Closing: 04/3 0/98       06/30/2000
BorrowerlImplementing  Government of Kenya/Directorate of Personnel
Agency:  Managefment
Other Partners:  Department for International Development (U.K.),
Dutch Development Agency, Swedish International
_________________________ =Development Agency
STAFF                    Current                 At Appraisal
Vice President: Callisto Madavo        Edward Jaycox
Count ry Manager: Harold Wackman          Francis Cola,o
Sector Manager: Brian Levy               Robert Hindle
Team Leader at ICR: Oladipupo Adamolekun    Khaled Sherif
ICR Primary Author: Jack Titsworth
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely,
L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High,
SU-Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: Unsatisfactory
Sustainability: Unlikely
Institutional Development Impact: Modest
Bank Performance: Unsatisfactory (Mixed)
Borrower Performance: Unsatisfactory (Mixed)
QAG (if available)      ICR
Quality at Entry: Not applicable        Satisfactory
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes                  Yes



2
Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Context
The Institutional Development and Civil Service Reform Project was conceived and
planned in the early 1990s, some thirty years after independence. The role of the
original, post independence Civil Service was narrowly defined on maintaining good
government, law and order. Subsequently, the Civil Service, and the public sector
generally, burgeoned when they were transformed into a vehicle intended to foster
social and economic development (although the Kenyan Civil Service operated
effectively and was seen as one of the best in sub-saharan Africa until it began
declining about the end of the 1970s). Problems that developed in tandem with
expansion included excessive employment with attendant overstaffing, and declining
productivity, service levels, pay, morale, discipline and ethics.
Employment in the mainstream civil service (excluding the Teachers' Service and
local government employees) grew from 63,000 in 1963 to 272,000 in 1992
portraying the objectives mentioned above as well as Government's commitment to be
an employer of last resort. Over the same period, reflecting the same policies, the
Teachers' Service increased from 40,000 to 203,000.
The steady growth in levels of employment was shadowed by a steady downward
trend in the salaries and wages paid to civil servants. Economic growth generally
lagged behind employment growth, so budgetary constraints resulted in salary
increases being generally below the rises in the cost of living. At the same time, the
civil service wage bill was squeezing operational and maintenance (O&M)
expenditures and, thereby, progressively and negatively effecting civil service
productivity.  In tandem  with these changes, personnel management practices
deteriorated and morale gradually eroded. Furthermore, by the early 1990s there was
an increasingly expressed need for enhanced civil service accountability to its public
and other stakeholders.
In May 1992, a year when Kenya was reverting after many years to multi-party
democratic practice, Government completed The Kenya Civil Service Reform
Programme and Action Plan whose objectives were to i) improve financial viability
in the short and medium term, ii) reverse the progressive decline in efficiency and
productivity; and iii) strengthen capacity. In addition the Policy Framework Paper
(PFP) for 1994-96, beginning with the 1994/95 budget, called for the shifting of
budget resources toward the core functions of government. The Project was prepared
in anticipation of the Bank's Structural Adjustment Credit and the IMF's Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) that were oriented towards helping
Government achieve its main goal of reducing unemployment and poverty through
accelerated economic growth and improved delivery of economic and social services.
The SAC in particular was to help Government focus on reforms that included
improving the efficiency of the civil service through voluntary retirement and the
rationalization of 12 ministries, and providing better incentives to build needed
capacity. The ESAF programme included the elimination of ghost workers, the



3
adoption of a pilot programme for Payroll Management and Personnel Information
Systems through the introduction of an Integrated Payroll and Personnel Database
(IPPD) system covering six ministries and one department, and the development of
staffing norms.
Original Objectives
The Project was thus developed within the context of Government's Programme as
supported by the SAC and the ESAF; its key objectives, as framed by Government
and the Bank were as follows:
(a) to achieve an overall rationalisation of staffing and improved establishment
control leading to better resource allocation, forward planning, productivity
improvement and cost-effective delivery of services;
(b) to introduce wide-ranging compensation reforms resulting in a simplified and
more transparent grading structure, better aligned to the external markets, and
with better pay relativities;
(c) to introduce better personnel management practices to obtain better performance
from existing staff and attract high quality recruits into the service;
(d) to improve opportunities for staff development through better planning and
delivery of training by the Kenya Institute of Administration (KIA) and other
similar bodies; and
(e) to commence the rationalisation of five target Ministries to achieve quantifiable
improvements in service delivery to Kenya's citizens (Ministries of: Agriculture
and Rural Development; Health; Finance and Planning; Land Reclamation,
Regional and Water Development; and, Roads and Public Works under their
current names).
3.2 Revised Objectives:
Context for the First Revision
The first phase of Kenya's Civil Service Reform Programme (1993-1997) was driven
largely by the fiscal need to reduce the size of the mainstream civil service, but it was
not anchored in a coherent strategy for reforming the role of government writ large.
For example, although the initial civil service retrenchment exercise proceeded
quickly, its cost containment objectives were rapidly contradicted and frustrated by
the awarding of a huge pay rise to the Teachers' Service and the politically motivated
hiring of a large number of additional teachers in the run-up to the 1997 elections.
Consequently, many of the Project's earlier activities did not contribute significantly
to improving wider public sector performance.
Following a mid-term review of the Project in 1996, and Cabinet's approval of a new
strategy paper, the objectives of the Project were reconfigured in 1998 to focus
strategically on reshaping the role of Government with an emphasis on further



4
reduction of staff; reductions in functions; improvements in service delivery; and
improved budgeting and controls, utilising the Medium Term Expenditure Framework
(MTEF) approach. Civil Service Reform, belatedly, was to be integrated within a
wider public sector reform effort that would address the overall fiscal situation that
was exacerbated by high employee costs and low performance.  The Project's
objectives were thus revised to help Government redefine its core functions and
embark upon a more comprehensive programme of public sector reform that
embraced public expenditure management, ministerial rationalisation, as well as the
formulation and implementation of the economic recovery programme, as set out
below.
Revised Objectives as per the October 1998 Re-orientation
(a) Rationalisation of staffing and improved staffing control;
(b) Introducing compensation reform;
(c) Improving personnel management practices;
(d) Improving opportunities for staff development;
(e) Ministerial rationalisation;
(f) Development and Implementation of a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework;
(g) Strengthening Government Finance and Accounting Functions; and
(h) Legal and Judicial Reform.
Context for the Second Revision
In July 1999, the President launched a Change Initiative in the Public Service,
referring specifically to the need to tackle the problems of inefficiency and corruption
throughout the public service. The Project's objectives were thus revised for a final
time to finance the salaries of four of the six-member "Change Team," recruited by
Government in July 1999 from the Kenyan parastatal and private sector and
international organisations, and appointed to key leadership positions in the civil
service. A final objective was thus appended to the 1998 list.
Revised Objective as per the September 1999 Re-orientation
(a) Support for Government's change initiative through the provision of technical
advisory services.
3.3 Original Components:
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as
the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives.
Part A: Staffing Rationalization
1. Improving the design of VERS, including carrying out a review of the costs and
benefits of the system;
2. Developing an overall structure for establishment and payroll control;



5
3. Developing and implementing of a new Integrated Payroll and Personnel Database
system;
4. Strengthening the capacity of CSRS in managing the reform program; and
5. Acquisition of vehicles and computers for CSRS.
Part B: Compensation Reforms
1. Carrying out a comprehensive review of pay and benefits, grading policies and
procedures and job evaluation techniques;
2. Carrying out a study on civil servants' housing scheme; and
3. Implementing a pilot program on performance-related pay system.
Part C: Personnel Management
1. Developing a human resource strategy and a training scheme in change
management techniques;
2. Carrying out a program for the improvement of personnel management
organization and procedures, including options for decentralization; and
3. Developing a modem performance appraisal system.
Part D: Staff Development
1. Strengthening the Kenya Institute of Administration in providing high quality
market-oriented training courses to civil servants and retirees through the
acquisition of computers, office equipment and infrastructure rehabilitation;
2. Carrying out a review of the structure of the KIA, its course portfolio and other
services;
3. Improving the financial management of KIA;
4. Assisting the Government training institute, Mombasa, in training retirees
retrenched under VERS;
5. Training for staff in CSRS, DPM, NSC and Ministerial Reform Committees in
civil service management and related fields.
Part E: Rationalization of Ministries
1. Carrying out rationalization.programs in selected ministries involving:
(a) carrying out an organizational review of each ministry;
(b) assisting in the design and execution of implementation programs;
(c) carrying out a review of management structures and practices, including the
personnel management function;
(d) updating job descriptions, re-grading posts and introducing a new performance
appraisal system;
(e) improving establishment control through building interim MIS systems to
improve monitoring of staff numbers;
(f) carrying out studies on staffing norms; and
(g) acquisition of computers, vehicles and other equipment.



6
3.4 Revised Components:
Revision of January 21, 1999
2. Carrying out a redefinition of the core functions and policy priorities of the
Government.
Part F: - Medium Term Expenditure Framework
- Preparation and implementation of the Medium Term Expenditure Framework
Part G: - Accounting and Auditing Functions
- Assisting the Borrower in carrying out improvements in the office of the
- Accountant General through the provision of technical advisor services,
equipment and training.
Part H: - Legal and Judicial Reform
- Assisting the Borrower implement legal and judicial reforms through the
provision of technical advisory services, equipment and training/
Revision of September 22, 1999
Part I:  - Institutional Support for Economic Recovery Programme
- Formulation and implementation of the Borrower's economic recovery
programme through the provision of technical advisory services.
3.S Quality at Entry:
The objectives of the Project were highly consistent with Kenya's 1991/92 -1993/94
PFP, *with the Kenya Civil Service Reform Programme and Action Plan of 1992, and
with the Framework for Policy Actions set out in Government's presentation to the
December, 1994 Consultative Group Meeting in Paris entitled Kenya's Progress in
Reform, Oct. 1993 - Oct. 1994. They were also consistent and planned in concert
with the major SAC and ESAF credits of the Bank and the Fund. However, the ICR
mission would agree with the conclusions reached about the Project, firstly in 1996 by
the Mid-Term Review Mission (MTR) and later, in 1999, by a Kenya Portfolio
Review Mission (PRM) and, by a Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA).
The MTR remarked that the Project lacked a finance and budgeting reform
component that should logically have been linked to the ministerial rationalisation
process (this component was added as the MTEF component in the 1998 re-
orientation of the Project). The MTR also noted there was no specific mention of the
Work Ethic in the present remit of the Project, despite earlier references to its
importance in the programme.  With respect to Strategic Vision and Project
Objectives, the MTR noted that the Project lacked a focus on the delivery of services
to the people, and that the performance indicators associated with the Project's
objectives focused on inputs whereas they should have focused on outputs and longer-
term outcomes.



7
On its part, the PRM stated that, "The first phase of Kenya's civil service reform
programme (1993-97) was largely driven by the fiscal need to downsize the civil
service. Thus the Project was supporting a programme that was not anchored in a
coherent strategy for reforming the role of the Government. As a result, much of the
activities funded by the Credit have not contributed significantly to the improvement
of public sector performance." The QSA, regarding the- soundness of the Project
design commented, "The Project was an old-style public sector management reform
Project which was over-ambitious and not based on sufficient in-depth sector work; it
seriously misjudged GOK's willingness to undertake reform." With respect to the
Project's readiness for implementation at approval, the QSA concluded that, "There
needed to be a more in-depth preparation undertaken jointly with the key stakeholders
to build ownership."
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Summary of the Overall Project Including the Original Objectives and Those
Added Later.
The policy and practical achievements of the Project during its initial, planned
implementation-period of three years were clearly far below expectations, thus the
Project is given an outcome rating of unsatisfactory for this phase. One could give
credit for some achievement at the output level whilst noting failure at the outcome
level attributable to political factors beyond the control of the Project's managers.
After two-years of extended operation, the Project still did not realise several of its
original objectives (although it should be noted that some additional, far-reaching
objectives were added to its statement of purpose). Some of the originally envisaged
activities have been completed after five years, and work on several of them is still
underway. One must recognise that progress is being achieved under the rubric of the
recently added objectives, but not enough had been accomplished when the Project
was completed, for more than an unsatisfactory rating to be assigned overall.
Original Project
a) Achieve an overall rationalisation of staffing and improved establishment
control leading to better resource allocation, forward planning, productivity
improvements and cost-effective delivery of services.
The initial retrenchment objectives set for the VERS component of the Reform
Programme were achieved. By June 30, 1996 a total of 30,027 staff in grades A to G
exited the Service under VERS. VERS continued to be implemented up to March
2000 and all 42,132 posts vacated by VERS were abolished.  Government
commissioned an independently conducted follow-up survey on the effect of VERS
on retirees. Published in 1995, it concluded that VERS generally had a positive
impact although there were elements of negative effect as well. VERS fiscal impact
has been mixed. It was less than 2 per cent of recurrent expenditure, and hence had a
minimal effect in helping Government meet its target for total expenditure as a
percentage of GDP. Furthermore, VERS did result in a number of ministries being



8
deprived of essential services. In terms of the fiscal deficit, the VERS deficit was
quite significant over 1994-1996, ranging from 3 per cent to 17 per cent. VERS did
not contribute, however, to either better compensation packages for civil servants, or
to higher 0 & M allocations, hence it did not contribute to productivity improvements
nor help improve the delivery of services to the public.
With respect to Establishment Control, the intent was to ensure there would be a
reliable, accurate and continuous system for maintaining civil service payroll and
personnel data, enforce current personnel recruitment policies and ensure the
sustainability of the impact of the VERS. By 1997, Government had made significant
progress in this area of the Project. A head-count of four ministries was successfully
completed by 1997 and of all ministries by early 1998. An inter-ministerial group,
which had successfully developed and documented the full specifications for the
Integrated Payroll and Personnel Database System (IPPD), were able to make it
function in the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning and were preparing to
order equipment for all ministries. But the effective functioning of the IPPD also
required the establishment of a Wide Area Network (WAN). This was delayed due to
the need to rationalise it in relation to the Central Computer System at the Treasury,
so there was not a functioning IPPD system in place by the end of the Project. In the
meantime, payroll audit teams have been established and training has been provided
for salaries personnel on the administration of better complement control and payroll
management systems. As well, more powerful computers have become available on
which the IPPD will run. The work required to complete the implementation of the
IPPD system on the new computers has been well documented, is intended to include
both the Civil Service and the Teachers' Service, and is slated for inclusion in the
proposed, Bank-financed Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project.
b) To introduce wide-ranging compensation reforms resulting in a simplified and
more transparent grading structure, better aligned to the external markets, and
with better pay relativities.
This objective was oriented towards improving pay packages and the grading
structure to enable the civil service to recruit, retrain and motivate competent
employees, the assumption being that retrenchment would be accompanied by the
restructuring of the compensation system. A Commission has submitted its report and
a cabinet paper has been prepared on this matter; it recommends harmonisation of the
structures of pay and benefits in the public sector.'
A Permanent Civil Service Remuneration Board has been proposed and is in the
process of being established to review civil service pay and benefits on a regular
basis. Restructuring of grades has also been done and ministries have already
submitted their reactions.  A study on housing and transport policy has been
conducted and a final report is ready.
In 1994, Government raised the salary of civil servants by 10 to 16 per cent. Other
modest improvements included provision of an outpatient medical allowance and a 20
' Commission to Harmonise Terms and Conditions of Service in the Public Service (Kipkulei
Commission)



9
per cent increase in house allowance in 1995. In 1997, Government raised civil
servants' salaries by 20 to 40 per cent while studying the recommendations of the
Salary Review Commission. But the goal of closing the civil service - private sector
gap by at least 40 per cent over the next three years commencing with the 1999/2000
financial year is monumental given the results of a comparative study conducted in
1996. It revealed that, on average, private sector pay was 450 per cent and 300 per
cent higher for professional and non-professional jobs respectively than in civil
service. In essence the pay of civil servants is still far below the target private-sector
levels that Government set out to achieve in its 1992 Action Plan.
c) To introduce better personnel management practices to obtain better
performance from existing staff and attract high quality recruits into the service.
This activity was meant to improve the personnel management functions, viz.;
recruitment, induction, career planning and progression, and capacity-building. The
Project was also concerned with rationalisation of institutions involved in such
personnel management organisations as the Public Service Commission.  Some
reorganisation has been realised in the line ministries, and existing personnel units are
being modernised through computerisation. Several Schemes of Service have been
revised, and Schemes of Service are under development for cadres without them. A
Payroll Audit Team has been established at DPM to monitor payment of salaries. A
Task Force on the Management of Relevant Budget has been established. Human
Resource Development officers have been posted to ministries to put in place
programmes based on needs assessment. Training has also been conducted for 12
ministries on performance management. A performance appraisal instrument for
senior officers in job Groups J and above has been introduced, but it is not part of an
integrated performance management system in which the performance objectives
against which an individual is rated are based on a hierarchy of objectives derived
from, for example, the MTEF for an individual's parent ministry. Some outstanding
matters include implementation of a fast track promotion scheme for "high flyers" and
introduction of individual performance contracts for senior managers. Inventories are
being carried out in ministries/departments and a Code of Conduct for public servants,
enshrined in a parliamentary bill, has been gazetted.
d) To improve opportunities for staff development through better planning and
delivery of training by the Kenya Institute of Administration (KIA) and other
similar bodies.
One of the aims of the Project is to improve the quality of services delivered through
reform of the personnel management system, including strengthening the training
capacity of the Kenya Institute of Administration (KIA), the Government Training
Institutes (GTI) at Mombasa and Embu, and other government training institutions.
Training will thereafter be linked to needs assessment. Three developments have
since taken place: the creation of Human Development units in those line ministries to
which training responsibilities have been decentralised from the DPM; the
development (but not the adoption) of an overall public sector policy on training and
capacity-building; and the refurbishing of KIA as a major training facility for middle
and senior public sector staff Trainee accommodation and institutional staff for KIA
have been significantly increased.



10
Legally semi-autonomous, KIA continues to operate under the aegis of the DPM with
government employees as staff and with DPM  budgetary supervision.   KIA
involvement in hosting workshops and sensitisation seminars related to the activities
of CSRP has increased. Training programmes under the CSRP have also been
conducted both locally and abroad for the staff in the Ministries of Lands, Finance
and others.   Government has not yet put in place, however, the planned,
comprehensive demand-driven training plan that was intended to reflect revised
ministerial functions and to be linked to the performance appraisal process.
e) To commence rationalisation of five target Ministries to achieve quantifiable
improvements in service delivery to Kenya's citizens.
The. ministerial rationalisation exercise was intended to identify inter- and intra-
ministerial relationships, establish the core functions of a given ministry, strengthen
organisational structures and processes necessary in the discharge of the identified
core functions of the ministries, and strengthen deconcentration of functions to field
units. The ultimate objective was to make service delivery more efficient and
effective.
Piloting of the ministerial rationalisation exercise began in six target ministries in
1995. The Ministries of Agriculture and Health were at the forefront. Government
approved the rationalisation recommendations pertaining to organisational
restructuring and optimal staffing of the then Ministry of Agriculture for
implementation. Management reviews undertaken in the Health Sector led to the
formulation of a policy framework that was used to decentralise the management of
public health facilities. Four more ministries were completed and, after some delay,
the lessons learned from these first six were applied to the rationalisation of six more
ministries by 1997.  Following the lessons learnt under the pilot rationalisation
process, Government developed and approved for implementation a comprehensive
ministerial rationalisation and staff rightsizing exercise to be undertaken during CSRP
Phase II.
It should be noted, however, that the rationalisation of individual ministries was
started before they had been assigned their core functions. This explains in part some
of the difficulties experienced with rationalisation; the core functions of government
itself should ideally have been identified first. An initial exercise selected eight such
functions and, in February 2000, a more refined list of core functions was identified,
recognising Cabinet's prerogative to decide on the core functions of government.
In 1999, Government, on the basis of the core functions, reduced the number of
ministries from 27 to 15. This reduction disrupted the rationalisation process that had
already begun in some ministries. During the merger of ministries, departments at
different stages of rationalisation found themselves in the same Ministry. The re-
grouping made some ministries too amorphous to be effectively managed. One
should mention that this phase in the ministerial rationalisation process, based upon
prepared guidelines, was participatory, involving all Permanent Secretaries. It has
been completed and further work is in progress.   The current, post-Project,
retrenchment plan flows from this exercise.  In the course of this phase, some
ministries identified functions to be privatised and/or commercialised; the Kenya



I1
Revenue Authority was established as an autonomous body. In addition, the Auditor-
General's office has been given full autonomy to hire professional retirees on a
contractual basis. A large measure of autonomy has also been extended to the Public
Service Commission.
In many respects then, the rationalisation process has gone considerably beyond the
original objectives of the Project. What is not yet evident though, is any indication
that this has led to any quantifiable achievement in the delivery of services to citizens.
Additional Objectives as per the October 1998 Re-orientation
f) Development and Implementation of a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework.
The Kenya Public Expenditure Review of 1997 identified key weaknesses that made
the Government of Kenya (GOK) budget, for all intents and purpose, a "wish list" of
needs compiled without taking account of available resources.  Subsequently an
Economic Forum in. May 1998 recommended adoption of a MTEF and in September
1998, Treasury initiated its own MTEF process. Government then requested, and the
Bank agreed, to amend the CSRP in October 1998 to enable some funds to be devoted
to MTEF preparation and implementation.
Initially, government ministries, lenders and donors experienced teething problems
with MTEF but, in October 1999, Government's new "change team" undertook to
provide strong support to MTEF preparation for the next fiscal year (FY2000/01) and
the Bank supported a major MTEF workshop for senior government personnel with
resource persons from the Bank's PRMS and three MTEF implementing countries:
Uganda, Ghana and Tanzania. Soon afterwards, GOK established its institutional
arrangement for carrying out the MTEF preparation process and proceeded to prepare
Kenya's first MTEF budget for FY2000/0 1 -FY2002/03.
It remains to be seen whether the MTEF approach will actually achieve improvements
in Kenya's public expenditure management as it is only in its first year of
implementation, but the initial experience augurs well for MTEF's being implemented
comprehensively and effectively.
g) Strengthening Government Finance and Accounting Functions.
This sub-project, carried out with joint Bank, DFID and SIDA support, was intended
to help address the main causes of the serious systemic weaknesses evident in the
government financial management system. Initially, consultants and the Government
team identified the main issues as well as short, medium and long term actions that
could ensure that Government finance, accounting and auditing functions were
actually reformed and made responsive to its needs.
They jointly produced a Comprehensive Project Framework (CPF) that set out the
overall strategy for improving . the performance of the finance and accounting
functions and the three supporters undertook to finance different components (the
Bank financed the hardware). Several initiatives were activated to implement Stage 1,
preparation for the Year 2000 transition issues and a contingency plan for managing



12
data. Government procurement processes caused serious implementation delays and
it was only the final extension of the Project that enabled computers and related
equipment to be delivered in time to be financed by the Project.
The other donors, especially SIDA, have worked in parallel to help the Accountant
General with training related to Financial Management Control and Audit (FMCA).
The Bank has been at the forefront in supporting Government to take FMCA further
by reviewing and restructuring the flow-of-funds mechanisms in Government. This
process resulted in Treasury Circular No. 3 of March 1, 2000, which sets out a new
mechanism for the management and flow of Donor Funds from off-shore Special
Accounts, as well as Government counterpart funds, through to the district level.
Bank interest in this Project will continue to be reflected under the proposed Public
Sector Management Technical Assistance Project. This will support the review
process of the enabling legislation that is required for the new integrated financial
management system to be implemented.
h) Legal and Judicial Reform.
The 1998 re-orientation of the Project included legal and judicial reform objectives
that led to the establishment of the Legal Sector Reform Co-ordinating Committee
(LSRCC) which was representative of the whole legal sector. The LSRCC's broad
mandate was "to undertake a comprehensive review of the legal sector and
recommend appropriate measures to enhance its operational efficiency." To carry out
the stated mandate, the LSRCC took a commendable, consultative approach with
stakeholders within the sector and solicited written views from the public. These
activities formed the basis for the Legal Sector Reform Programme (LSRP). A pilot
judicial service survey of sectoral representatives and the public identified the main
impediments to service delivery in the judiciary. The LSRCC commissioned a
researcher to identify the status of accomplishments of eight task forces that had been
mandated to examine laws relating to persons with disabilities, penal laws and
procedures, children, landlord-tenant issues, business entities, women, press laws, and
public order and security. Some of the findings from these analytical studies were
incorporated in the LSRP. The most critical problems in the sector were identified
and a programme of interventions was proposed; the LSRP was completed, adopted
by Government and presented to development partners.  Key recommendations
include:
* The rationalisation of the functions of the Office of the Attorney General (OAG)
to transfer its current political functions to a Justice ministry, leaving the former
with purely professional functions; and
*  Strengthening the functional independence of the Judicial Service Commission to
improve its oversight capacity over the Judiciary.
Discussions are on-going with interested donors to determine areas and levels of
possible donor support. Bank interest in further work on this component is also being
considered under the proposed Public Sector Management Technical Assistance
Project. For the LSRP to be implemented, it should have its own operational focal
point but, given the interdependence and synergies between legal sector reform and



13
the broader public sector, it should also be linked both operationally and
programmatically to other, on-going reforms.
Additional Objectives as per the October 1999 Re-orientation
i) Technical Services in Support of Government's Change Initiative.
The stance of the Bank and others to limit lending and other financial support led
Government, by late 1998, to propose the notion of an elite group of technocrats, a
six-member "Change Team" to lead the implementation of economic, anti-corruption
and other policy reforms and, thereby, to restore investor, lender and donor credibility
in Kenya.
The Project thus financed the salaries of four of the six-person "Change Team"
recruited by Government in July 1999 from the Kenyan parastatal and private sector
and international organisations and appointed to leadership positions in the civil
service (the other two are on detail from the World Bank and cannot, therefore, be
financed by the Bank).  These top-ranking technocrats are leading the change
initiative that the President launched in July 1999 with particular reference to tackling
the problems of inefficiency and corruption throughout the public service. By June
2000 some significant achievement could be attributed in large measure to this Team.
For example, following on the redefinition of the core functions of government
announced in May 1999, the number of ministries was reduced in September 1999
from 27 to 15; the position of Permanent Secretaries as accounting officers fully
responsible for the management of the finance and personnel functions in their
respective ministries and departments was clarified; Government produced its Interim
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (IPRSP) in which Public Sector Reform (PSR)
issues were addressed in several parts; the FY 2000/01 Budget was prepared in
accordance with MTEF principles, and Government has initiated a second, major
retrenchment plan to be implemented during FY2000/2001 and FY2001/2002.
On the negative side, many civil servants perceive the Change Team as a country-
level "Project Implementation Unit." They are resentful of the high salaries and
emoluments the Team members receive and aver that they too would be much more
effective if they received as much. The Change Team, although effective in the short
run, is not considered to be a long-term solution to achieving sustainable public sector
reform.
4.2 Outputs by components:
See section 4.1.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable



14
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact achieved under the original objectives of the
Project are disappointing although, in several instances, changes were initiated that
could endure and fructify so long as political support for them is sustained. There was
a positive contribution to reducing the size of the civil service per se and to designing
and initiating the implementation of a comprehensive establishment control system.
Only minor progress was made towards bringing civil service pay packages closer to
their private sector comparators.  Although a personnel appraisal system  was
introduced, it is not yet apparent that its application has contributed to actually
improving individuals' performance or to identifying systematically their training
needs. Progress was made however in strengthening the organisational linkages
between the newly created Human Development Units in line ministries and the
various government training institutions.
Ministerial rationalisation advanced slowly under the original mandate, but achieved a
good deal of progress that should realise long-term results, once the Project was re-
oriented. Similarly the tight definition of the core functions of government along with
the development and implementation of the MTEF, and the process of strengthening
government finance and accounting systems are well entrenched. Together they
provide a sound basis for better management of both financial and human resources.
The achievements under the legal and judicial component set the stage for
strengthening the functioning of these two key areas, but it remains to be seen
whether the recommendations will actually be implemented by this sector. The
"Change Team" supported by the Project has achieved a good deal of institutional
effect by, inter alia, helping permanently to restructure government in accordance
with newly defined core functions, develop an IPRSP, support MTEF and initiate
large-scale civil service retrenchment. The organisational and institutional changes
they have effected should endure although it is not certain whether the "Team" itself
will remain in place for long because their presence is controversial both within the
civil service and politically.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of governiment or implementing agency:
The economy was not strong during the period when the Project was executed. This
was partly because of the weather, ethnic clashes and other political or election-
related disturbances, and related downturns in the tourist industry. But one could
argue that, with the exception of the weather, there were no factors outside of
Government's control that limited significantly the implementation and outcome of
the Project. The Project was planned on a consultative, participatory basis and was
linked to other Bank, IMF arid donor-supported elements of public sector reform.
Actions that Government took in early years of the Project, such as the increases in
the number and pay of the Teachers' Service were, however, outside the control of
DPM, the implementing agency for the Project. Furthermore, DPM, who held a kind
of weak, primus inter pares status amongst other ministries and agencies, was not
assigned clearly the managerial authority to administer across government the



15
decision-making, monitoring, control, financial and procurement processes that were
essential to executing the Project effectively and on schedule.
5.2 Factors generally subject to governiment control:
Factors that contributed to the Project's poor performance in the early years are a
reflection of the above.  From  1995 to 1998 there was little indication of
Government's commitment to consistent, steady reform processes, and the slow rate
of implementation of the Project reflected this.  Furthermore, the DPM, as
implementing agency, did not have the authority or the means required to manage, for
example, the public procurement processes that contributed to the delayed
implementation of most of the Project's activities. It is not clear that there was a
culture or a discipline at this juncture in the Kenyan public service that provides
comfortably for an organisation, such as DPM, to assume the lead, managerial role for
implementing activities that require funds and activities to be managed, and contracts
to be let by other ministries or agencies of government.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Apart from the points made above, DPM demonstrated that it could develop and
maintain good financial management, accounting and record-keeping systems for the
Project. Audited financial statements were often submitted after their due dates, but
they were all unqualified, a favourable reflection of the quality of the systems
maintained by DPM.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The original Bank credit for the Project was US $25.35 million to be disbursed over
3.1 years. The Project's duration was extended to 5.3 years and, notwithstanding the
addition of four more components, only spent US $19.12 million, or three-quarters of
the funds available. Most of the shortfall is in the area of consulting services. The
under-expenditure can be attributed mainly to the lack of commitment to proceed with
reform in the early years of the Project, and to long delays in payment-processing
time and to the slow public procurement process over the life of the Project.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the different activities supported by the Project varies and is
dependent on the sustainability of the wider programme of reforms initiated by
Government. These, in turn, are related to the political and economic context of the
present, and the future. The drought of 2000 wrought havoc on the Kenyan economy
that was already under-performing for a variety of reasons. A good deal of political
will and endurance will be necessary to follow through on the array of initiatives that
have been initiated in order to realise within the next few years a genuine
improvement in the delivery of public services to Kenyan citizens. The experience in
Kenya over the last decade does not lead one to be sanguine about the extent to which
Bank assistance can be effective in promoting reform; if one examines the



16
achievements of the constituent parts of the Project, one reaches different conclusions
for each of them:
1. Ministerial Rationalisation and Staff Right-Sizing:
The ministerial rationalisation process is close to completion at the centre, and
sustainability is likely, although there remain anomalies at the ministerial level, a
perception that "ownership" is lacking, and that the process has been externally
driven. Furthermore, with its focus on the centre, rationalisation is said to have had
little if any effect yet on the field units responsible for service delivery.
2. Compensation Reform
The objective of paying public servants salaries closer to that of the private sector will
be difficult to realise considering the poor state of the economy, and uncertainty
associated with government financial mobilisation, thus the attainment of this
objective in the near future is unlikely.
3. Improving Management Practices
This dimension of the Project requires a comprehensive approach beginning with
meritocratic staffing, up-to-date job descriptions and annual statements of objectives,
regular communication between supervisor and employee, objective means of
verifying performance, and training in the use of all the fore-going. This has occurred
only in isolated instances, although the new performance appraisal is beginning to be
used and is favourably regarded. Sustainability of accomplishments is likely but the
probability of following through and institutionalising all of these practices in the
medium term is unlikely.
4. Improving Opportunities for Staff Development
The original objectives of establishing a demand-based training programme are far
from being met and will be dependent inter alia on establishing a structure wherein
training relates both to performance criteria and to staff incentives, neither of which is
in place yet. Therefore, the probability of attaining these objectives in the medium
term is unlikely.
5. Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
The FY2000/2002 budget has been prepared according to MTEF principles and the
key senior staff across government have been trained in its application, therefore
sustainability is likely, although it should be noted that for most civil servants, the
extent to which they have been "sensitised" about MTEF is much greater than the
extent to which they have been trained to understand and apply it.
6. Strengthening Government Financial Management, Accounting and Auditing
Functions
Sustainability is likely given the reforms that have already been put in place, the work
that is underway to review the Exchequer and Audit Act and the Paymaster General



17
Act, the training that has been undertaken and the new equipment that has been
provided.
7. Legal and Judicial Reform
The work of the LSRCC has laid the foundation for profound and far-reaching reform
in the key areas of legal and judicial reform. Notwithstanding this achievement, given
the absence of effective leadership in the past to bring about legal reform on the basis
of the work of the numerous task forces that were established some seven years ago to
propose legislative reforms, the team would rate the current probability of there being
follow-through on the LSRCC recommendations as unlikely.
8. Support for Government's Change Initiative Through the Provision of
Technical Advisor Services
The Bank-and-donor-financed Change Team has some impressive accomplishments
to its credit after one year, and Government has so much riding on the follow-through
to these reforms that the team would rate sustainability as likely, at least in the short
term. In the medium term, the nature of political succession after the 2002-2004
elections may influence significantly the overall quality of technocratic leadership and
the functioning of the machinery of government.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The sustainability of public sector reform is based on the understanding that public
sector reform and institution-building may take decades of concerted effort, but that
strategically targeted, sequenced interventions can facilitate and accelerate the reform
process. Although Government has not achieved all the objectives set out under the
current Project, it has made progress on many of them, and the pace of
implementation of public sector reform has picked up substantially since 1998. The
Kenyan civil servants who have been involved closely with many elements of reform
related to the Project have been quite constant over the past decade, and it can be
readily observed that many of them have experienced a great deal of personal growth.
The current leadership responsible for public sector reform at the senior level of the
civil service is strong and committed apart from the legal and judicial sectors where
this is less clearly so. There has also been a fair degree of continuity on the part of the
Bank's team for this Credit. Furthermore, the Kenyan civil servants and the Bank
staff who have been most involved in the ICR are the same staff who, with few
exceptions, are preparing the successor Public Sector Reform Technical Assistance
Credit that is scheduled to run from 2001 to 2003. In addition, there has been close
consultation with the British DFID and the Swedish SIDA who co-financed the
current Project. They, along with the EU, will support interventions closely linked to
the new Project. There has thus been a high degree of continuity, an almost seamless
transition between the two projects on the part of all concerned, and it is intended that
the lessons learnt from the current Project will be reflected clearly in the design and
implementation of the successor one.



18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Identification: The Bank's performance was satisfactory. The Project responded
clearly to "The Kenya Civil Service Reform Programme and Action Plan" and was
complementary to the support provided by the IMF's ESAF and Bank's SAC
Appraisal: The Bank's performance was unsatisfactory on several fronts. First, the
Bank did not assess well the weakness of Government's commitment to public sector
reform, and the related political consequences of implementing major civil service
retrenchment in the run-up to an election. Second, not withstanding its relationship to
the ESAF and the SAC, the Project's scope was limited to the civil service, thus it was
not anchored in a coherent strategy for reforming the whole of government. As a
consequence, the attainment of its objectives was compromised by the expansion and
pay increases awarded to the Teachers' Service. Third, the institutional arrangements
that were put in place did not provide for a management structure with the authority,
the means or the capacity to implement the Project in concert with other organs of
government. Fourth, it was probably unrealistic to contemplate the implementation of
such an ambitious project with several sensitive elements in just a three-year period.
7.2 Supervision.
The Bank's performance was satisfactory but inconsistent.  A weakness during
supervision was the assignment by the Bank of three different task team leaders
(TTL) to the Proiect over five years, although this was mitigated by the second two
TTLs' being assigned to the Nairobi Country Office where they were very close to
and actively associated with the Project. This was particularly evident in the latter
years of the Project when the Bank's effective relations with Government facilitated
the catalytic performance of the elite "Change Team" that led public sector reform
from mid-1999 onwards.
The Bank's multi-disciplinary supervision missions prepared a series of insightful and
informative back-to-office reports and aides memoire over the life of the Project, and
the Project Status Reports (PSR) began reporting unsatisfactory progress towards
reaching the development objective a little more than two years after the Project
became effective, reflecting a comprehensive mid-term review that was conducted in
late 1996. A blue-ribbon Bank mission in 1998 discerned clearly the principal
problems that led to the significant and relevant re-orientation of the Project in 1999,
after which the Project began to make more progress towards meeting its objectives.
One should note though, that from July 1997 to project completion, the PSRs rate the
Project as unsatisfactory with respect to its meeting its development objective. Given
these ratings, the warnings in the MTR, and the lag until there was a re-orientation,
one could query whether the Bank became pro-active with corrective measures as
early as it should have.



19
In terms of administrative performance, some of the no-objections that the Bank
issued, related to the provision of technical assistance for the Change Team, did not
follow the Bank's own procedures. In addition, the Bank's response-time for issuing
no-objections was not always exemplary, although some of the apparent delays are
attributable to diligent examination and discussion of the requests. On average, it
took 27 days to issue each of the 163 no-objections that were authorised for the
project. Ninety of them were approved in five days or less, but thirty-two took more
than one month, seventeen took more than 100 days, and three of them took more
than 200 days. This must have contributed to the slow pace of implementation of the
project.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was unsatisfactory but mixed, as noted above. The
Bank did help Government develop a project that responded to high priorities for
reform; it supervised the Project quite well and re-oriented it twice when it was clear
that this was necessary. Kenya's track-record in achieving economic and institutional
reform over 1994-1995 was quite good and it was believed that Government had
established the basis for accelerated growth. However, the Bank and its donor
colleagues had good knowledge from the run-up to the 1992 elections of the staying
power of Government's commitment to reform in pre-election circumstances. The
Bank should accordingly have been more thorough in its analysis of the institutional
milieu in which the Project was to have been implemented. In the same vein, it
should have been more thorough in its assessment of the viability of the institutional
arrangements that were proposed for the Project. The Bank's slowness in issuing no
objections during implementation abetted Government's extremely slow public
procurement processes.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower participated actively, knowledgeably and effectively in the preparation
of the Project from 1992 and onwards, an admittedly difficult time for Kenya. It
would appear however that the Project's protagonists, who were mainly in the DPM,
had not acquired all the inter-ministerial support they required to carry out the Project
or to implement the reforms the Project represented:
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government, initially, made rapid progress in implementing the VERS, initiating
plans for rationalising six ministries, and designing the IPPD. By the time of the mid-
term review however, it was apparent that the civil service reform programme was not
having any positive effects on performance, efficiency or service delivery. The cost
containment measures were frustrated by increasing the pay and number of teachers,
there was little if any improvement in the PE:OM ratio, the rationalisation process
was stalled, there were implementation problems with the IPPD, and it is unlikely that
there was any discernible improvement in the efficiency of the management of public
resources. Following the 1998 re-orientation of.the Project, Government did manage



20
to make significant progress with respect to the identification of core functions,
ministerial rationalisation, initiating the implementation of the MTEF, articulating a
Legal Sector Reform Programme, and setting the stage for a next, more coherent
phase of public sector reform.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Although the Directorate of Personnel Management (DPM) was the legally designated
implementing agency for the Project, it did not appear to have the necessary
institutional remit within government to assume the responsibility and to be held
accountable for the Project's completing its planned objectives on time and within
budget. The Civil Service Reform Secretariat (CSRS), a unit within DPM, executed
the VERS well although it was perceived elsewhere in government to be an enclaved
unit with special privileges. This may have affected its ability to collaborate with
other elements of the civil service and deliver on other elements of the reform agenda.
Project management reporting was not well executed. The DPM did not prepare
regularly comprehensive management reports that set out progress against planned
objectives, issues, plans for the next reporting period and so on.
DPM performed well in the area of project financial management, including audits
although the latter were often late, reflecting the inadequacy of management of the
audit function in the Central Government. The procurement process was not managed
well and this was a major factor limiting the pace of execution and the ultimate
success of the Project.  This was not entirely DPM's fault; the nature of the
procurement system government wide is a factor that limits all Bank-funded activities
in Kenya. DPM did not, however, assign procurement expertise on a high-priority
basis to pursue the procurement problems that were impeding the progress of the
Project.
The administration of disbursements for the Project was very poor. As at March 31,
2000 the actual average payment processing days for the Project stood at 94 days
compared to 69 days for the entire Kenya Portfolio.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Overall Borrower performance is unsatisfactory (mixed).
8. Lessons Learned
Numerous lessons could be drawn from the experience gained from this project but
five stand out and the first four are closely linked:2 i) the importance of Government
commitment and leadership to see such projects through to a successful completion,
ii) the importance of the institutional arrangements for managing the reform process,
of which the Project is but a part, iii) the desireability of a comprehensive policy
design that embraces all the elements or functions of government that are germane to
2 These lessons, and many others, are captured in Annex I of the attached Aide Memoire, "Candid
Comments from Kenyan Interviewees."



21
the attainment of the key objectives, and iv) proper sequencing to ensure that reform
is planned and implemented in a logical order with as little counter-productive activity
as possible. The fifth is the importance of ensuring the adequacy of the procurement
structure and practices that are an essential pre-requisite to timely and effective
project execution. The rest of this section will elaborate on these five points.
Government commitment during project (lesign and inmlementation is essential. Its
importance cannot be overstated, and commitment should be manifest in several
respects because technical "fixes" or a "black-box" approach can fizzle in the absence
of political support. Some Government policies, i.e., increasing the size of the
Teachers' Service and awarding a high pay rise to teachers, contradicted the essential,
technical, purpose of the Project - to achieve cost containment through the reduction
of the government wage bill in order to facilitate the cost-effective delivery of
services to the public. The Project's contribution in this respect was thus nullified. It
should be evident early on, who, at the political level, are the champions responsible
for projects with such wide-ranging political ramifications.  Then the overall
managerial responsibility for the Project should be assigned to someone who clearly
has the political backing, the authority, the stature and the means to carry it out.
Furthermore, one must ensure that the key institutional players are involved in and
committed to the process from the beginning (the Presidency including the
Directorate of Personnel Management (DPM) and the Civil Service Reform
Secretariat (CSRS), the Ministry of Finance and others). Given the wide-ranging
scope and the consequences of a project such as this, it should be entrusted only to the
most senior and competent of managers, within the right institutional setting, and with
the authority and influence to see it through. Vested interests should be excluded
from the design and implementation of reform, i.e., people are unlikely of their own
volition to reform themselves out of a job.
Appropriate institutional arrangements are crucial for managing the reform
process. Experience in Kenya and internationally demonstrate the crucial importance
of the institutional arrangements for managing the reform process. "Reform does not
happen on its own. It requires drive from individual champions, supported by
appropriate co-ordinating arrangements that broaden the base of reform by involving
the key players. The quality of the arrangements has important consequences at every
stage of the reform process: design and adoption, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation. It also influences significantly both the continued ownership of, and
commitment to, reform.  Reform  activities should be mainstreamed from  the
beginning--involving all the players from the highest political level, through senior
public service management, to the professional and technical levels."3 In Kenya, it is
easy to fall into a technocratic trap; "the key economic reformers have been confined
largely to the Finance and Planning Ministries and the Central Bank of Kenya. It is
much easier for this group to handle reforms in their own areas--fiscal and monetary
policy, financial sector management, public debt, price controls, exchange and trade
policies--than it is to deal with structural issues or institutional capacity-building
across government. For success in these areas, they require sustained support from
counterparts in other Ministries and Departments. And this support did not develop as
hoped for,...the political class within government appears to have preferred guarding
3 World Bank Aide Memoire for the October 1998 supervision nission for the Project.



22
its options and not lining up squarely behind the reforms. One reason may be the
inadequate consultation process; another may be the fact that sector Ministers and
their staff seldom see the direct benefits of donor support in the form of additional
resources for their own Ministries. ...Other times the lenders or donors may have
aligned themselves with well-intentioned technocrats who wished to achieve the
results contracted for but lacked the political support to do so. It is our view,
therefore, that donor aid can have an influence on the form of agreement reached, and
on the agreed timetable for implementation, but whether implementation is carried out
depends in the end much more on domestic political and economic factors than on
donor money."4
The Bank's supervision mission in October 1998 understood well these dynamics in
Kenya and, drawing upon international best practice, proposed the establishment of a
four-tier institutional arrangement for the management of public sector reform in
Kenya:
1 A Cabinet Committee on Public Sector Reform to provide strategic leadership and
direction, to make recommendations on the key reform measures across the entire
public sector to the full Cabinet, and to monitor progress with reform
implementation (it was understood that such systematic and continuous
involvement of a significant number of Cabinet Ministers with the main thrust of
reform, including decisions on rewards and sanctions for good and bad
performance, would send a powerful message of strong government ownership
and commitment).5
2. A National Steering Committee on PSR: This Committee already exists; it is at
the permanent secretary level and is chaired by the Secretary to the Cabinet and
Head of the Public Service. It has hitherto focused almost exclusively on civil
service reform. Its remit should be expanded to cover other PSR programmes that
would not report directly to the Cabinet Committee.
3. Reform Secretariats: Each distinct reform programme, such as MTEF, should have
an inter-ministerial secretariat to provide technical direction and guidance, and
ensure effective co-ordination of reform efforts.
4. Reform Implementation Committees or Performance Improvement Teams: Should
be established at the levels of ministries, departments, provinces and districts with
functions and composition determined in accordance with the current medium-
term strategy.
If such a structure had been in place and working in the early 1990s, with clearly
demarcated responsibilities and accountabilities, and with a transparent and effective
means of monitoring and reporting results to the public, it might well have assured a
4F.S. O'Brien and T.C.I. Ryan, Aid and Reform in Africa: Kenya Case Study, August 27, 1999
5In Kenya, there exists a Cabinet Committee entitled the "Economic Consultative Forum," chaired by
his Excellency the President. Perhaps it could play the suggested role although, during the life of the
Project, it did not.



23
more coherent and effective implementation of public sector reforms over the last
decade.
The importance of a coherent policy design should be underscored. The Civil
Service Reform Programme (1993/97) (CSRP) was initially implemented as a stand-
alone programme with weak links to longer-term expenditure planning. Given that
containing growth of the wage bill was critical for consolidating fiscal and financial
stability as well as improving the management of public resources and redirecting
support to non-wage activities in the social sectors, the design of the reforms could
have been more effective in capturing the main factors affecting the government wage
bill. For example, the staff reduction and pay reform content of the civil service
reform programme excluded teachers who are under the personnel policies of the
Teachers' Service Commission. Thus, while Civil Service numbers were being
reduced, the numbers of teachers being hired, and their pay, were being increased.
Civil service numbers fell by 21.4 per cent whilst the Teachers' Service numbers rose
by 21.8 per cent between 1992/93 and 1997/98. Thus the gains from reducing the
size of the civil service were offset by increases in the wage bill for the teachers. A
coherent (and politically supported) personnel and pay policy covering all public
sector employees would have avoided this conflict.
Proper sequencing is essential. The Project was prepared in support of the overall,
1992 CSRP and Action Plan, the implementation of which had already begun when
the Project became effective. Under the CSRP's Voluntary Early Retirement Scheme
(VERS) some 30,000 staff in the lower grades exited the Service and about 18,000
from the same grades had left through natural attrition by 1996. The VERS was
carried out rather well from an administrative point of view, but its voluntary nature
led to retrenchment depriving some ministries of critical skills or services. For
example, the Ministry of Health has had to re-employ some 3000 personnel. Optimal
staffing levels were not determined in advance nor were critical skills identified, and
the decision was taken not to "ring-fence" critical personnel.
Then the rationalisation programme initially progressed very slowly for want of
incentives. There was reluctance on the part of, especially, the technically oriented
ministries, i.e., Health, which had already embarked on their own rationalisation
projects before the implementation of CSRP, to abandon their pre-CSR programmes
in which they had invested heavily. Indeed, the process appears to have been started
without proper planning, which may explain in part why reorganisation of the
ministries on the basis of which functions they would retain, and identifying those to
be privatised and commercialised, came much later. Ministerial rationalisation was
linked to the assumption that the civil service was overstaffed and therefore, one of
the targets of rationalisation was retrenchment of staff This was done, however,
without considering the peculiarities of individual ministries, or establishing staffing
norms. Furthermore, the rationalisation of individual ministries was started before
they had established their core functions. This explains in part some of the difficulties
experienced with rationalisation; the core functions of government should ideally
have been identified first.
In 1999, Government, on the basis of eight newly defined core functions, reduced the
number of ministries from 27 to 15. This reduction disrupted the rationalisation



24
process that had already begun in some ministries. During the merger of ministries,
departments at different stages of rationalisation found themselves in the same
Ministry. The re-grouping made some ministries too amorphous to be effectively
managed.
Ideally, if the urgency of containing growth in the wage bill had not been so
overwhelming, the reform sequence ought to have been: the identification of core
functions of government, ministerial rationalisation based upon functional analysis,
determination of optimal staffing norms and numbers, and then well-administered,
targeted retrenchment.
Public procurement practices are essential to projects being executed on schedule.
The execution of the Project was to be carried out through the Department of
Personnel Management (DPM) in the Office of the President in collaboration with
several other ministries and departments.  The institutional arrangements for
procurement were not set out in the Development Credit Agreement; initially they
were centralised within DPM and later they were decentralised. In the absence of a
formal structure agreed to by all participants at the beginning, neither approach
worked very well. One could not possibly schedule project activities with any degree
of reliability under such circumstances, and the management of procurement was
responsible for several lengthy delays in project implementation. One should ensure
then, when several Government ministries or departments are engaged in project
implementation, that the institutional arrangements for the management of the Project
set out an effective structure and processes for the procurement function.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Govemment of Kenya including the Chief Secretary, the Permanent Secretaries
of the Directorate of Personnel Management and of the Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning, and numerous other officials from central ministries and the
provincial administration were consulted at length in the preparation of this ICR.
They reviewed and contributed to the final version of the aide memoire for the ICR
mission, and the comments of the Directorate of Personnel Management have been
incorporated into the ICR report itself
(b) Cofinanciers:
The British Department for International Development (DFID) and the Swedish
International Development Agency (SIDA) and the Dutch Development Agency were
the co-financiers for the Project. The ICR mission called on all three agencies.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.



25
10. Additional Information
(a) Aide memoire
KENYA
AIDE MEMOIRE:
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
PROJECT (CREDIT 2671-KE)
June-July 2000
Introduction
1.   A World Bank Public Sector Reform (PSR) Mission visited Kenya from 18
June to 5 July 2000 to commence the preparation of an Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) for the Institutional Development and Civil Service Reform Project that
closed at the end of June 2000.  The Mission comprised Mr. Jack Titsworth
(Consultant) as Mission Leader, from headquarters, and Messrs/Mesdames Kirogo
Mwangi (Consultant), John Nyaga (Financial Management Specialist), John Ogallo
(Financial Management Specialist), Lucas Ojiambo (Economist), Margaret Olale
(Disbursement Analyst), Prof Walter Oyugi (Consultant), and Dahir Warsame
(Procurement Specialist) from the Regional Office of the World Bank in Nairobi. Mr.
Said Al Habsy (Senior Legal Counsel) in Washington is also a member of the ICR
Team. The Mission collaborated closely with Mr. Harold Wackman (Country
Director) and Mr. Oladipupo Adamolekun (Principal Public Sector Management
Specialist and Task Team Leader for the Project). Team members met many
Government officials in the Civil Service Reform Secretariat, the Directorate of
Personnel Management, the Ministry of Finance, several line ministries, some
Provincial and District Administrators, and representatives of the Department for
International Development (DfID) (UK) and the Swedish International Development
Agency (SIDA).
Purpose of Implementation Completion Reports
2.    ICRs are an integral and required part of the Bank's systems of knowledge
management, transparency and accountability. They aim to improve the quality and
effectiveness of Bank loans and enhance borrower' ability to design, implement and
operate projects through a process of feedback, self-evaluation, learning on the part of
the Bank and its borrowers, maintenance of the record of implementation experience
and accomplishment for an assessment of development impact, and to benefit from
lessons learned in financial management.



26
Original Objectives of the Project
3.    The project's key objectives as framed in 1994 by Government and the Bank
were as follows:
(a) to achieve an overall rationalisation of staffing and improved establishment
control leading to better resource allocation, forward planning, productivity
improvement and cost-effective delivery of services;
(b) to introduce wide-ranging compensation reforms resulting in a simplified and
more transparent grading structure, better aligned to the external markets, and
with better pay relativities;
(c) to introduce better personnel management practices to obtain better
performance from existing staff and attract high quality recruits into the
service;
(d) to improve opportunities for staff development through better planning and
delivery of training by the Kenya Institute of Administration (KIA) and other
similar bodies; and
(e) to commence the rationalisation of five target Ministries to achieve
quantifiable improvements in service delivery to Kenya's citizens (Ministries
of: Agriculture and Rural Development; Health; Finance and Planning; Land
Reclamation, Regional and Water Development; and, Roads and Public
Works).
Revised Objectives of the Project
4.    The first phase of the project was driven largely by the fiscal need to reduce
the size of the civil service, thus it was not anchored in a coherent strategy for
reforming the role of the government. Consequently many of the project's earlier
activities did not contribute significantly to improving public sector performance. As
of 1999 the objectives of the project had been revised twice to help Government
redefine its core functions and embark upon a more comprehensive programme of
public sector reform that embraced public expenditure management, ministerial
rationalisation, the formulation and implementation of the economic recovery
programme and several other areas that are set out below.
Revised Objectives as per the October 1998 Re-orientation
(a) Rationalisation of staffing and improved staffing control;
(b) Introducing compensation reform;
(c) Improving personnel management practices;
(d) Improving opportunities for staff development;
(e) Ministerial rationalisation;
(f) Development and Implementation of a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework;
(g) Strengthening Government Finance and Accounting Functions; and
(h) Legal and Judicial Reform.
Revised Objective as per the September 1999 Re-orientation
(a) Support for Government's change initiative through the provision of technical
advisory services.



27
Implementation Experience
5.    The Project was approved with a budget of $25.35 million on November 28,
1994 and the credit became effective on April 18, 1995. The Project was initially
scheduled to be completed by April 30, 1998 and the closing date was set at
November 30, 1998. A project implementation period of about three years was
assumed. The Project was implemented much more slowly than planned, will
disburse only about 75 per cent of the funds available, and its original design was
overtaken by events. The Project was thus re-oriented twice. The Closing Date of the
Credit was extended initially to October 31, 1999 and subsequently to June 30, 2000.
6.    Implementation experience varied over the life of the Project. The CSRP was
initially implemented as a stand-alone programme with weak links to longer-term
expenditure planning and there is a perception, in fact, that interest in the reform
programme was linked to the then-expected Structural Adjustment Credit that became
operational in 1996.  Although the initial civil service retrenchment exercise
proceeded quickly, its cost containment objectives were quickly contradicted and
frustrated by the hiring of large numbers of teachers; the objective of increasing the
Operations and Maintenance (O&M) portion of the budget and hence allocating more
resources to service delivery was not attained during the life of the project; there is a
perception that a large proportion of the retrenchees have not fared well, and that
some of the lessons learned during the Voluntary Early Retirement Scheme (VERS)
may not be applied during the recently initiated Compulsory Early Retirement
Scheme (CERS); ministerial rationalisation, an inherently political process, foundered
during the first phase of the Civil Service Reform Project (CSRP I) for lack of
political support, but was implemented during the latter years of the Project under
CSRP II; in particular, the core functions of government have been determined and
ministerial rationalisation, based upon them, is well advanced; all ministries and
departments have completed their functional reviews and made recommendations that
relate to the core functions; the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) was established and
is fully operational. Considerable progress was made early on with the Integrated
Personnel and Pay Database System (IPPD) and establishment control, but
implementation was interrupted when it became evident that the IPPD should be
integrated with the Government Computer Services (GCS) system; personnel and
payroll data were "cleansed" in 1997/98. Compensation Reform was initiated through
the Salary Reform Commission (Munene Commission) and the Commission to
Harmonise Terms and Conditions in the Public Service (Kipkulei Commission)
recently completed its work.  In the area of Personnel Management and Staff
Development, the functional reviews of ministries have been completed and
ministerial reform is on-going; several schemes of service have been revised, and
revised Terms and Conditions of Service have been issued; the legal status of the KIA
was revised to permit it widen its course portfolio, and numerous civil servants have
received public sector reform training locally and abroad; a performance-based
personnel appraisal system that has been initiated on a limited scale is favourably
regarded by staff; the legal review to harmonise health and health-related acts is
incomplete; the legal review to harmonise land laws is under way; the Medium Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF) is in the process of becoming well-established at the
centre of government and with external stakeholders, although the Provincial
Administration has only been involved on the periphery of this process; Government



28
has not disposed of the majority of its housing stock, but it has adopted a new housing
policy; pension information has been computerised, and a cleansing of the pension
payroll has saved Government KSh 52.3 million; the records of civil servants under
the jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission (PSC) have been computerised but
land records have not; progress has been made on some elements of financial
management and accounting systems reform and a good deal of related training has
been accomplished; little if any progress has been achieved to improve the delivery of
services to the public but a number of key measures are underway; the Legal Sector
Reform Programme has been prepared; and a pilot judicial service-delivery survey
has been completed.
7.    The Project's Financial Management and Accounting systems functioned well-
-all the project financial statements have had unqualified audits (although the audit
process itself was frequently behind schedule). Payment-processing and disbursement
against invoices were slow, averaging 94 days, and some suppliers (not confirmed)
have said that payment against invoices has to go through some 40 steps.
Government's procurement processes frequently let the Project down. Most Project
activities experienced procurement delays (of up to a year) and some were not
achieved, i.e., computerisation of land records, because of lethargic procurement.
One can assume that these delays are responsible in part for the Project's having
disbursed only 72 per cent of the funds available for procurement, notwithstanding
that the Closing Date of the Credit was extended by more than two years.
8.    The Project has lacked completely, from its commencement to the present, a
comprehensive project reporting system that would enable one to monitor
systematically the progress achieved against each of its approved activities against an
agreed calendar, and to relate monies spent, first to contracts issued, and thence to
goods or services provided and the results attained from them.
Progress Toward Achievement of Development Objective
Ministerial Rationalisation and Staff Right-Sizinig:
9.    The ministerial rationalisation exercise was intended to identify inter- and
intra-ministerial relationships, establish the core functions of a given ministry,
strengthen organisational structures and processes necessary in the discharge of the
identified core functions of the ministries, and strengthen deconcentration of functions
to field units. The ultimate objective was to make service delivery more efficient and
effective. The rationalisation of individual ministries was started, however, before
they had established their core functions. This explains in part some of the difficulties
experienced with rationalisation; the core functions of government should ideally
have been identified first. An initial exercise selected eight such functions and, in
February 2000, a more refined list of core functions was identified, recognising
Cabinet's prerogative to decide on the core functions of government.
10.   In 1999, the government, on the basis of the core functions, reduced the
number of ministries from 27 to 15. This reduction disrupted the rationalisation
process that had already begun in some ministries. During the merger of ministries,
departments at different stages of rationalisation found themselves in the same



29
Ministry. The re-grouping made some ministries too amorphous to be effectively
managed.
11.   Initially, only six ministries had been targeted for rationalisation but all were
brought on board during 1999/2000. The programme initially progressed very slowly
for want of incentives.  There was the reluctance on the part of especially the
technically oriented ministries, i.e., Health, which had already embarked on their own
rationalisation projects before the implementation of CSRP, to abandon their pre-CSR
programmes in which they had heavily invested. In some ministries, indifferent
senior officers were asked to co-ordinate the rationalisation project. In other cases,
officers who had conflicts-of-interest, because their careers could be adversely
affected, became involved in ministerial rationalisation and with counter-productive
results. Indeed, the process appears to have been started without proper planning,
which may explain in part why reorganisation of the ministries on the basis of which
functions they would retain, and identifying those to be privatised and
commercialised, came much later. Ministerial rationalisation was linked to the
assumption that the civil service was overstaffed and therefore, one of the targets of
rationalisation was retrenchment of staff.  This was done, however, without
considering the peculiarities of individual ministries, or establishing staffing norms.
12.   The subsequent phase in the ministerial rationalisation process, based upon
prepared guidelines, was participatory, involving all Permanent Secretaries. It has
been completed and further work is in progress. The current retrenchment plan flows
from this exercise. In the course of this phase, some ministries identified functions to
be privatised and/or commercialised. In addition, the Auditor-General's office has
been given full autonomy to hire professional retirees on a contractual basis. A large
measure of autonomy has also been extended to the Public Service Commission.
Integrated Personnel and Payroll Database System
13.   One of the project's activities under rationalisation of the ministries is the
development of the IPPD system for the improvement of establishment control. It
was one of the first activities to be implemented because it was linked to the then
ongoing Voluntary Early Retirement Scheme (VERS). IPPD was introduced in 1995
with sensitisation meetings followed by the establishment of an IPPD task force in
1996. System design and development commenced with the Ministry of Finance &
Planning and continued with installation in pilot ministries. Training was conducted
for officers in the ministries.
14.   The IPPD system has now been put in place at the headquarters of all
ministries but the planned establishment of the Wide Area Network (WAN) system
has been delayed due to the need to rationalise it in relation to the Central Computer
system at the Treasury. Several ministries indicate that use of the system has not yet
been fully internalised. So far, the system, being dependent on the few staff that have
been trained in its operation, is limited to personnel data. At the provincial and
district levels personnel departments still rely on the old (file based) data storage and
retrieval system. Whereas training of district staff has taken place, procurement of
hardware is behind schedule. In this regard, a network system that links ministries not
only to the DPM but also to personnel units in the field is a crucial need. In most



30
cases where it has become operational, IPPD has helped in establishing a more
reliable database on personnel matters and in preparing budgets. Pending the full
implementation of the IPPD system, payroll audit teams have been established and
training has been provided for salaries personnel on better complement control and
payroll management systems.
Lessons Learned
* Ministerial rationalisation ideally should have covered all ministries from the
beginning to address future prospects of mergers/ sub-divisions of ministries;
* The rationalisation that has taken place, basically at the centre, has not yet realised
improvements to service delivery in the field;
* A plan of action should always be produced with the participation of all
stakeholders to ensure acceptance of the end product.  Lack of proper
consultations may be responsible for lack of support in some ministries; and
* IPPD's operation is constrained by limited computer skills, especially among
senior staff.
Voluntary Early Retirement Scheme
15.   VERS, the first activity to be implemented under the CSRP, was financed by a
number of donors. By the end of phase one, some 42,132 employees in grades A-G
had been retrenched on the assumption that the civil service was over staffed, with
personnel emoluments alone claiming more than 90 per cent of the recurrent budget in
some ministries. Retrenchment was linked to the reduction of the wage bill in favour
of Operations and Maintenance (O & M). However, the little savings realised were
offset by the continued hiring of personnel in the security, health and teachers
services, including the huge pay rise awarded to the latter. Statutory obligations like
debt servicing also constrained improvements to the Pay and Emoluments (PE) to 0
& M ratio.
16.   Some personnel officers report that hundreds of people under their jurisdiction
who had applied to benefit from VERS are still waiting (such figures for the Civil
Service in general were not available). No time limit, based on date of application,
was given for the grant of retirement. They remark that some potential beneficiaries
have now reached the retirement age and cannot therefore be considered under the
scheme; while some early retirees took a very long time to be paid.
17.   A number of areas'provide suggestions for strengthening planning:
(a) Insufficient precaution was taken to ensure that retrenchment did not
deprive ministries of critical skills or services. For example, the Ministry
of Health has had to re-employ some 3000 personnel in the last six years.
Optimum staffing levels were neither determined nor critical skills
identified and pertinent personnel "ring fenced." This would have required
instant compensation for the remaining staff through an improved
remuneration structure. Yet compensation was not immediately linked to
the programme.



31
(b) Implementation was hasty, sensitisation took only two or so weeks and
was not well scheduled. The focus of the sensitisation seminars was
entrepreneurship training in either Kiswahili or English, such that some
potential retirees experienced a language handicap.
(c) Sensitisation appeared to take the form of mobilisation for retirement, as
an end in itself
(d) Savings from retrenchment were not ploughed back into the affected units
to improve their expenditure on 0 & M. The promised pay improvement
was not implemented throughout the first phase of the project.  Staff
demoralisation has been aggravated by the abrupt announcement of the
impending compulsory retrenchment scheme.
Lessons Learned
(a)  The social effects of VERS were never addressed; as a result there have
reportedly been cases of suicide (unconfirmed) after retirees squandered
their money, as well as family disintegration and impoverishment as many
retirees have joined the ranks of non-income earners.
(b)  Targeting only the civil service and not other public organisations that
depend on the Exchequer distorted the impact of cost reduction accruing
from VERS.
(c)  VERS was limited almost exclusively to junior staff, limiting significantly
its savings to P.E.
(d)  The assumption that most civil servants can be turned into entrepreneurs has
proved erroneous.
18.   Arising from the above, it may be necessary to consider the following
measures before the next retrenchment scheme is implemented:
(i)  Avoid lump sum payment in preference for staggered installment payments.
(ii)  First ensure the optimum staff establishment and "ring fence" personnel with
critical skills in good time.
(iii) Timing of the lay-off should take into account personal and family profiles,
i.e., some targeted retirees may have school-going children in their work
areas.
(iv) The sense of panic that is characteristic of the impending retrenchment
should be avoided. Employees are not being given enough time to prepare -
individuals had not been informed as at the end of June 2000 that they would
be off-loaded starting July 2000.



32
(i)  The programme should be well sequenced since very senior officers are
targeted to leave and the government will require these same officers to help
identify the junior officers to be retrenched.
Compensation Reforms:
19.   This activity involves improvement of pay packages and the grading structure
to enable the civil service to recruit, retrain and motivate competent employees, the
assumption being that retrerrchment would be accompanied by the restructuring of the
compensation system. A commission has submitted its report and a cabinet paper has
been prepared on this matter; it recommends harmonisation of the structures of pay
and benefits in the public sector.
20.   A Permanent Civil Service Remuneration Board has been established to
review civil service pay and benefits on a regular basis. Restructuring of grades has
also been done and ministries have already submitted their reactions. A study on
housing and transport policy has also been conducted and a final report is apparently
ready.
21.   Some modest improvements have been recorded including provision of
outpatient medical allowance, a 20 per cent increase in house allowance in 1995 and a
number of upward salary revisions. But the goal of closing the civil service - private
sector gap by at least 40 per cent over the next 3 years commencing with the
1999/2000 financial year is monumental given the results of a comparative study
conducted in 1996 which revealed that, on average, private sector pay was 450 per
cent and 300 per cent higher for professional and non-professional jobs respectively
than in civil service.
Personnel Management:
22.   This activity was meant to improve the personnel management functions, viz.;
recruitment, induction, career planning and progression, and capacity building. The
project was also concerned with rationalisation of institutions involved in such
personnel management organisations as the Public Service Commission.  Some
reorganisation has been realised in the line ministries, and existing personnel units are
being modernised through computerisation.  A Payroll Audit Team  has been
established at DPM  to monitor payment of salaries.  A Task Force on the
Management of Relevant Budget has been established.   Human Resource
Development officers have been posted to ministries to put in place programmes
based on needs assessment. Training has also been conducted for 12 ministries on
performance management. A performance appraisal instrument for senior officers in
job Groups J and above has been introduced. Some outstanding matters include
implementation of a fast track promotion scheme for "high flyers" and introduction of
individual performance contracts for senior managers. Inventories are being carried
out in ministries/departments and a Code of Conduct for public servants, enshrined in
a parliamentary bill, has been gazetted.



33
Staff development:
23.   One of the aims of the project is to improve the quality of services delivered
through reform of the personnel management system, including strengthening the
training capacity of the Kenya Institute of Administration (KIA), the Government
Training Institutes (GTI) at Mombasa and Embu, and other government training
institutions. Training will thereafter be linked to needs assessment. Three
developments have since taken place: the creation of Human Development units in the
line ministries to which training responsibilities have been decentralised from the
DPM; the development of an overall public sector policy on training and capacity
building; and the refurbishing of KIA as a major training facility for middle and
senior public sector staff. Trainee accommodation and institutional staff for KIA
have been significantly increased.
24.   Legally semi-autonomous, KIA continues to operate under the aegis of the
DPM with government employees as staff and DPM budgetary supervision.
However, grants specifically meant for the institution are now administered directly
by the Institute. KIA involvement in hosting workshops and sensitisation seminars
related to the activities of CSRP has increased. But training programmes under the
CSRP have also been conducted both locally and abroad for the staff in the Ministries
of Lands, Finance and others.
Lessons Learned
(a) Many projects were introduced before staff training, contributing to delayed
implementation;
(b) In the government personnel management system in general, training is not
demand driven nor is it linked sufficiently to promotion.
(c) There is a need to develop objective criteria for follow up and evaluation of
the impact of training.
Medium Term Expenditure Framework
Introduction
25.   The Kenya Public Expenditure Review of 1997 identified key weaknesses that
made the Government of Kenya (GOK) budget a "wish list" of needs compiled
without taking account of available resources. In light of these weaknesses the GOK-
sponsored "Mbagathi" Economic Forum in May 1998 recommended adoption of a
MTEF, among other public sector reforms, to improve public sector performance and
restore fiscal health. In September 1998, Treasury initiated its own MTEF process
and, the Public Expenditure Review (PER) Secretariat began developing a three-year
fiscal expenditure framework with a statement of fiscal objectives and a set of
integrated medium term macroeconomic and fiscal targets and projections.
Government then requested, and the Bank agreed, to amend the CSRP in October
1998 to enable some funds to be devoted to MTEF preparation and implementation.
26.   Several administrative factors subsequently undermined Government's efforts;
neither Government's expected definition of its core functions nor ministerial



34
rationalisation had been effected when MTEF was initiated, so line ministries found it
difficult to proceed with the policy and expenditure privatisation directed by Treasury.
Frequent changes of the top Treasury officials exacerbated the situation, and the
donor community, including the Bank, did not help. Notwithstanding Government's
tight financial situation, and not understanding the rigour imposed by MTEF's
objectives, several donor and Bank representatives.tried to "sell" projects that did not
accord with the MTEF.
27.  In October 1999, Government's new "change team" decided to revive the
MTEF preparation for the next fiscal year (FY2000/01) and requested Bank
assistance. The Bank agreed and supported a major MTEF workshop for senior
government personnel with resource persons from the Bank's PRMS and three MTEF
implementing countries: Uganda, Ghana and Tanzania. Soon after the workshop,
GOK established its institutional arrangement for carrying out the MTEF preparation
process and proceeded to prepare Kenya's first MTEF budget for FY2000/01-
FY2002/03.
28.   The full impact of the MTEF remains to be seen as it only in its first year of
implementation.  Developing a better understanding of the relative factors that
contributed to the successful preparation of MTEF will be crucial for its
sustainability.
Strengthening Government Finance and Accounting Functions
29.   This sub-project, conceived in 1997, was intended to help address the main
causes of the serious systemic weaknesses evident in the government financial
management system.  A Department for International Development (DffD/UK)-
supported consulting firm worked with the Government team to identify the main
issues as well as short, medium and long term actions that could ensure that
Government finance, accounting and auditing functions were actually reformed and
made responsive to its needs. The Bank and DfID provided technical support to
review the consultant's outputs at various levels.
30.   The consultant and Government jointly produced a Comprehensive Project
Framework (CPF) that set out the overall strategy for improving the performance of
the finance and accounting functions. The World Bank was to finance the hardware,
DfID agreed to provide training, and the Swedish International Development Agency
(SIDA) undertook to provide software and training. The three donors' original
funding plan proposed to share the costs as follows: World Bank, US$2.0 Million,
DfID, US$ 1.0 million, and SIDA US$ 2.0 million. These amounts were later
reduced as follows: World Bank, US$0.60 million, DflD, US$1.0 million and SIDA,
US$2.0 million.
31.   Several initiatives were activated to implement Stage 1, preparation for the
Year 2000 transition issues and a contingency plan for managing data. Hardware
needs and specifications were prepared with DfID help to facilitate procurement. The
Bank provided essential waivers and exemptions in time for Government to acquire
the hardware expeditiously, and to secure Bank Credit proceeds made available for
the project. Notwithstanding these exceptional measures, the procurement process



35
was impeded, this time by the newly reconstituted Central Tender Board, which raised
a number of procedural questions to which Treasury did not respond rapidly.
32.   Meanwhile, the closing date for the project was extended to June 30, 2000 and
Government has taken advantage of this extension (albeit with further administrative
slippages) to conclude the tendering process for the computers that were expected to
be delivered by the due date.
33.   The other donors, especially SIDA, have worked in parallel to help the
Accountant General with training related to Financial Management Control and Audit
(FMCA). The Bank has been at the forefront in supporting Government to take
FMCA further by reviewing and restructuring the flow-of-funds mechanisms in
Government. This process resulted in Treasury Circular No. 3 of March 1, 2000,
which sets out a new mechanism for the management and flow of Donor Funds from
off-shore Special Accounts, as well as Government counterpart funds, through to the
district level. Bank interest in this project will continue to be reflected under the
proposed Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project. This will support
the review process of the enabling legislation that is required for the new integrated
financial management system to be implemented.
Legal and Judicial Reform
34.   The 1998 re-orientation of the Project included legal and judicial reform
objectives that led to the establishment of the Legal Sector Reform Co-ordinating
Committee (LSRCC) which was representative of the whole legal sector. The
LSRCC's broad mandate was "to undertake a comprehensive review of the legal
sector and recommend appropriate measures to enhance its operational efficiency."
To carry out the stated mandate, the LSRCC took a commendable, consultative
approach with stakeholders within the sector and by soliciting written views from the
public. These activities formed the basis for the Legal Sector Reform Programme
(LSRP). A pilot judicial service survey of sectoral representatives and the public
identified the main impediments to service delivery in the judiciary. The LSRCC
commissioned a researcher to identify the status of accomplishment of eight task
forces that had been mandated to examine laws relating to persons with disabilities,
penal laws and procedures, children, landlord-tenant issues, business entities, women,
press laws, and public order and security. Some of the findings from these analytical
studies were incorporated in the LSRP. Furthermore, the LSRP included some of the
recommendations of the Kwach Report that had not yet been implemented.6
35.   The most critical problems in the sector were identified. and a programme of
interventions was proposed; the LSRP was completed, adopted by Government and
presented to development partners. Key recommendations include:
6 A Committee on the Administration of Justice was established by the Chief Justice in early 1998.
Since it was chaired by Justice Kwach, its report, submitted in September 1998, is popularly referred to
by his name.



36
* The rationalisation of the functions of the Office of the Attorney General (OAG)
to transfer its current political functions to a Justice ministry, leaving the former
with purely professional functions; and
*  Strengthening the functional independence of the Judicial Service Commission to
improve its oversight capacity over the Judiciary.
36.   Discussions are on going with interested donors to determine areas and levels
of possible donor support. For the LSRP to be implemented, it should have its own
operational focal point but, given the interdependence and synergies between legal
sector reform and the broader public sector, it should also be linked both operationally
and programmatically to other, on-going reforms.
Technical Services in Support of Government's Change Initiative
37.   The Project financed the salaries of four of the six-member "Change Team"
recruited by Government in July 1999 from the Kenyan parastatal and private sector
and international organisations and appointed to leadership positions in the civil
service. These top-ranking technocrats are leading the change initiative that the
President launched in July 1999 with particular reference to tackling the problems of
inefficiency and corruption throughout the public service.  By June 2000 some
significant achievement had been recorded.  For example, following on the
redefinition of the core functions of government announced in May 1999, the number
of ministries was reduced in September 1999 from 27 to 15; the position of Permanent
Secretaries as accounting officers fully responsible for the management of the finance
and personnel functions in their respective ministries and departments was clarified;
Government has produced its Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (IPRSP) in
which Public Sector Reform (PSR) issues were addressed in several parts; the
FY2000/01 Budget was prepared in accordance with MTEF principles, and
Government has initiated a retrenchment plan to be implemented during
FY2000/2001 and FY2001/2002.
Project Financial Management Including Audits
38.   Project Financial Management System. The project developed a financial
management system that can be relied on to produce timely, understandable, relevant
and reliable financial information. However, the system was not documented in a
manual of financial procedures thus it cannot be replicated in a follow on project
without retention of the relevant accounting staff.
39.   Accounting system. Adequate records were maintained to reflect the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the project, and financial
transactions were accurately recorded. A good system exists for record keeping,
making it relatively easy to retrieve documents.
40. Audit. The submission of audited project financial statements lagged behind the
submission due dates, in contravention of Financial Covenants in the Development
Credit Agreement. It is, however, noted with appreciation that all audited project
financial statements have been unquaiified, an indication of the effectiveness of the



37
internal control and accounting systems developed and maintained by the
implementing agency. Delays in the submission of audit reports to the International
Development Association (IDA) have been caused mainly by the audit process that
dragged on well past the submission due-dates, reflecting inadequacy of management
of the audit fulnction in the Central Government.
41.   Audit reports for fiscal year ending June 30, 2000, will become due on
December 31, 2000, whilst final audit reports are expected on December 31, 2001.
Project Procurement
42.   The budgetary allocation for the acquisition of goods, services and training
was $21.4 million or over 90 per cent of the $25.35 million Credit. Within the
procurement budget, $5.9 million was earmarked for computers, nearly $1 million for
vehicles, $9.6 million for consultants and TA experts, and $4.9 million for training.
43.   Excluding any outstanding payments, about 72 per cent of the procurement
budget was spent by the closing date of the Credit. In other words, expenditures on
procurement constituted about 91 per cent of the total disbursements of the Credit.
Expenditures on (i) training were 82 per cent, (ii) procurement of computers and
consultancy services 70 per cent each, and (iii) vehicles 69 per cent of their respective
allocations. According to the project's original implementation plan it was to be
completed in 3.1 years, implying that, on average, $ 6.9 million was to be spent
annually on procurement. The project life was extended to about 5.3 years, implying
annual procurement expenditures $ 4.0 million. The actual disbursement rate of $ 3.2
million was considerably lower despite the following factors that ought to have
facilitated speedy implementation of procurement activities:
*  Only 74 per cent (as opposed to the normal rate of 80 per cent) of the amounts of
implemented contracts were subjected to the Bank's prior review;
*  the project was task-managed by the Bank from the field office during most of the
implementation period;
*  project components were reconstituted three times through the introduction of new
activities; and
*  the project life was extended from three to five years.
44.   Given the lack of effective institutional procurement arrangements between
the central agencies responsible for the project and the line ministries, delays or
suspension of procurement of equipment (mainly computers) that was critical to
enhancing government capacity and efficiency in service delivery constrained
successful implementation of procurement. Some of the IPPD equipment that was
procured and supplied to 27 Ministries plus some departments through a contract
issued in 1997 is yet to be installed and operationalised.  The Legal Reform
Secretariat could not go through the procurement process in time to award a contract
in time and hence has failed to procure computers under the Credit. The Credit had a
provision to finance procurement of computers for the Accountant General's
Department. For over two years, unwarranted delays occurred in the bidding process



38
of the tender. The procurement process has thus been a major factor limiting the
execution and success of the Project.
Project Disbursements
45.   From  the original Credit amount of US$25.35  million a total of
US$16,630,900 was disbursed as at June 28, 2000, leaving an undisbursed balance of
US$6,923,941. Outstanding commitments amount- to approximately US$1.5 million,
which should be disbursed by the end of the grace period on October 31, 2000. The
figure of US$1.5 million includes payments under process both at Treasury and at the
Bank, and balances in the two the Special Accounts. Once the committed funds are
disbursed, the level of disbursements should increase by about the same amount of
US$1.5 million, thus reducing the undisbursed amount.
Period Dates     Disbursements       Cumulative     Per cent Disbursed
(July 1-June 30)                     Disbursements       (Cumulative
1994/95          767,635            765,635             2.82
1995/96         1,563,021.71      2,330,657.65          8.79
1995/96        2,791,213.31       5,121,870.96          16.28
1997/98        4,906,798.46       10,028,579.42         41.27
1998/99        4,734,179.40       14,762,758.82         61.33
1999/00        2,021,187.51       16,783,946.33         68.98
46.   The low amounts disbursed in the first three years of project implementation is
due partly to the systemic cash flow and the slow implementation problems that cut
across the entire Kenya Portfolio. The disbursement flow was further affected by
persistent delays in processing payments at both project level and in the Treasury. In
addition, failure by the ministries to account for advanced funds in a timely manner,
and to thus enable the project to seek further replenishments/ reimbursements also
contributed to the slow disbursements. From the Bank side, delays in payments
processing arising from the change to a new computerised financial management
system (SAP) in the last year also contributed to delays. However, the disbursements
picked up in the last two years of implementation when a number of activities took
off, including the funding of the Kenya change team.
47.   Part of the delays arose from the many processing steps that all payment
vouchers had to go through before being released for payment, even when there was
no value added. The human factor too played a role resulting in the rate-of-rejection
of payment authorities (PAs) rising as high as 28 per cent. The payment-processing
steps were eventually reduced through a Treasury Circular issued in August 1998, and



39
a benchmark for payment processing was set at 28 days. The staff of the project and
the External Resources Department handling the payment processing were trained.
However, this did little to reduce the rejection rate, and the payment processing time.
As at March 31, 2000 the actual payment processing days for the project stood at 94
days compared to 69 days for the entire Kenya Portfolio.
Overall Outcome
48.   Given that both the policy achievements and the practical achievements of the
Project during its initial, planned implementation-period of three years were clearly
far below expectations, the ICR team would give the Project an outcome rating of
Unsatisfactory for this period. The project has still not realised several of its original
objectives, even after two-years of extended operation, and additional far-reaching
objectives have been added to its statement of purpose. Although some of the
originally envisaged activities have been completed after five years (work on several
of them is still underway) and progress is being achieved under the rubric of the
recently added objectives, not enough has been accomplished to date for the ICR team
to give more than an Unsatisfactory rating to the overall project.
Sustainability
49.   The sustainability of the activities supported by the Project is dependent on the
sustainability of the wider programme of reforms initiated by Government which in
turn are related to the political and economic context of the present and the future.
The elections of 1997 stifled Bank-financed economic and other public sector reforms
that were under way at the time. Elections are due again in 2002 and major political
transition is a possibility. The current drought is wreaking havoc on the Kenyan
economy that was already under-performing for a variety of reasons. A good deal of
political will and endurance will be necessary to follow through on the array of
initiatives that have been initiated in order to realise within the next few years a
genuine improvement in the delivery of public services to Kenyan citizens.
50. Ministerial Rationalisation and Staff Right-Sizing:
The ministerial rationalisation process is nigh complete at the centre, and
sustainability is likely, although there remain anomalies at the ministerial level,
perception that "ownership" is lacking, and that the process has been externally
driven. Furthermore, with its focus on the centre, rationalisation is said to have had
little if any effect yet on the field units responsible for service delivery.
51.   Compensation Reform:
The objective of paying public servants salaries closer to that of the private sector will
be difficult to realise considering the poor state of the economy, and uncertainty
associated with government financial mobilisation, thus the attainment of this
objective in the near future is unlikely.



40
52.  Improving Management Practices
This dimension of the project requires a comprehensive approach beginning with
meritocratic staffing, up-to-date job descriptions and annual statements of objectives,
regular communication between supervisor and employee, objective means of
verifying performance, and training in the use of all the fore-going. This has occurred
only in isolated instances, although the new performance appraisal is beginning to be
used and is favourably regarded. Sustainability of accomplishments is likely but the
probability of following through and institutionalising all of these practices in the
medium term is unlikely.
53.  Improving Opportunities for Staff Development
The original objectives of establishing a demand-based training programme are far
from being met and will be dependent inter alia on establishing a structure wherein
training relates both to performance criteria and to staff incentives, neither of which is
in place yet. Therefore the probability of attaining these objectives in the medium
term is unlikely.
54.   Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
The FY2000/2002 budget has been prepared according to MTEF principles and the
key senior staff across government have been trained in its application, therefore
sustainability is likely, although it should be noted that for most civil servants, the
extent to which they have been "sensitised" about MTEF is much greater than the
extent to which they have been trained to apply and understand it.
55.   Strengthening Government Financial Management, Accounting and Auditing
Functions
Sustainability is likely given the reforms that have already been put in place, the work
that is underway to review the Exchequer and Audit Act and the Paymaster General
Act, the training that has been undertaken and the new equipment that has been
provided
56.   Legal and Judicial Reform
The work of the LSRCC has laid the foundation for profound and far-reaching reform
in the key areas of legal and judicial reform. Notwithstanding this achievement, given
the absence of effective leadership in the past to bring about legal reform on the basis
of the work of the eight task forces that were established some seven years ago to
propose legislative reforms, the team would rate the current probability of there being
follow-through on the LSRCC recommendations as unlikely.
57.   Support for Government's Change Initiative Through the Provision of
Technical Advisor Services
The Bank-and-donor-financed Change Team has some impressive accomplishments
to its credit after one year and Government has so much riding on the follow-through



41
to these reforms that the team would rate sustainability as likely, at least in the short
term. In the medium term, the nature of political succession after the 2002 elections
may influence significantly the overall quality of technocratic leadership and the
functioning of the machinery of government.
Key Lessons Learned
58.   General Lessons:
* The importance of Government commitment cannot be overstated; the
essence of the project was to achieve cost containment through the reduction
of the wage bill to facilitate the cost-effective delivery of services to the
public. The Project contributed little in this respect;
* The importance of a coherent policy design should be underscored; i.e.., the
entire public service, not only the civil service, should be included in
measures to contain the growth of the wage bill and to improve the delivery
of public services;
* The importance of proper sequencing should be underscored: i.e., the
identification of core functions of government, ministerial rationalisation,
determination of optimal staffing norms and numbers, and then well-
administered, targeted retrenchment;
* The legal framework, particularly the ensemble of legislation that must
reflect harmoniously the core functions and policies of government and the
rationalisation of ministries, is on the critical path to implementing other
components of the reform process;
* Given the wide-ranging scope and the consequences of a project such as
this, it should be entrusted only to the most senior and competent of
managers, within the right institutional setting, and with the authority and
influence to see it through;
* Ensure that strong, committed individuals are in charge of each component,
as well as the overall PSR reform agenda;
* Every such project should have in place a comprehensive project reporting
system that would enable the borrower and the Bank to monitor and control
systematically the progress achieved against each of its approved activities
and against an agreed calendar, and to relate monies spent first to contracts
issued, thence to goods or services provided and finally to the results
attained from them;
* Ensure that the key players are involved in and committed to the process
from the beginning (DPM, CSRS, Ministry of Finance);
* Exclude vested interests from the design of reform, i.e. people are unlikely
to reform themselves out of a job of their own volition;
* Take seriously into account such realities as the state of the economy, the
weather (drought, floods), forthcoming elections and political transitions
when planning and scheduling sensitive reform projects;
* Don't overload the reform agenda - ensure there is the human and
institutional capacity to take it on;
* Identify critical and highly sensitive areas of the reform agenda early-on to
ensure that they have the necessary political and financial support.



42
59.  Country-Specific Lessons:
*  The procurement system is cumbersome and was responsible for delays in
project implementation.  Given the lending programme that is being
developed for Kenya, Government should accelerate the implementation of
the agenda for procurement reform including the establishment of the
recommended institutional structures and the capacity-building programme;
*  It is essential to understand the nature and scope of bureaucratic rivalries
that often suffocate reform efforts;
*  Note the difficulty in getting civil servants on board in the absence of a
perception of immediate tangible benefits from donor-initiated projects.
Borrower's Views
60.   The Bank's ICR aide-memoire is expected to summarise the Borrower's views
in addition to the views of the Bank team. Government has prepared a very complete
table summarising and commenting on the major activities and achievements that
were planned and/or implemented under the project. A copy of this table is available
upon request.
Next Steps
61.   The Bank's ICR is expected to be completed and circulated to the Board
within six months of the June 30, 2000 closing date, i.e., no later than December 30,
2000. Accordingly, the following schedule is agreed:
The financial audit of project accounts for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2000 is due
by December 31, 2000.
The financial audit of project accounts for the period July 1 to October 31, 2000 are
due by December 31, 2001.
The Bank's draft ICR is to be sent to Government for review and comment by
October 31, 2000.
The final version of the Borrower's Evaluation Report is to be sent to the Bank by
November 15, 2000.



43
ANNEX 1
Key Performance Indicators
Outcome/Impact Indicators
Rationalization of    *  Increase in productivity, and reduction in    *  Between April 1994 and March
Staffing and improved     management burden of controlling surplus   2000 a total of 42,132 staff in
establishment control     staff.                                    job groups A - G (lower
*  Better budgeting, planning and allocation  cadres) retired under VERS.
of staff resources. Resources freed up for   *  First MTEF annual budget was
O&M spending.                             prepared for FY 2000/01
*  Small Increase in O&M
spending.
Compensation          *  Streamline Salary and Benefit structure.    *  Better pay decompression; and
Reforms               .  Introduce criteria based job grading.       salary levels slightly nearer to
*  Reduction in inequitable benefits.         the market;
*  Simplified grading structure
and scheme of service;
Personnel             *  Higher quality of staff in more appropriate
Management                jobs, with better morale.
*  Improved mechanism for hiring, firing,
promotion, appraisal, etc., and better
organization of personnel functions.
Staff Development     *  Training to become demand-driven
encouraging enhanced quality.
*  Analysis of course portfolio, and buying
habits of civil service institutions.
*  Direct feedback from civil servants.
Rationalization of    .  Improved service delivery in target     *  Pilot surveys (ongoing) to
Target Ministries         ministries.                                assess quality of service in
selected ministriesl
departments.
Capacity Building for  *  Streamlining of organization, staff and
Phases II and III of      procedures in CSRS, PSC, and KIA
Reform Program            capacity.



44
Output Indicator
Rationalization of     *  Improving the design of the    *  Introduction of IPPD system was
Staffing and improved      VERS, and a review of costs    completed at Ministry of Finance
establishment control      and benefits.                  and Planning but it has not become
*  Developing an overall          an operational management
structure for establishment    instrument.
and payroll control to ensure   *  Public Expenditure Reviews were
staff reductions achieved      undertaken as a pre-cursor to the
through VERS can be            introduction of the MTEF
sustained;                     budgeting process.
*  Definition, development and   *  Up-to-date information on civil
introduction of a new         service numbers and establishment
Integrated Personnel &        control mechanisms.
Payroll Database system for   *  Freeze in recruitment reinforced
the entire civil service: and  except in critical areas - security
and health.
Compensation           *  Undertake a comprehensive    .  In 1994 government introduced
Reforms                    review of pay and benefits,    monetization of out-patient medical
grading, policies and          allowance, and automatic house
procedures, and job            allowance for all civil servants.
evaluation techniques,      *  In 1994, and later in 1997
leading to full                Government raised salaries of civil
implementation of an           servants by 10 -16 per cent, and 20
improved structure.            - 40 per cent respectively.
*  A detailed study on how the    *  Disposal of the majority of
Government should move         government housing stock.
away from the practice of
housing civil servants, and  High Flyers Scheme is to be included in
assistance in achieving this.   the successor, public sector reform
*  Implementation of           project.
performance related pay, or
an alternative system, to
improve motivation.
Develop and roll-out of a pilot
"High Flyers Scheme" to attract
and retain high caliber staff.



45
Personnel               *  Develop an overall human       *  Terns and condition of service
Management                  resource strategy and training   were revised.
in change management         .  Code of regulations and conduct
techniques for key groups.       was revised.
*  Review of central personnel    .  Several schemes of service were
management organization and      revised.
procedures, including options  *  Completion of ministerial
for decentralization; and        functional reviews
*  Development and               *  Personnel appraisal format was
introduction of a modern         developed but not yet incorporated
performance appraisal system    fully into a performance appraisal
for both senior and junior       system related to MTEF goals,
grades;                          work plans, etc.
Staff Development       .  Support to the Kenya Institute  *  A draft training policy was
of Administration to help it     developed for the civil service.
become an efficient,         .  Kenya Institute of Administration
autonomous provider of high      was granted semi autonomous
quality market-oriented          status.
training courses.            *  Early retirees under VERS were
*  Limited support to the           trained
Government Training          .  Short-term courses on policy
Institute at Mombasa to          analysis, public service reform, and
support training of early       information technology were
retirees under the VERS.         conducted locally and abroad.
*  Execution of intensive
specialist training programs,
involving courses in Kenya
and abroad, for key staff in
CSRS, DPM, the PSC and the
Reform Committees.
Rationalization of       *  Support to rationalization    *  Piloting of ministerial
Target Ministries           programmes in the five target    rationalisation in 12 ministries was
(Health; Finance; Lands     key ministries,                  undertaken between 1995 1997.
and Settlements; Public   *  Establishment of new revenue    GoK approved the rationalization
Works and Housing;          authoritv                        recommendations of the then
Land Reclamation,                                            Ministry of Agriculture for
Regional and Water                                           implementation.
Development),                                             .  Formulation of a policy framework
for Ministry of Health.
. The Kenya Revenue Authority was
.._____________._________ .________________________________  established.



46
Capacity Building for                                  *  Ministries/ departments developed
Phases II and III of                                      but not implemented demand driven
Reform Program                                            training programmes.
* Various officers benefited from
local and overseas training
programmes
* Training vote was strengthened
through allocation of more financial
resources to ministries.
* Training function was decentralized
from DPM to the ministries/
departments, through the
establishment of human resource
development units.



47
ANNEX 2
Project Cost By Component (In US$ Million Equivalent)
VERS                                                  1137          135.38              119.7
Rationalization of Staff and Approved Estimate Control  9.12          6.8               74.6
Compensation Reforms                                  2.11           0.85               40.3
Personnel Management                                   0.84           2.6               309.5
Staff Development                                     4.36           3.99               95.5
Rationalization of Target Ministries                   7. 76          8.0                103
Project Management costs                               4.22           4.9               116.1
Accounting Reforms                                     1.4            0.6               42.9
Legal sector Reforms                                   0.85           0.4               47.1
Total                                                143.65         163.44              113.8
Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (in US $ million equivalent)
Goods:  Equipment/ 3.22         1.21   0.72   0.21   5.36    1.2      8.8    0.12   -       10.12
Computers/ Vehicles/
Office Supplies
Consulting Services   -         -      15.37  0.47   15.84   1.6      5.8     -      -      7.4
Training              -                3.39   2.0   5.39    0.07    5.03    -        -      5.1
Project Management -            -      -       4.64  4.64    -        -       -      4.9   4.9
Costs
Total Procurement    3.22       1.21   19.48  7.32  31.23   2.87    19.63   0.12   4.9   27.52
The amnount was estimate for 3 years, but actual payment extended for 6 years
The amount is inclusive of donors contribution (DfID 16.5 M. and The Dutch 4.6M)



48
Project Financing by Component (in US $ million equivalent)
Con,po_nL            f                lY v     Xt0:e     40|U|    
8.00    105.00     -      16.55    114.1      -       108.7       206.9
3.08     1.30     0.52     5.0       -      0.25    162.3      48.1           -
13.97    0.43       -      818        -        -      586        -
434       -       0.18     4.9       -       0.53    1129    2944             -
0.36      -       0.01     0.72      -       0.74    200.0      1.2
4.22     032               0.05              112
2.17     0.971 1  10.99     -               
143~~~~~14                  -        -                          
25.35    10.70   120.92   19.12   16.55   115.67   75.4         95.6        154.7
9 ODA planned to support inputs to KIA and the VERS exercise subject to agreement over conditions
' As attached to the Aide Memoire following appraisal
Funds will support Ministry of Health restructuring



49
ANNEX 3
Cost Benefit Analysis
Not Applicable



50
ANNEX 4
4Ank Inputs: Site Visits
a' Mission
.I,dentflicati*I   I 993    I    3       N.A.  Task Team Leader
::::repai StIQ :E:E:irEPublic Sector Management
Economics
Jubx           4       N.A.  Task Team Leader
Oct                            Public Sector Management
W.ii:  ;; ..... 1994  .... 1 T Legal
Operations Analyst
Negotati.4'"s   t Nov           4        N.A.  Task Team Leader
I':''0' "M   .    1994                           Public Sector Management
Legal
-i: -0:  ------------i   12     Operations  Analyst
Su pervi<nio      Mav                     12    Task Team Leader
199 i                          Public Sector Management (3)
Operations Analyst
:-                         1t:   0;.E'  e--- --.-- --   ---  
Mid-aTennf aggi  Nov.          4        N.A.  Task Team Leader
Reiew           11996                           Public Sector Management (3)
[ eisiSW ieO      Feb-Fiar               N.A.  Task Team Leader
1997           -             _
r0i''0$0'-''0-: ft  8    9    Task Team Leader
Public Sector Management (2)
Legal
Economist (2)
Finance (2)
Jii           -      .  9    Task Team Leader
;00 gg:y;>0iif A  -g   .lv J   l   !Public Sector Management (2)
tESSo{otSiD;istSnDbE4    S | -199  1  IFinance  (2)
Procurement
______ ;1Economist (3)
SRap QnIik :ty   m'1v           7 1   N.A.  NA.
o' Spervsion::; I tt0     
I Sup$eri0.ijvgua      ......it[ ,t> . 9    ; 5    Task Team Leader
14400-t-it;00ii -;00000j 00  -lPublic Sector Management (2)
Economist
I: =    0-   !Legal
Finance (2)
Procurement
Disbursement



51
Junek9               18     Task Team Leader
2000                ~~~~~Public Sector Management (2)
Economist (2)
Legal
Finance
Procurement
Disbursement Specialist___
Bank Input: Staff
Identirication! Preparation                          67.8                            210.7
Appraisal! Negotiation                               46.2                            148.8
Supervision                                          160.7                           526.1
ICR                                                    8.0                            26.3
Total                                                280.7                           911.9



52
ANNEX 5
Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                      N
Sector Policies                     M
Physical                            NA
Financial                           M
Institutional Development           N
Environmental                       NA
Social
Poverty Reduction       N
Giender                 NA
Other (Please specify)  NA
Private sector development         NA
Public sector management           M
Other (Please specify)             NA



53
ANNEX 6
Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly
Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                              Rating
Lending                                            S
Overall                                            S
6.2 Borrower performance                          Rating
Preparation                                        S
Government implementation performance              U
Implementation agency performance                  S
Overall                                             S



54
ANNEX 7
List of Supporting Documents:
*  Development Credit Agreements
*  Project mid-term Review
*  Progress Reports
*  Aide Memoire
*  Back to office reports



55
ANNEX 8
Candid Comments from Kenyan Interviewees
Overall Project Design (Phase II of the project addressed some of these issues)
* Underscore the importance of a coherent policy. design; i.e., include the entire
public service, not only the civil service, in measures to contain the growth of the
wage bill;
* Underscore the importance of proper sequencing: identification of core functions
of government, ministerial rationalisation, determination of optimal staffing norms
and numbers, and then well-administered, targeted retrenchment;
* Ensure that the key players are involved in and committed to the process from the
beginning (DPM, CSRS, Ministry of Finance);
* Ensure that strong, committed individuals are in charge of each component, as
well as the overall PSR reform agenda, and that they work closely together;
* Exclude vested interests from the design of reform (people are unlikely of their
own volition to reform themselves out of a job);
* Take seriously into account such realities as the state of the economy, the weather
(drought, floods), forthcoming elections and political transitions when planning
and scheduling sensitive reform projects;
* Don't overload the reform agenda - ensure there is the human and institutional
capacity to take it on;
* Identify critical and highly sensitive areas of the reform agenda early-on to ensure
that they have the necessary political and financial support;
* The realignment of ministerial functions should be related to the privatisation of
parastatals to ensure that the divestiture of functions does not necessarily cause the
divestiture of essential professional skills and knowledge;
* Conduct a cost analysis of the components of the O&M budget - costs of office
rents should be looked at closely - payments and rents may be going in some
cases to non-existent buildings and/or to the contractors who were supposed to
have constructed them;
* Get beyond the numbers when looking at the Civil Service - ascertain whether
the right kinds of staff are in place to implement the reforms - lawyers,
accountants, auditors, informatics personnel, etc.
* World Bank should be more than a facilitator working just with DPM and CSRS;
it has to be closer to the line ministries and the Provincial Administration
Ministerial Rationalisation
* The original, partial, segmented approach to ministerial rationalisation was flawed
from the beginning; immediately the exercise commenced, it became evident that
it had to encompass the whole of government. (Based on the lessons learnt during
the pilot, a comprehensive rationalisation is, in fact, being implemented);
* Administrative overlaps remain within the Provincial Administration, i.e., the
personnel registries in Provincial and District offices duplicate ministerial



56
registries (these overlaps will be eliminated in the course of further
rationalisation);
* Rationalisation hasn't necessarily contributed anything to service delivery, i.e., in
the past there were separate agricultural and veterinary extension officers without
any means of transport for visiting farmers or pastoralists. One now has a unified
extension officer without any transport. (Improvement to service delivery will
assume a higher profile in the current phase of civil service reform).
Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
I.  The allocation of funds to the core functions of government was more like an
overcrowded, disorganised auction in a bazaar favouring the loudest and most
articulate than a forum for rationally expressed priorities;
II.   The extent to which civil servants have been "sensitised" about MTEF is much
greater than the extent to which they have been trained to understand and apply
it;
* To the extent that the recent exercise was successful, it was because of dedicated
individuals who worked extraordinarily long hours rather than good training,
planning and organising;
Rationalisation of Staffing and Compensation Reform
*  The former was quite well done, but not the latter;
* Government housing (owned and rented) cannot be disposed of quickly; the whole
issue of the provision of housing or housing allowances has to be integrated
thoughtfully into compensation reform packages related to the realities of civil
service pay and the cost or even availability of housing in urban and rural Kenya
Voluntary Early Retirement Scheme
Phase I
*  The anticipated benefits that were to accrue -  better emoluments for civil
servants, and more O&M for improved service delivery, were never realised. This
is said to have lowered the morale of the civil servants who remain behind with
increased workloads, but not increased compensation, or improved facilities to
carry out their work;
*  The process didn't provide incentives for ministries. One possibility would have
been for them to retain a proportion of the PE savings for their O&M budgets;
*  Public servants should be sensitised early-on to the likelihood of continual
movement over their life-time careers so that they can plan well in advance for
relocations, early retirement, etc.;
*  High-quality, difficult-to-replace staff are often amongst the first to opt for the
VERS package. Their departure inflicts considerable difficulty on the Civil
Service and "casual" replacements normally cannot substitute for them;



57
*  Studies on the consequences of post-retrenchment should be conducted to
determine (a) whether the premises upon which the approach is designed achieve
cost-reduction objectives and, if so, at what rate of return; and (b) the extent to
which the retrenchees are able to use the buy-out package to sustain their pre-
retrenchment standard of living;
* Retirement briefings should be conducted on a regular routine basis -
incorporated into the standard procedures;
*  The training provided for VERS was too brief (two days), under-funded, and
poorly timed (often only days before retrenchees were to leave the Civil Service).
*  The "business development" vocabulary of the training went well over the heads
of the lower cadres, many of whom could also not understand any training given in
either English or Kiswahili;
*  The training programme for retrenchees should include a component on the
psychological dimensions of retirement;
*  Retrenchment should be targeted and managed. In some cases certain units lost
their entire complement of drivers, messengers, typists, cooks, etc., and the cadres
remaining couldn't drive, type or cook!
*  The financial administration of the process that operated on an exchequer basis
was inadequate; some retrenchees became beggars as they waited to receive their
payments. Arrange for VERS funds to be sent directly to the lowest possible level
of the Provincial Administration (rather than via the Provincial headquarters);
-  Verify why thousands of people who applied for VERS as long ago as 1994 have
not yet been retrenched; people in the Provincial administration suggest it might
be because they haven't provided "kitu kidogo" to DPM Nairobi (it is believed
that people who pay can jump the queue);
*  Assure that such basics as forms and paper are provided down to the lowest levels
responsible for the administration of the process; in the past, District Offices have
not always had even the small financial resources required to buy basic
retrenchment forms, paper, paper-clips, etc.
3  Set time limits within which the system is required to administer an individual's
application;
*  Distinguish between "handshake" retrenchees and pensionable or other retirees.
Don't provide handshake package to people who are close to retirement anyway;
*  Conduct an analysis to determine the effects of the VERS exercise on poverty (the
perception being that VERS focused on the financial dimensions of retrenchment
to the detriment of the human dimension; that more than half of the retrenchees
have fared poorly; that retrenched women have generally done better than
retrenched men; that retrenchees from Central Province have done better than
people from the other provinces);
Phase II
*  In the provinces, turf boundaries between the Provincial Administration and the
ministries have not permitted an optimal allocation amongst staff who remain
after Phase I, or the identification of staff to be retrenched in Phase II;
*  Files at the Centre are very scanty -  shouldn't be used as a basis for selecting
people from the provincial administration for retrenchment (some administration
staff don't even know how to fill in appraisal forms);



5g
Performance-Based Management
*  Requires comprehensive approach beginning with meritocratic staffing, up-to-date
job descriptions and annual statements of objectives, regular communication
between supervisor and employee, objective means of verifying performance, and
training in the use of all the fore-going. This has occurred only in isolated
instances, although the new performance appraisal is beginning to be used and is
favourably regarded.
* No systematic mechanisms for surveying or monitoring service delivery have
been put in place;
Training
*  Core functions of each Ministry should be determined, and staffing norms should
be established, before proceeding with analysis of training requirements;
*  Before re-inventing the wheel and duplicating efforts, determine whether skills
analyses and training needs assessments have already been conducted by other
projects, i.e., ASMP II in the case of the Ministry of Agriculture;
Procurement
*  The Kenyan procurement system is extremely cumbersome, time-consuming and
limits credibility with suppliers. Project planning should be scheduled on the
basis of knowledge about the length of time for local procurement to take place;
*  The staff in line ministries are not well trained in World Bank procurement
procedures; this has caused delays of up to six months. At least one element of
the project, (Computerisation of land records), was time-barred in 1997 because of
the procurement process.
Legal
*  Legal - Political will - there is an overemphasis on the form of reform (bills,
legislation) and not enough on the substance (follow-through on implementation);
*  Legal reform, and particularly the formulation and harmonisation of laws to
reflect the core functions of government and the rationalisation of ministries, is on
the critical path to implementing other components of the reform process. More
than 60 pieces of uncoordinated legislation govern the mandate of the current
Ministry of Agriculture; more than 30 acts govern Land, and so on...
* Assure that the legal framework accommodates the intentions of reform.



