Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13609-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND CIVIL SERVICE REFORM PROJECT
NOVEMBER 30, 1994
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DIVISION
EASTERN AFRICA DEPARTMENT



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            =      Kenya Shilling (K Sh)
US$1.00                         K Sh 50
K Sh 1.00                =      US$0.02
SDR                      =      US$1.473
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CSRS         Civil Service Reform Secretariat
DPM          Directorate of Personnel Management
GOK          Government of Kenya
GTI          Government Training Institute
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Association
IPPD        Integrated Personnel and Payroll Database
KIA          Kenya Institute of Administration
MCS          Management Consulting Services
MRC          Ministerial Reform Committee
NSC          National Steering Committee
ODA          Overseas Development Administration
O&M          Operations and Maintenance Expenditure
PFP          Policy Framework Paper
PIN          Personal Identification Number
PS           Permanent Secretary
PSC          Public Service Commission
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
VERS         Voluntary Early Retirement Scheme
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1- June 30



THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
AND CIVIL SERVICE REFORM PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS '
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............................                                i
. BACKGROUND   . .
A.  General Background and Overall Economic Performance .                        1
B. Sector Background .1
C.  Development Strategy and Medium-term Framework ...................................... 2
II. THE CIVIL SERVICE REFORM PROGRAM .,, .                                            3
A.  Major Features of the Kenyan Civil Service and Areas for Reform.             3
B. Recent Developments.                                                          6
III. THE PROJECT ..............................9
A.  Project Objectives .............................9
B.   Summary Project Description ............................................   10
C. Government Commitment .12
D. Institutional Arrangements .13
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT  ..15
A. Project Costs .15
B Project Implementation .17
C. Financing Plan .18
D. Procurement .19
E.   Disbursements                                                              21
F.   Accounting, Auditing and Reporting                                         22
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .22
This report is based on the findings of two preappraisal missions and one appraisal mission which visited
Kenya in March, May and July 1994, comprising Mr. Khaled Sherif (Mission Leader and Task Manager), Mr.
Ian Knapp (AF2PE), Ms. Jacqueline Coolidge (AF2PE), Mr. Said Al-Habsy (LEGAF), Mr. Roger Sullivan
(AFTCB), Ms. Mariel Fiat (AF2PE), Mr. Reynaldo Castro (AF2PE), Mr. Sami Atallah (AF2PE), Mr.
Angelous Mrope (AFTCB), Mr. Dahir Warsame (AF2EA), and Mr. Colin Bruce (AF2CO). The Credit was
developed in collaboration with Mr, David Wood of the British Overseas Development Administration in
Eastern Africa (ODA). Nairobi. Mr. Mamadou Dia (AFTCB) is the Lead Advisor and the Peer Reviewer is
Mr. Roger Sullivan (AFTCB). Mr. Surendra Agarwal (AF2DR) is the Department Project Adviser. The
document also benefited from the advice of Mr. Ladipo Adamolekun (AFTCB). Mr. Robert E. Hindle and Mr.
Francis X. Colaco are the managing Division Chief and Department Director, respectively.



VI. BENEFITS  AND  RISKS ................................................ 23
A .     B enefits    .........      ... .............. ...................... 23
B .     R isk s   ................................................                                                       2 3
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................... ..........   24
A.    Agreements Reached ................................................ 24
B.    Assurances Obtained during Negotiations ................                            ................................ 24
C.    Conditions of Effectiveness                                         ................................................ 25
D.    Recommendation                      ................................................  25
ANNEXES
Annex I                 Detail of Phases of CSRP
Annex II                Key Milestones of the Project Implementation Plan
Annex III               Summary of Monitoring Indicators
Annex IV                Supervision Strategy
Annex V                 Management Structure for Project Implementation and Supervision
Annex VI                Project Organization and Management
Annex VII               Technical Assistance Provided by Project Contractual Services
Annex VIII    Procurement Plan
Annex IX                Estimated IDA Disbursement Schedule
Annex X                 Terms of Reference for Principal Accountant CSRS
Annex XI                Government of Kenya: Letter of Sectoral Policy
Annex XII               Contents of the Project Implementation Plan (Manual)
Annex XIII              Documents Available in Project File
MAP:                            IBRD 26150



KENYA
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
AND CIVIL SERVICE REFORM PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Kenya
Implementing Agencies:  Directorate of Personnel Management, Civil Service Reform
Secretariat, and the Ministries of Finance, Health; Lands and
Settlement, Public Works and Housing; Land Reclamation
Regional and Water Development
Beneficiaries:            Not applicable
Poverty:                  Not applicable
Credit Amount:            SDR 17.2 million (US$25.35 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard, with 40 years maturity
Financing Plan:           See Section 4, Table 2
Map:                      IBRD 26150






THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
AND CIVIL SERVICE REFORM PROJECT
I.    BACKGROUND
A.    General Background and Overall Economic Performance
1. I.  Reform of the civil service in Kenya should be viewed in its broad historical context. Four
phases can be distinguished in Kenya's economic performance since Independence in 1963: (a)
rapid growth and low inflation in the first decade until 1973; (b) growth and rising inflation during
1973-80, due to adverse terms of trade and the emergence of structural and policy induced
constraints in agriculture and manufacturing; (c) serious macroeconomic imbalances and low
growth during 1980-85, caused mainly by the second oil shock in 1979, the erosion of fiscal
discipline and a severe drought in 1984; and (d) renewed economic growth during 1986-90,
largely the result of structural reforms and progress toward stabilization. However, 1991 and
1992 saw renewed destabilizing fiscal pressures, a weaker reform effort and slower growth. Fiscal
discipline improved by mid-1992 but monetary expansion in 1993 has continued and performance
on structural reforms has been mixed.
1.2.  In 1993 Kenya's economy (GDP at factor cost) is estimated to have grown at 0.2-0.4
percent, down from 0.4 percent in 1992 and 2.3 percent in 1991. The 1993 growth rate is likely to
be the lowest since Kenya became independent. With population growing at about 3.4 percent a
year (down from 3.6 percent in 1992), the slow growth in 1992 and 1993 has, for the first time in
post-independence Kenya, resulted in falling per capita income.  The economy is heavily
dependent on agriculture, which employs about 80 percent of the labor force and contributes
more than a quarter of GDP. Coffee and tea account for close to one half of merchandise exports.
The service sector accounts for about 45 percent of GDP and is an important source of
employment. It includes tourism which in recent years has become Kenya's leading foreign
exchange earner. The manufacturing sector is relatively developed and diversified, contributes
about 12 percent of GDP and employs close to 8 percent of the labor force.
B.    Sector Background
1.3.  The civil service, at 272,000 (excluding teachers) as of August 1993, represents over 13
percent of employment in the modern and informal sectors (i.e., excluding smallholder
agriculture). At independence in 1963, the civil service had an establishment of 60,300, while
Kenya's population was 8 million. In 1965, the Sessional Paper No. 10 on African Socialism and
its Application to Development in Kenya was issued setting the agenda for greatly expanded
government intervention. Kenya's population has steadily increased at an average annual growth
rate of almost 4% and had reached about 24 million in 1993. The rapid population growth, along
with the expectations raised by African Socialism, created an even greater demand for public
services. Consequently, the civil service establishment has grown over the years by about 6.5



- 2 -
percent per annum.  Civil service growth in part has reflected the political philosophy of
successive Governments and their attempts to guide the development process. Another important
factor affecting growth has been the Government's commitment to be the employer of the last
resort.
1.4.   Kenyans are now facing new challenges in economic management and public policy.
Quality public services remain a priority, but cost considerations have become significantly more
important. Not only must Kenyans' needs be met, they must be met efficiently. Pervasive reform
of the civil service is therefore required. In response to this imperative, a wide ranging review of
the structure and functions of the civil service was conducted  in  1992.   Extensive
recommendations and an action plan for reform have been developed, and implementation has
started.
C.    Development Strategy and Medium-term Framework
1.5.   An overriding goal of government economic policy is to return to renewed growth as soon
as possible. On the basis of policies outlined in the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1994-96, it
is expected that GDP growth will recover to 5-6 percent per annum in 1995 and 1996. The
increased economic activity is expected to derive from higher private sector investment in
response to more stable macro-economic conditions and improved micro-economic efficiency.
Significant progress is called for over the PFP period, beginning with the 1994/95 budget, in
shifting allocation of budget resources towards the core functions of Government:  the
maintenance of law and order and the administration of justice; the provision of broad-based basic
education and health services; the provision of economic infrastructure; and the protection of the
environment.
1.6.   There are three priority areas for Kenya: (a) public sector adjustment, involving the
divestiture and reorganization of parastatals, the down-sizing and rationalization of the civil
service, and the rationalization of the remaining public expenditures; (b) developing the private
sector through reform of the legal and regulatory environment and financial sector, and the
elimination of the remaining foreign exchange, price, marketing and production controls; and (c)
targeted intervention to alleviate poverty, including improvement in the delivery of social service
to low-income groups, with special attention to the development needs of women and residents in
arid and semi-arid areas.'
1.7.   As Kenya enters a period of significantly accelerated structural change there will be a need
for flexible and responsive management, and strengthened analytical and policy making capability.
Over the long run, improved policy formulation and implementation capacity depend primarily on
the creation of an environment supportive of objective analysis and professionalism, a key goal of
civil service reform. Within this framework, the Government recognizes the need to substantially
raise civil service wages in order to move towards parity vis-a-vis the private sector. This should
be achieved while reducing the total wage bill in relation to GDP, as the size of the civil service is
1 Country Strategy Paper, May 1994.



- 3 -
reduced. In order to spur growth, development expenditure and recurrent non-wage operating
and maintenance expenditure (O&M) will need to increase as a share of GDP over the PFP
period. The GOK will consider developing targets for the structure of recurrent budget in light of
the findings of the studies on O&M requirements at the ministerial level.
II.    THE CIVIL SERVICE REFORM PROGRAM
A.    Major Features of the Kenyan Civil Service and Areas for Reform
2.1.   As described above, there is a consensus that wide ranging rationalization of the structure
and functions of the Civil Service is necessary. A comprehensive Civil Service Reform Program
and Action Plan was developed in May 1992 under the auspices of the Directorate of Personnel
Management in the Office of the President, and approved by the Government. This Program was
based on an extensive review of current problems faced by the civil service. The most important
problems are listed below and then described in more detail:
(i)   civil service organization;
(ii)   staffing control and financial management,
(iii)   personnel management and development; and
(iv)   pay and benefits.
(i)    Civil Service Organization
2.2.   Growing Central Complexity: Through the 1970s and 1980s there was a rapid growth
in the number of ministries and departments.2  In the process, government machinery became
fragmented and multi-layered, leading to a decrease in efficiency and effectiveness. Though this
was partially addressed with a reduction in numbers of ministries in January 1993, structural
overlaps, duplication and redundancy still exist at the central level.
2.3.  Coordination between Government Bodies: Problems here include: (i) lack of policy
coordination between different agencies; (ii) overcentralization of decision-making and insufficient
contact between ministry headquarters and district representatives; (iii) slow implementation of
the District Focus for Rural Development Strategy introduced in 1983 in order to shift some
responsibility for planning and setting priorities from Nairobi to the districts.
2.4.   Structural Problems inside Ministries: Change in policy goals and functions has not
always been matched by reorganization inside the larger Ministries.  The lack of clear
responsibilities and functions for different units has made it difficult to measure, control and
improve performance.
2 In 1971 Central Government consisted of 19 ministries. By 1992 there were 35, reduced subsequently by 22 by
simple merging.



(ii)    Staffing Control and Financial Management
2.5.   Rapid Growth in Staff Numbers: Staff numbers grew rapidly in the late 1980's, totalling
over 272,000  by early  1994.   Poor recruitment control and ineffective budgeting  and
establishment control mechanisms led to considerable staff surpluses. Problems arising now
include: (i) gross overstaffing at the lower levels of the service; (ii) lack of resources to hire staff
to fill vacant positions in higher job groups and in areas where skills are scarce;   and (iii)
inadequate provision for complementary non-wage O&M resources (civil service pay now
absorbs over 70 percent of the recurrent expenditures of central government).
2.6.   Budgetary Control Mechanisms:  The Budget Department is having difficulty in
monitoring and controlling the expenditure (particularly personal emoluments) of line Ministries
and departments. However, the department has recently instituted quarterly ceilings and put into
place a budget monitoring system. Recruitment does not always follow laid down machinery, and
the civil service establishment is not properly synchronized with objective assessment of
workload.3 The recent recruitment freeze has prevented further deterioration but the structural
and systemic weaknesses remain.
2.7.   Management Information Systems: The personnel management information system4 for
the civil service is deficient. The Treasury mainframe computer used for running the entire civil
service payroll dates from 1968 and is prone to breakdown. Personnel records at Ministry Level
are mostly compiled manually and do not reconcile with budget estimates or with the Treasury
payroll.  Certain large ministries have launched census exercises to improve their personnel
information, but cannot easily update their findings, and are obliged to repeat the exercise
regularly.
2.8.   Lack of focus on priority areas:  There has also been little success in concentrating
limited resources on high priority projects. Some Ministries are turning to the donor-financed
portion of the budget for the funding of their non-wage O&M. Consequently, they have been
reluctant to reduce the number of projects in their portfolios as this would limit the number of
candidates for aid funds. There are ongoing attempts to concentrate funding on high priority
projects.
2.9.   Resource allocation and target setting: There are few Ministries where there is a clear
linkage between policy goals; division or unit objectives, and detailed goals operation targets in
the field. There is also little monitoring of actual outputs in terms of improved service delivery to
Kenya's citizens, and there is no systematic way to determine what services are desired. Finally,
the resources devoted to particular objectives are often not monitored, and hence difficult to
control.  Consequently, the overall efficiency of Ministries as policy setting and executing
agencies is reduced.
3 The original mandate of the Management Services function in the Directorate of Personnel management - to
properly organize and structure Ministries/Departments - appears to have been overlooked.
4 i.e. the computerized system for recording staff hiring, promotions, departures, salary and benefit levels, etc..



- 5 -
(iii)   Personnel Management and Development
2.10.  Personnel Management Framework: The personnel management function is currently
divided among several agencies.5 Several reviews since the 1970s have highlighted weaknesses in
personnel management practices, in particular the handling of recruitment, promotion and
training. The key body - the Directorate of Personnel Management (DPM) - needs to strengthen
links with Ministry personnel departments and the Public Services Commission.  Personnel
management techniques need updating to reflect best international practice.
2.11.  Performance Appraisal System:   The current performance appraisal system  was
introduced in 1972 following the Ndegwa Commission Report of 1970. Despite revisions in the
1980 senior officers are not set specific objectives for the reporting period and tend to be rated
more on their personal attributes rather than their performance. The system does not adequately
monitor and record factors such as knowledge of job, quality and quantity of work, initiative,
ability to learn and judgment. Senior officers are not trained adequately in using the system, and
until recently, the appraisal system for civil servants below Job Group G had fallen into disuse.
The PSC does not appear to use performance appraisal results when making promotion decisions.
2.12. Competing Private Business Interests: The 1970 Ndegwa Commission Report allowed
civil servants to be involved in private business so long as such business did not interfere with
their civil service work. However, because of the decline in the Central Government salaries and
the rising cost of living, there has been temptation for the civil servants to spend more of their
time in private business and therefore to devote less time to their official duties.
2.13. Disciplinary framework: Civil servants are governed by the revised Code of Regulations
issued in July 1992. 6 Although the Public Service Commission (PSC) has overall responsibility
for implementing the associated Rules of Conduct, enforcement has generally lacked diligence,
speed and equity. Overcentralization has meant officers are not disciplined at Ministry level, and
may  simply be transferred to other units. New powers to discipline lower grade staff have
recently been delegated by PSC, but it is too early to judge the effectiveness of this.
2.14. Training and manpower development for the service has over the period tended to rely
increasingly on donor financing, while the training of technicians and other specialized cadres
necessary for efficient operations appears to have slackened. The main government training
institutes are restricted in their financial and management autonomy. They tend to offer longer
specialized courses rather than short general management courses which may better reflect current
5 The Directorate of Personnel Management; the Public Services Commission; the Judicial Service Commission;
operating Ministries and Departments, and the Provincial and District personnel branches.
6 This was the first revision since 1963. The major issues covered include absences, debt, criminal proceedings,
improper use of stores, disciplinary proceedings, misuse of funds, acceptance of presents, contact with the
press, participation in politics, suspensions, probation and retirement.



-6 -
civil service needs. Once specialist lecturers leave, current civil service salary levels are too low
to attract replacements.
(iv)   Pay and Benefits
2. 15. Wage Erosion: Average earnings for civil servants are well behind private sector and
parastatal organizations. Average real earnings for civil servants have declined substantially over
the past two decades, and for the lower levels is below a "living wage" based on current price
levels. Absolute salary levels and the slow progression between levels do not provide the right
kind of incentives to attract, motivate and retain high caliber staff
2.16. Allowances and Non-monetary Benefits: The current system of allowances covering,
inter alia, medical expenses and housing contains a number of anomalies and inequities. In
particular, some officers occupying a government house have been unfairly advantaged. The large
number of prime site poorly maintained government houses has also distorted the property
market. Efforts to dispose of part of the government housing stock have been limited.
B.    Recent Developments
2.17. The Civil Service Reform Program and Action Plan developed by Government in May
1992 is planned to last over a five to ten year period, and has three principal objectives:
*  improve financial viability in the short and medium term;
-  reverse the progressive decline in efficiency and productivity; and
*  strengthen capacity.
2.18.  The immediate priority is to improve financial viability by containing the size of the civil
service. This is because of the large destabilizing impact of the wage bill on the fiscal deficit and
the economy in general. The longer term strategic vision includes a rationalized organization
structure with ministries and departments having fewer, more clearly defined functions; effective
decentralization of service delivery, including traditional ministry structures and contractual
arrangements with the private sector; fewer but better paid staff under dynamic management, and
with strong ethics, quality and public service orientation.
2.19.  In line with these priorities, the detailed program comprises three phases. In Phase I the
priority will be on cost containment, through introduction of a Voluntary Early Retirement
Scheme (VERS) and associated rationalization of staffing; improved establishment control;
rationalization of selected core ministries; and pay reform. In Phase II, the priority will be on
performance improvement including development of performance targets and systems; extensive
training programs, additional improvements in personnel management; the expansion of
performance-based pay in selected departments; further ministerial rationalization, and a
continuation of the VERS. Phase III will consist of refinement and consolidation of these gains,
and introduction of more sophisticated management techniques including increased financial and
management delegation.



- 7 -
(i)    Rationalization of staffing and improved establishment control
•   design, approval and execution of a Voluntary Early Retirement Scheme and
budgeting of K Sh I billion for the first (partial) year for the civil service; almost 6000
civil servants were retired by the end of FY94;
*   design and delivery of training programs to all 6,000 retirees to prepare them for work
outside the civil service,
*   receipt of over 9,000 new VERS applications in CSRS for FY95, and a budget
commitment of K Sh 1.754 billion for an expected 14,000 retirees in FY95,
*   tightening of the recruitment freeze for grades A-G introduced in 1991. Over the
period I January 1994 to 30 June 1994 this freeze, combined with natural wastage and
the VERS, has reduced the total civil service complement by almost 9,000 from
261,727 to 252,440,
*   elimination of 22,000 establishment positions from the total approved establishment
for FY94;
*   introduction of the New Personal Identification Number (PIN) for civil servants, to
assist in improving establishment control and maintenance of payroll integrity including
elimination of ghost workers and ghost payments. This number is shortly to be linked
to the existing Income Tax PIN; and
*   formation of a new inter-ministerial Task Force on deployment and redeployment, to
design and implement mechanisms to improve the distribution and flow of personnel
between Ministries, Provinces, and Districts. This is particularly important during the
VERS exercise.  The Task Force will also look at the ratio of Operations and
Maintenance (O&M) and Personnel Emoluments (PE) in the recurrent budget.
(ii)   Compensation Reforms
.  establishment of a new inter-ministerial Task Force on Motivation, which has
completed a major draft review covering compensation practices, performance
appraisal incentive rewards, personnel management, housing divestiture and the code
of ethics for civil servants; and
*  preliminary steps towards decompressing pay scales and monetizing some benefits.



- 8 -
(iii)   Rationalization of Ministries
*  reduction of government ministries from 30 to 22 in January 1993; and
*  identification of the five ministries to be rationalized during the first year of the
program, and commencement of preparatory work.
(vi)   Staff Development
*  preparation of plans to restructure the Kenya Institute of Administration (KIA) the
premier civil service training institute in Kenya into an autonomous and financially
independent body,
*  establishment of an Inter-Ministerial Task Force on Training and Capacity Building;
and
*  preparation of new civil service training policies to make provision of training truly
demand-driven, including the decentralized training budgets controlled at the
ministerial level.
2.20. Overall, the VERS is probably the most visible of the GOK's civil service reform efforts.
The goal is to retrench at least 48,000 civil servants over three years (inclusive of regular retirees
and natural attrition). Towards the end, the GOK has indicated it will devote K Sh 1.75 billion (in
constant 1994 Kenya shillings) for each of the three years of the program to finance about 10,000
early retirees annually (it is anticipated that around 6,000 retirees will leave the civil service
annually under the normal retirement schedule and their pensions are financed as part of the
regular budget).
2.2 1. There has been concern over the high level of payment to some individuals leaving the
service, particularly those with very long service records who would be retiring in any event. The
government is currently examining ways of keeping the average payment low and restricting
higher benefit packages. There has also been concern that certain Ministries are eliminating staff
without eliminating the associated posts, and might for example retrench almost all their drivers,
then find themselves short six months later and need to recruit. A number of devices, including a
well publicized tightening of the recruitment freeze, elimination of all surplus establishment
positions, and examination of redeployment opportunities inside and between Ministries are in
hand to prevent this. It is also the intention of GOK routinely to abolish posts along with VERS
retrenchment in the future. Ministries are also being asked not to retire staff in critical areas (i.e.
"ring-fence" these critical areas), and application forms which are signed by the ministry personnel
officer are also scrutinized by CSRS. An Actuarial Study of the VERS (also referred to as the
capping study) has been contracted in order to refine the VERS formula and improve the cost
effectiveness of the VERS.  Press reports on the first batch of early retirement packages
processed through CSRS suggest than VERS is operating relatively smoothly and fairly.



- 9 -
2.22. Government is also pursuing reform at the Ministerial level through establishment of
Ministerial Reform Committees, and selection of five targets Ministries for particular attention
(Health, Finance; Public Works and Housing; Lands and Settlements; and Land Reclamation,
Regional and Water Development). These Committees are concentrating in the first instance on
the VERS and have made significant progress in this area. Meanwhile the Ministry of Health has
made substantial progress in developing overall reform programs and improving its staff
information and control systems
2.23. The high level of activity under the CSRP has attracted some support from donors. In
particular, the ODA has agreed to continue its ongoing support for the Kenya Institute of
Administration, and has made an in principle commitment to fund about US$8.0 million of the
costs of the VERS scheme. In addition, they will provide support for a long-term advisor at
CSRS and assist in the Ministry of Health restructuring effort.
IH. THE PROJECT
A.    Project Objectives
3.1   The main project objectives will be:
a)    To achieve an overall rationalization of staffing and improved establishment
control leading to better resource allocation, forward planning, productivity
improvements and cost-effective delivery of services;
b)    To introduce wide-ranging compensation reforms resulting in a simplified and
more transparent grading structure, better aligned to the external markets, and
with better pay relativities,
c)    To  introduce better personnel management practices to  obtain better
performance from existing staff and attract high quality recruits into the service;
d)    To improve opportunities for staff development through better planning and
delivery of training by the Management Development Division of DPM and other
government bodies.
e)    To commence rationalization of five target Ministries to achieve quantifiable
improvements in service delivery to Kenya's citizens.



- 10 -
B.      Summary Project Description
3.2     The project will support Phase I of the Government's Civil Service Reform  Program,
which focuses on cost containment. ' The project consists of five components, each relating
directly to the objectives above. Work on the first three components (rationalization of staffing
and improved establishment control; compensation reforms, and personnel management reform)
will be led by CSRS. Work on staff development will be led by the Manpower Development
Division of the DPM, supported by Government Training Institutes (largely supported by the
British Overseas Development Administration). Work on rationalization the five target Ministries
(which also involves elements of staffing and improved establishment control, and personnel
management reform) will be led by the Ministerial Reform Committees in each Ministry,
supported by CSRS and the MCS division in the Directorate of Personnel Management. The
relationship of these main components and institutions involved is set out in Table 1 below.
TABLE 1:    KENYA Civil Service Reform Program
Relationship of Project Components and main Executing Agencies
Components                                  Main Beneficiaries (1)
Civil Service        Reform            Management
Reform Secretariat    Committees          Development
l______________________________________ ____________________ ___________________    Institutes (2)
A. Rationalization of Staffing and           X                  (X)
Improved Establishment Control
B. Compensation Reforms                      X
C. Personnel Management                      X                  (X)
D. Staff Development                         (X)                (X)                  X
E. Rationalization of Target Ministries                          X
Note (1) All beneficiaries report through to the National Steering Committee for Civil Service Reform.
Note (2) Component supported by ODA for KIA. Other beneficiaries may Include the Government Training
Institute at MombasaL
X Main beneflciary
(X) Supporting initiatives organized by other beneflciaries
3.3     The Project's main components are outlined below (for a more detailed Project Workplan,
see Annex II).
(i)     Rationalization of Staffing and Improved Establishment Control
short-term assistance in improving the design of the VERS, including a review of costs
and benefits;
7 Phases II and III of the program deal with performance improvement and consolidation of gains respectively,
and are shown in more detail in Annex I. These phases may or may not be assisted by a follow-on IDA project.



- 11 -
*  short-term assistance in developing an overall structure for establishment and payroll
control to ensure staff reductions achieved through VERS can be sustained;
*  definition, development and introduction of a major new Integrated Personnel &
Payroll Database system for the entire civil service; and
*  a long-term resident advisor will work at CSRS to advise on these initiatives, and give
additional assistance on all other project components below.
(ii)   Compensation Reforms
*  a comprehensive review of pay and benefits, grading, policies and procedures, and job
evaluation techniques, leading to full implementation of an improved structure;
* a detailed study on how the Government should move away from the practice of
housing civil servants, and assistance in achieving this,
-  implementation of performance related pay, or an alternative system, to improve
motivation on a pilot basis; and
- development and roll-out of a pilot "High Flyers Scheme" to attract and retain high
caliber staff.
(iii) Personnel Management
- development of an overall human resource strategy and training in change
management techniques for key groups;
*  review of central personnel management organization and procedures, including
options for decentralization; and
*  development and introduction of a modern performance appraisal system for both
senior and junior grades;
(iv)   Staff Development
support to the Kenya Institute of Administration to help it become an efficient,
autonomous provider of high quality market-oriented training courses. Work will
include appointment of consultants to develop the institute's new contractual
relationship with government; review its structure, course portfolio, and range of
services; assist in costing courses and improving financial management, and
attachments of staff to other international training institutes;



- 12 -
limited support to the Government Training Institute at Mombasa to support training
of early retirees under the VERS. This support will be provided pending GOK's
submission of a needs assessment and a financial plan satisfactory to IDA.
*  execution of intensive specialist training programs, involving courses in Kenya and
abroad, for key staff in CSRS, DPM, the PSC and the Reform Committees.
(v)   Rationalization of Target Ministries
•  support to rationalization programs in the five target key ministries (Health; Finance;
Lands and Settlements; Public Works and Housing; Land Reclamation, Regional and
Water Development,
* Ministerial programs will typically start with an organizational review, either starting
from scratch, or (in the case of Health) building on what has recently been done, and
assisting in design and execution of detailed implementation programs. This work will
be combined with a review of personnel management structures and practices,
including an upgrading of the personnel management function. This will later link with
central initiatives run by CSRS to update job descriptions, regrade posts and introduce
a new performance appraisal system;
*  in parallel, work will commence on establishment control, through building interim
MIS systems to improve monitoring of staff numbers, and tightening recruitment
procedures to preserve gains from the VERS. 8 This will lead into wider studies and
implementation assistance on staffing norms, based on the new organization structure.
Work on development of performance targets will follow this, aiming to build an
integrated system with top-level policy objectives leading down to creation of detailed
service delivery plans;
s each Ministry will also undertake between two and three Management Reviews of
significant functions or units, comprising analysis of the units' performance, and
implementation of recommended changes; and
*  a long-term advisor will work with CSRS to advise on these initiatives.
3.4   In addition to these components, the project will directly support CSRS and related
Reform Committees through provision of equipment and logistical support.
C.    Government Commitment
3.5.  Govemment of Kenya has already demonstrated considerable commitment through the
rapid Program start-up described above. Within one year of setting up CSRS very significant
8 Within three years these will be combined into the new IPPD database run from the Ministry of Finance.



- 13 -
progress has been made on the VERS exercise, and Government has agreed to fund the bulk of
costs for this. Other initiatives have been launched in most of the other program areas. The
Government's Letter of Sectoral Policy outlines further policy reforms to be implemented in the
near future (see Annex XI).
D.    Institutional Arrangements
3.6.   The project has three principal beneficiaries, each responsible for a specific component as
outlined above. The Executing Agency is the Civil Service Reform Secretariat.
*  Civil Service Reform Secretariat, established by Government in August 1993 as the
primary vehicle for management of the Civil Service Reform Program;
•  Ministerial, Provincial and District Reform  Committees in the five target
Ministries (Finance, Health, Public Works, Lands and Settlements, and Water
Development) which have been established to spearhead reform in each Ministry; and
* Management Development Institutes, including KIA and the Government Training
Institute in Mombasa for the purpose of training early retirees.
3.7.   All these beneficiaries report to the National Steering Committee (NSC) for Civil
Service Reform. NSC answers to the Cabinet and is responsible for the overall guidance of the
Civil Service Reform program and development of general strategy. The NSC Chairman is the
Secretary to Cabinet and the Secretary is the Director of CSRS.
Civil Service Reform Secretariat (CSRS)
3.8.   During August 1993, CSRS was launched as the primary vehicle to manage the Reform
Program under the direction of the NSC. At the launch, the Minister of State defined the
activities of the Secretariat as:
(a)    setting up the machinery for implementing the early retirement program in close
consultation with all ministries concerned through ministerial advisory committees;
(b)    carefully monitoring the complement of staff according to job groups so as to
eliminate overlaps and idleness in all sectors,
(c)    studying the civil service wage bill and developing ways of curbing waste and
misuse of funds through improper payments and claims;
9 NSC members comprise the Permanent Secretaries of Provincial Administration and Internal Security; Office
of the Vice President and Ministry of Planning and National Development; Ministry of Education; Ministry of
Local Government; Ministry of Labor and Manpower Development; the Secretary of Public Service
Commission; and the Solicitor General.



- 14 -
(d)   developing budgetary proposals for acquisition of necessary equipment to improve
productivity in the civil service; and
(e)    advising the minister-in-charge of the Directorate of Personnel Management
(DPM) on appropriate short-term in-service training needs which would improve
supervision capacity in the civil service and increase skills and motivation among
staff
3.9.  CSRS is housed in DPM in the Office of the President but is accountable directly to NSC
through the Permanent Secretary, DPM in his capacity as the Vice-Chairman of NSC (see Annex
V, page 1). In many respects, therefore, CSRS is, for administrative purposes, operating as a
Department of DPM.
3.10.  Within CSRS, operational units are organized according to the tasks detailed in its TOR
(see Annex V, page 2). CSRS works in conjunction with reform committees which are located in
the ministries, provinces and districts. On policy issues, these reform committees are directly
accountable to the NSC (see Annex V, page 3). The staff of the Secretariat are all full time civil
servants.
Ministerial, Provincial and District Reform Committees (MRCs, PRCs and DRCs)
3. 11. Ministerial, Provincial and District Reform Committees have been established in all
Government Ministries to lead initiatives falling under the Civil Service Reform Program. There
are similar organizations at Provincial and District level. The Reform Committees report through
the Secretary of the National Steering Committee. They are typically chaired by the Permanent
Secretary, with the Director of Personnel and other Directors and Deputy Directors as members.
3.12. Their Terms of Reference include publicizing and creating an enabling environment for
the Civil Service Reform program; processing VERS applications; monitoring staffing levels;
drawing up personnel planning and development strategies, and identifying areas for additional
O&M spend possible through personnel budget savings.
3 13 CSRS has run an extensive briefing campaign for Ministerial, Provincial and District
Reform Committees including numerous regional visits, from early 1994. The MIRCs have made
variable progress in the different Ministries. They have generally focused on the VERS scheme as
their top priority, but some are now developing strategies for personnel planning and training, as
required by their TOR.
Management Development Institutes
3.14. Training of civil servants will form an integral part of the Reform Program as ministries
are rationalized and reoriented. At present, training is supply-driven and is focused on neither the
organization's nor the individual's need. The Government has recognized this and intends to
delegate training budgets to individual ministries. Once ministries have undertaken their own
training needs analysis exercises, they will be able to select courses from the most appropriate



- 15 -
provider, depending upon which provider supplies courses most closely tailored to their needs.
This reallocation of resources to the user of the service should shift the emphasis from supply-
driven training to demand-driven training.
3. 15. The most significant potential provider is the Kenya Institute of Administration (KIA), at
present the premier provider of civil service training in Kenya. Legislation is currently in hand to
give KIA new status as an autonomous Executive Agency (one of the first in Kenya). This should
help it operate more commercially, offering courses to the private sector, and paying market rates
for teaching staff ODA has been working closely with KIA for some time and will fund the
majority of support under the project, including redundancy packages for staff to be potentially
laid off
3.16. Another provider to receive more limited assistance under the project is the Government
Training Institute at Mombasa in order to support training of early retirees. Support to the
Government Training Institute at Mombasa will be provided by the Bank and coordinated through
CSRS.
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT
A.    Project Costs
4.1.   Total project costs including the VERS are estimated at about $156.98 million (excluding
taxes and duties, from which the project is exempt). The estimated foreign exchange component
is estimated at 14 percent of total cost. Base cost estimates are in July 1994 prices. The costs by
project component are set out in Table 2.
4.2.  Contingencies. Contingencies of US$14.14 million (10% of base costs) are composed of
five percent for price contingencies and five percent for physical contingencies.  The price
contingencies are based on an average international inflation rate of 2.2 percent per year for the
duration of the project. Physical contingencies allow for increases in real resource requirements in
goods, consultancies and training.
4.3.  Government Counterpart Funds.  The proposed IDA credit of US$25.35 million
equivalent will finance 16% of project costs net of duties and taxes over a three year period. The
local contribution made by Government will be approximately US$120.93 million during the
project's life. The Government has committed to provide an annual injection of about US$40
million (equivalent in Kenyan shillings) towards project cost.
4.4.  Parallel Financing. Parallel financing of about US$10.7 is expected to be obtained from
ODA, principally to support a long-term advisor in CSRS, inputs into the Kenya Institute of
Administration, and a contribution to the VERS exercise. In addition, ODA will also provide
support for a long-term advisor at CSRS and assist in the Ministry of Health restructuring effort.
Support to KIA includes technical assistance and refurbishment of facilities and will be appraised



- 16-
TABLE 2: Cost by Project Component
(USS mrllions)
Local            Fordegn                Total                % Forel n
VERS   a                                                        113.0                                    113.0                  0%
A. Rationalization of StalMng & Improved Est. Control
-Technical Assistance Studies                                    0.10              0.40                  0.50                   80%
-Long 'erm Advisor  bi                                           0.00              0.43                  0.43                   100%
-Integrated Personnel & Payroll Database                         0.10              1.70                  1.80                   94%
-Staffing norms Staff redeployment                               0.60              0.90                   1.50                  60%
-Training of Retirees                                            0.10              0.90                  1.00                   90%
-Computersi Vehicles                                             1.50              2.39                  3.89                   61%
Sub-total                                                       2.40              6.72                  9.12                   74%
B. Compensation Refonms
- 'I'cchnical Assistance Studies                                 0.20              1.91                  2.11                   91%
Sub-total                                                      0.20               1.91                  2.11                  91%
C. Persornnel Management
- 'ecchnical Assistance Studies                                  0.09              0.70                  0.79                   89%
- Computers for PSC Staff                                        0.05              0.00                  0.05                    0%
Sub-total                                                      0.14               0.70                  0.84                  83%
D. Staff Development
- Support to Key Mgt. Training Institutes                        0.20              0.70                  0.90                   78%
- Kenya Institute of Administration  bt                          0.10              1.20                  1.30                   92%
- 'I'mg. & Cap. Bldg. - CSRS                                     0.04              0.16                  0.20                   80%
- Tmg. & Cap. Bldg. - MRCs, PRCs & DRCs                          0.24              0.96                   1.20                  80%
- '1mg & Cap. Bldg. - PSC                                        0.03              0.12                  0.15                   80%
-'I'mg. & Cap. Bldg. - DPM                                       0.03              0.12                  0.15                   80%
- Computers, E'quipment/Office Supplies  cl                      0.10              0.36                  0.46                   78%
Sub-total                                                      0.74              3.62                   4.36                  83%
E. Rationalization of Target Nlinistrfies
Ministry ofHealth  d '
- 'echnical Assistance Studies                                   0.60              0.90                  1.50                   60%
- Computers/1.quipment                                           0.08              0.10                  0.18                   56%
Sub-total                                                      0.68               1.00                  1.68                  60%
Ali nistry of l;nance
- Technical Assistance Studies                                   0.22              2.00                  2.22                   90%
'I'raining and Capacity Building
- ComputerstEquipment                                            0.05              0.10                  0.15                   67%
Sub-total                                                      0.27              2.10                  2.37                   890/.
Ministry of Public Works
- 'Technical Assistance Studies                                  0.21              0.98                  1.19                   82%
- Computers/Equipment                                            0.06              0.00                  0.06                   0%
Sub-total                                                      0.27              0.98                   1.25                  78%
Ai nistry ofl.ands
- 'Iechnical Assistance Studies                                  0.21              0.98                  1.19                   82%
- Computers Equipment                                           0.05               0.00                  0.05                   0%
Sub-total                                                      0.26              0.98                   1.24                  79%
Ministry of Water D)evelopmnenr
- Technical Assistance Studies                                  0.20               0.97                  1.17                   83%
- Ciomputers'.Equipment                                         0.05               0.00                  0.05                   0%
Sub-total                                                      0.25              0.97                   1.22                  80%
- Iroject Management Costs  el                                  4.22               0.00                  4.22                   0%
TOTAI BASE COST                                               122.43              18.98                141.41                  13%
Contingencies(10%.)  f                                          12.24              1.90                  14.14                  13%
Repayment of PPF Advance                                                           1.43                  1.43                  100%
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                              134.67            22.31                 156.98                  14%
(a)   N 11 Government budget commitmentto VERS, in real terTns, is K Sh 1.75 billion shillings peryearforthree years. Exchange rate used is
K Sh 50  USS1.00. In addition, ODA plans to support VERS with S8.0 million in grant Contributions.
(b)   Component to be funded bv O)DA.
(c)   Off-cc supplies include requirements for basic CSRS operations. Local travel will be financed under this component.
(d)   ODA has been requested to suppon the review of the Ministry of Health.
(e)   P'roject Management Costs (mostly CSRS staffsalaries and overheads) to be paid for by GOK.
(f)   Contingencies based on forecasted inflation rates of an average of 2.2 percent per annum, yielding an overall price contingency of about five
percent over the life of the project, plus an additional five percent for physical contingencies.



- 17 -
in detail following the passage of relevant legislation by Parliament. Financial support to the
VERS exercise is subject to agreement over conditions, and will also meet the cost of a resident
CSR Adviser.
B.    Project Implementation
4.5   The overall management structure for implementation and supervision of the project is
shown in Annex III. The primary focus will be on existing Government staff and structures -
DPM, CSRS, the Reform Committees, and the Management Development Institutes. These units
have already demonstrated implementation capacity in starting to push through an aggressive
timetable for the complex VERS exercise.
4.6.   Government structures will be supplemented by extensive use of local and foreign
consultants to provide specialist skills, and additional analytic and implementation capacity. The
local consulting market is relatively well developed, and it is anticipated that local firms, or
combinations of local and international firms, will be able to bid for a significant number of
assignments. For areas where very specialist skills or complex project management experience is
required, international firms may be preferred. Draft TORs for all assignments over the three year
project period are set out Section 5 in the Implementation Manual. These are likely to need
refinement by the beneficiaries to take account of circumstances immediately prior to issue.
4.7.  Overall Coordination, Administration  and  Supervision.        Coordination  and
supervision of project components will be the responsibility of the National Steering Committee
and the CSRS. The CSRS is the principal administrative unit supporting the National Steering
Committee and its Director will be designated as the Government of Kenya's Task Manager for
the project.  Further, an accounts section will be established at CSRS to provide the
administrative support for the project. Expertise from the Ministry of Finance will be sought to
staff this new accounts section to ensure that individuals with IDA project experience are readily
available.
4.8.  To ensure integration with other projects (e.g., the parastatal reform  credit), IDA
supervision for both this project and related activities will be undertaken by the same Task
Manager.  There will be particular need to coordinate with ODA  regarding the training
component, where ODA is financing the bulk of support to KIA and IDA is providing relatively
minor assistance to two other institutions. The Resident Mission and other donors would be
included in supervision activities as appropriate.
4.9.   The project will depend on the close co-ordination between CSRS and the other
beneficiary institutions. Particularly close linkages will need to be established with DPM (with
whom CSRS are already working closely) to ensure skills required for the Compensation Reform
component and the Ministerial rationalization tasks are available centrally. In addition, close links
with the Ministry of Finance will be needed to ensure that adequate amounts are budgeted for the
VERS exercise, that the IPPD development takes full account of civil service needs; and that



- 18 -
budgeting and establishment control reforms are coordinated between target Ministries and the
Budget Division of the Ministry of Finance.
4.10. The CSRS will be supported by the credit (US$25.35 million) with the Secretariat's main
responsibilities being to handle administrative aspects of (i) recruitment and employment of
consultants, individuals as well as firms; (ii) procurement of goods, computers, vehicles, office
equipment, (iii) management of project accounts and special accounts, including preparation and
presentation of withdrawals and replenishment applications for the credit proceeds; and (iv)
ensuring the semi-annual reports are prepared, discussed by the National Steering Committee, and
then forwarded to IDA.
4.11. Regarding procurement for other beneficiaries (the Reform Committees, and key training
institutes) this will be organized through CSRS. To ensure adequate ownership of the program, it
is recommended that the Reform Committees have majority voting on panels to finalize TORs and
select consultancies, and make proposals for procurement of goods and other items to CSRS. To
ensure consistency across the program, procurements would need a "no objection" from CSRS,
although it is not anticipated that this would be exercises often. Procurement for KIA will be
managed by ODA using its own procedures.
4.12. To assist in detailed task execution, an Implementation Plan has been prepared by CSRS
as part of project preparation activities.  This Manual contains: all agreed procedures; e.g.
standard letter of invitation package, detailed costs breakdowns; draft TORs for studies and
consultancies; listings of agreed procurement needs, formats for quarterly reporting; and annual
work plans/programs.
C.    Financing Plan
4.13. The proposed IDA credit of about US$25.35 million is equivalent to about 16% of total
project costs, net of duties and taxes.  The foreign and local costs, and the Government's
contribution to the project are outlined in the budget and financing plan. The proposed financing
plan for the project is set out in Table 3. ODA has stated its commitment to fund major portions
of the restructuring of KIA along with a long term technical advisor at CSRS and assistance to
VERS.
4.14. The credit will refinance the PPF upon effectiveness. The Government's contribution to
the project will finance the bulk of the VERS payments and salaries of CSRS staff and overheads.
These expenditures will not recur after project completion and will, therefore, not represent
incremental budgetary expenditures.  This approach will minimize implementation problems
otherwise arising from the splitting of invoices between the Bank and the Borrower.



- 19 -
TABLE 3: Financing Plan (Life of Project)
(US$ million)
Project Element of IDA           IDA        ODAI/        GOKI/        TOTAL3/           %/IDA
A. VERS scheme                                 8.00       105.00       113.00             0%
B. Training                       3.08         1.30        0.52          4.90           63%
C. Consulting Services           13.97         0.43                     14.40           97%
D. Equipment/Computers/           4.34                     0.18          4.52           96%
Office Supplies
E. Vehicles                       0.36                     0.01          0.37           97%
F. Project Management Cost                                 4.22          4.22            0%
Unallocated                       2.17         0.97 4/    10.99          14.14           15%
Repayment of PPF Advance          1.43                                    1.43         100%
TOTAL   3/                       25.35        10.70      120.93        156.98           16%
I/ ODA plans to support inputs to KIA and the VERS exercise subject to agreement over conditions.
2/ As attached to the Aide Memoire following appraisal.
3/ Numbers may not sum exactly due to rounding discrepancies.
4/ Funds will support Ministry of Health restructuring.
D.    Procurement
4.15. Procurement under the credit would cover the cost of goods, consultant services for
technical assistance, studies and training (net of taxes). The estimated detailed costing of goods,
equivalent to US$5.38 million will include computer equipment, including a major mainframe
development at the Ministry of Finance, and a small number of vehicles and their incremental
operating costs. IDA funding of about US$18.76 million is expected to finance consulting
services, and training.
4.16. All consultants financed by the Credit would be hired in accordance with IDA's guidelines
on the employment of consultants. Co-financed consultants are expected to have specific terms of
reference with verifiable goals to be achieved, in the same way as those financed by IDA. Draft
terms of reference for all major consultant contracts financed by the credit were discussed and
confirmed during appraisal. Procurement arrangements are presented in Table 4.



- 20 -
TABLE 4: Amounts and Methods of Procurement (Life of Project)
Project Element                     Procurement Method in US$ millions 1/
Total Cost                       (IDA-financed portion in pare ntheses)
ICB           LCB          Other        GOK         Total Cost
A. Goods: Equipment/                3.24         1.31           0.83                       5.38
Computers/ Vehicles/            (3.24)      (1.21)         (0.72)                      (5.17)
Office Supplies
B. Consulting Services                                         15.84                      15.84
(15.37)                    (15.37)
C. Training                                                    5.39                        5.39
(3.39)                     (3.39)
D. Project Management Cost                                                    4.64         4.64
(0.00)       (0.00)
Total Procurement                   3.24         1.31         22.06           4.64        31.25
(3.24)      (1.21)        (19.48)         (0.00)      (23.93)
E  Repayment of PPF                                             1.43                        1.43
(1.43)                     (1.43)
F. VERS Scheme                                                  8.80        115.50       124.30
I ____________________________  I ________  I ____________     (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
Total Project Cost 2/               3.24 |       1.31         32.29         120.14       156.98
l __________________________ _ l    (3.24)      (1.21)        (20.91)         (0.00)      (25.35)
1/ Including contingency.
2/ Numbers may not sum exactly due to rounding discrepancies.
4.17. World Bank Guidelines will be followed for procurement of goods and consultants and
experts for technical assistance. Bank standard bidding documents will be used. At negotiations
IDA and Government agreed on standard procurement times (see Implementation Manual,
Section 3.1.3).
4.18. Prior Review. All consulting contracts and procurement of goods above US$50,000 will
be subject to prior review. Consulting contracts to individuals above US$25,000 will be subject
to prior review. More than 80% of the credit will be subject to prior review.
Method of Procurement
(a)    Contracts for computers, vehicles and office equipment whose contract value is
equivalent to US$170,000 or less can be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding, up to an aggregate limit of $1.31 million in accordance with World Bank
guidelines.  LCB  procedures would include public advertisement, public bid
opening, clearly stated evaluation criteria, award to the lowest evaluated bidder,
foreign bidders, if interested, will not be precluded from participation. The first
LCB document for goods will be reviewed prior to issuance to the bidders.



- 21 -
(b)   International or local shopping (i.e. contracts awarded on the basis of a
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers) will be
undertaken for items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of less than US$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$750,000.
Off-the-shelf shopping may be used as many items will need to be procured in
small amounts over the life of the project.
(c)   Consulting services will be procured on the basis of a short-list. It is estimated that
under US$12 million will be provided by international firms and at least US$2.5
million will be provided by local firms. As provided for in the World Bank
Guidelines on the Use of (Consultanis by World Batnk Borrowers and by The
World Bank as Executing Agenicy (August 1981), "the Bank encourages
borrowers to employ domestic consulting firms in connection with Bank-financed
projects where such firms are qualified to perform the work either alone or in
combination with foreign firms." There are several qualified Kenyan consultants,
and both the GOK and IDA are in agreement that their services should be
employed wherever possible. For areas where very special skills or complex
project management experience is required, international firms may be contracted,
but these firms will be encouraged to subcontract work to local firms wherever
possible. It is also expected that a great deal of training will be procured locally.
(d)   Training: Members of CSRS and MRCs will undertake training both domestically
and internationally. Their annual training plans will be submitted to IDA, as part
of the annual project workplans, indicating participants, courses, venues, durations
and costs.
E.    Disbursements
4.19. The fully implemented IDA credit would be disbursed over three years with the largest
disbursements expected in the second year of the Project.  The Project is expected to be
completed by October 31, 1997. The project closing date would be April 30, 1998. A detailed
disbursement schedule and anticipated disbursement profile are given in Annex IX.
4.20. Disbursements would be made against standard IDA documentation with the following
exceptions, for which certified statements of expenditures (SOEs) would be used: (i) contracts
for goods and services costing less than US$50,000 equivalent; (ii) consultant services for
individuals costing less than $25,000 and firms $50,000; (iii) all in-country seminars (training
courses, and (iv) all performance and field allowances. SOEs would be certified by the head of
accounts department in DPM. These would be subject to review by supervision missions and
annual audits (para. 4.22).



- 22 -
F.    Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
4.21.  Special Accounts. In order to facilitate the availability of funds for the Project when
needed, Special Account would be established in a commercial bank and operated and maintained
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.  An initial deposit of US$2.0 million will be
deposited by IDA into the Special Account. The Special Account will be replenished on the basis
of satisfactory documentary evidence, to be provided to IDA, of eligible payments made from the
accounts for goods and services required for the Project.
4.22. Auditing.  The CSRS would maintain accounts and records for project activities,
including SOEs and the Special Accounts (para. 4.21) in accordance with sound accounting
practices. Assurances were obtained that the Government would establish, by the date of credit
effectiveness, a functioning accounts section within CSRS and would have the records and
accounts of the Project, including those for the Special Accounts and SOEs, audited for each
fiscal year by the Auditor General, and that it would submit the audit reports to IDA within six
months of the end of every fiscal year, with a separate opinion by the auditors on SOEs.
4.23. Reporting.   Reports on project implementation, summarizing progress achieved,
difficulties encountered and changes and adjustments to be made would be submitted twice per
year by each participating agency to the Chairman of the National Steering Committee, through
the Civil Service Reform Secretariat. The Committee would meet at least twice per year to
review progress, make appropriate decisions and assign responsibilities for any needed follow up
action. Progress reports will be submitted to the Bank. The agenda and the minutes of the
meetings would be the responsibility of the CSRS Program Director and would be transmitted to
IDA, semi-annually, after appropriate internal clearances, to assist with project supervision.
4.24. Reviews. Agreement was reached with Government that a formal mid-term review of the
project's progress will be undertaken 15 months after project effectiveness. Monitoring indicators
are shown at Annex III.
4.25. Supervision Plan.  The resources required for supervision are detailed in Annex IV.
Eight to eleven staffweeks would be required for supervision per annum.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5. 1.  A major potential issue may concern shortage of funding for the VERS exercise.
Government is committed to funding a significant element of this (as detailed above) but has its
own budget constraints, and has therefore approached donors for assistance. Additional donor
assistance might become necessary if the number of applicants exceeds the government budget
allocation for 10,000 retirees per year.



- 23 -
5.2.   The project design relies on effective co-ordination between CSRS, DPM, PSC, and the
Reform Committees. Particularly strong links are required between CSRS and the Ministry of
Finance for the Rationalization of Staffing and Improved Establishment Control component. To
date, most of these linkages appear to work reasonably well. As assistance is channeled into other
agencies, it will be important that they "buy in" to the reform process. Procurement arrangements
(where other agencies select their suppliers, subject to no objection from CSRS) are designed to
help this. This will additionally relieve CSRS of some of the management burden of controlling in
detail very many initiatives.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Benefits
6.1.  The proposed project to be financed by IDA is integral to the Government's civil service
reform strategy and complements its wider macroeconomic reforms. Specific benefits from the
project include: (a) higher productivity and more cost-effective delivery of services arising from
rationalization of staffing and better use of O&M expenditures; (b) a better motivated and higher
caliber civil service paid at nearer to market rates, (c) better deployment and movement of staff
arising from an upgraded personnel management function and improved systems for hiring,
appraising, promoting, and disciplining civil servants; (d) upgraded skills arising from improved
training capacity, more responsive to real operational needs; (e) increased decentralization, better
organization and greater focus on the needs of the customer arising from introduction of devolved
targets and performance indicators, commencing in five target Ministries; and (f) build-up of
significant reform management capacity at the center of Government (CSRS) and in the target
Ministries.
B.    Risks
6.2.    The major risk associated with the project would be an unexpected weakening of
political pressure to continue with (and adequately fund) the VERS scheme, and/or to introduce
the tough establishment control initiatives needed to ensure cost containment benefits are
maintained in the future. Government funding commitments to VERS are contained in both the
Letter of Sectoral Policy (Annex XI) and the Credit Agreement. The Government has also
committed itself through both the LSP and the Credit Agreement to eliminate all posts vacated
through the VERS (see Annex XI). Other components such as pay reform and Ministerial
rationalization will have controversial aspects needing considerable political impetus from the
National Steering Committee to drive them through.
6.3.   The main technical risks with the VERS scheme include the possibility that current
arrangements are relatively generous to some individuals, either resulting in overspending by
Government and consequent restrictions on the scheme, or very high payments arousing public
dissatisfaction. The National Steering Committee will use the recommendations of the project's
Actuarial Study (already underway, financed by the PPF) to modify the VERS formula to ensure



- 24 -
that the VERS is as cost effective as possible. Similarly, as the VERS exercise proceeds, there is
a significant risk that Ministries will retire needed skilled staff, and then seek to re-employ or
retain other individuals in these posts later, making the exercise largely futile. There is also the
risk of "double-dipping" by staff who leave, then rejoin another public institution to obtain another
package. Government is aware of these risks and is currently launching studies under the PPF to
develop practical solutions.
6.4.  There are also technical risks that the major MIS development scheduled to improve
payroll and personnel control is not completed on time, or does not operate entirely to
specification. Use of standard software packages (introduced successfully in other developing
countries) should minimize these possibilities. Finally, there is the institutional risk that personnel
or other changes weaken the ability of CSRS and other bodies leading reform to push through
initiatives. There is an associated danger that lower level bureaucrats deliberately or
unconsciously frustrate implementation, particularly in the personnel management, compensation
reform, and Ministerial rationalization components. The project contains substantial elements for
training, equipment and related items to ensure that as far as possible support is provided to help
both senior and middle level officers perform.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A.    Agreements Reached
(i)    Government submitted a draft Project Implementation Plan (see para. 4.12); and
(ii)   Government submitted to the Association a Letter of Sectoral Policy (see para.
3.05 and Annex XI).
B.    Assurances obtained during negotiations are:
(i)    Government would allocate K Sh 1.75 billion annually (in constant 1994 Kenya
shillings) in its budget for VERS (see paras. 4.03 and 4.14);
(ii)   Government would prepare semi-annual progress reports for submission to the
Association (see para. 4.23),
(iii)   Government and the Association would carry out a mid-term review of the Project
(see para. 4 24),
(iv)   Government would maintain at all times the CSRS, NSC  and the Reform
Committees (see paras. 3.6-3.13);



- 25 -
(v)   Government would maintain records and accounts and carry out audit by
independent auditors (see para. 4.22);
(vi)   Government would implement the agreed policy reforms according to the Letter of
Sectoral Policy (see Annex XI); and
(vii)  Government would implement measures, satisfactory to IDA, to ensure that
positions vacated by retirees through the VERS are eliminated and canceled from
the civil service establishment (see para. 6.2).
C.    Conditions of Effectiveness
(i)   Government would establish a functioning accounts section within CSRS with staff
in adequate numbers and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA. In
particular, the GOK will hire a chief accountant, with qualifications acceptable to
IDA (as specified in the agreed Terms of Reference - see Annex X). The accounts
section shall be a functioning entity by the date of credit effectiveness (see para.
4.22); and
(ii)   Government would furnish to IDA evidence showing that all positions already
vacated by retirees through the VERS have been eliminated and canceled from the
civil service establishment (see para. 6.2).
D.   Recommendation
On the basis of the above assurances and conditions, the proposed Institutional
Development and Civil Service Reform Project would be suitable for an IDA Credit of
SDR 17.2 million (US$25.35 million equivalent).






- 26 -
ANNEX I
DETAIL OF PHASES OF CSRP
(i) Rationalization of Staffing and Improved Establishment Control
The elements of this component will include the following:
continuing implementation of VERS to reduce staffing at grades    Phase 2
A-G by about 80,000 (cumulative with Phase I) over five years.
*   assessment of efficiency gains achieved under Phase  I-11         Phase 2-3
components in order to design and implement refinements as
necessary.
(ii) Staff Development and Personnel Management
This component of the project would include the following activities:
e  enhancement of management training and support for specific        Phase 2
training activities in critical areas.
assessment of efficiency  gains achieved  under Phase  I-II        Phase 3
components in order to design and implement refinements as
necessary.
(iii) Compensation Reforms.
This component of the project will support the following activities
*  design and testing of systems of performance based incentive       Phase 2
payment elsewhere in the civil service.
*  implementation of a decompressed scale.                            Phase 2
*  asessment of efficiency  gains achieved  under Phase  I-IL         Phase 3
components in order to design and implement refinements as
necessary.






- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page I of 4
KENYA
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND
CIVIL SERVICE REFORM PROJECT
KEY MILESTONES OF THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Components                    Beneficiary   Weeks   Letter of       Contract     Contract
Invitation      Start     Completion
A. Rationalization of Staffing
and Improved
Establishment Control
1. Actuarial and Financial  CSRS             14        8/94        10/94         12/94
Review of Costs and
Benefits of the VERS
2. Introducing Improved     CSRS             57        8/94         11/94         1/95
Establishment Control
3. Specification and        CSRS            257       12/94         3/95          6/96
Execution of Integrated
Personnel and Payroll
Database
4. Training of Retirees     CSRS                       n.a.       ongoing         3/98
5. Long-term Advisor        CSRS            144        1/95         4/95          3/98
B. Compensation Reforms
1. Review of Job Evaluation,   CSRS         176        3/95         6/95         3/96
Grading, Pay and Benefits
Policies and Procedures
2. Study on Housing for Civil  CSRS          84        6/95         9/95          6/96
Servants
3. Feasibility Study for    CSRS            24         9/95         12/95         3/96
Performance Related Pay
4. Development of Pilot     CSRS             17       12/95         3/96          6/96
"High Flyers Scheme"
C. Personnel Management
1 Development of Human      CSRS             13       12/94         3/95         6/95
Resource Strategy and
Implementation Capacity
2. Review of Personnel      CSRS             70        6/95         9/95          6/96
Management Procedures
3. Development of Revised   CSRS             30        3/96         6/96         12/96
Performance Appraisal
System



- 28 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 4
KENYA
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND
CIVIL SERVICE REFORM PROJECT
KEY MILESTONES OF THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Components                       Beneficiary   Weeks   Letter of       Contract   Contract
Invitation      Start     Completion
D. Staff Development
I Support to Key               KIA/CSRS                  12/95         3/96          3/98
Management, Training
Institutes (excluding KIA)
2. Training Programs for        CSRS/MRC/                 n.a.        ongoing        3/98
CSRS, PSC, MRC and           PSC/DPM
DPM
E. Restructuring of Target
Ministries
1. Ministry of Health
(a) Organization &           MRC           29           1/95         4/95         10/95
Personnel Management      (Health)
Review
(b) Development of            MRC           129         1/95         4/95         10/95
Staffing Norms and       (Health)
Implementation of
Establishment Control
(c) Assistance with           MRC          57           9/95         12/95         3/96
Conduct of                (Health)
Management Reviews
and Implementation
Pilots
2. Ministry of Finance
(a) Organization and          MRC          31           3/95         6/95          9/95
Personnel Management      (Finance)
Review
(b) Development of           MRC           71           3/95         6/95         12/95
Staffing Norms and        (Finance)
Implementation of
Establishment Control
(c) Revenue Authority         MRC          61           9/95         12/95         9/96
Organization Review      (Finance)
(d) Revenue Authority        MRC           50           3/96         6/96         12/96
Personnel Management      (Finance)



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
KENYA
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND
CIVIL SERVICE REFORM PROJECT
KEY MILESTONES OF THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Components                       Beneficiary   Weeks   Letter of       Contract   Contract
Invitation      Start     Completion
(e) Development of            MRC          40           3/96         6/96          9/96
Performance Targets      (Finance)
for the Revenue
Authority
(f) Assistance with           MRC          63           6/96         9/96          9/97
Conduct of                (Finance)
Management Reviews
and Implementation
Pilots
3. Ministry of Public Works
(a) Organization Review       MIRC         21           12/96        3/97          6/97
(Public
Works)
(b) Development of            MRC          59           12/96        3/97          9/97
Staffing Norms and       (Public
Implementation of         Works)
Establishment Control
(c) Assistance with           MRC          53           6/97         9/97          3/98
Conduct of                (Public
Management Reviews        Works)
and Implementation
Pilots
4. Ministry of Lands
(a) Organization Review      MRC            14          12/96        3/97          6/97
(Lands)
(b) Development of            MRC          66           12/96        3/97          9/97
Staffing Norms and       (Lands)
Implementation of
Establishment Control
(c) Assistance with           MRC          53           6/97         9/97          3/98
Conduct of                (Lands)
Management Reviews
and Implementation
Pilots



- 30 -
ANNEX If
Page 4 of 4
KENYA
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND
CIVIL SERVICE REFORM PROJECT
KEY MILESTONES OF THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Components                      Beneficiary   Weeks  Letter of      Contract   Contract
Invitation     Start     Completion
5. Ministry of Water
Development
(a) Establishment Control    MRC            10        3/97         6/97         9/97
and Personnel            (Water
Management                Devt.)



- 31-
ANNEX III
Summary of Monitoring Indicators for the Project
Major Activities        Expected Impact            Indicator of Achievement of Project     Timing
Objectives                  Targets
Rationalization of  Increase in productivity, and    Meeting VERS targets, along with net decrease  1997
Staffing and       reduction in management     in total numbers. Successful introduction of
Improved           burden of controlling surplus   IPPD at Ministry of Finance. Up-to-date
Establishment     staff. Better budgeting,     information on civil service numbers and
Control            planning and allocation of  working establishment control mechanisms.
staff resources. Resources  Increased O&M spending.
freed up for O&M spending.
Compensation       Streamline Salary and Benefit  Better pay decompression; salary levels nearer  1997
Reforms            Structure. Introduce Criteria   to the market; simplified grading structure and
Based Job Grading. Reduction  schemes of service; disposal of majority of
of inequitable benefits.    government housing stock.
Personnel          Higher quality of staff in more  Better procedures evidenced by lower staff  1997
Management         appropriate jobs, with better    turnover, improved mobility, faster promotions.
morale. Achieved through    Physical restructuring of personnel units.
improved mechanisms for     Introduction and operation of new performance
hiring, firing, promotion,  appraisal system.
appraisal, etc., and better
organization of personnel
function.
Staff Development  Training to become demand   Analysis of course portfolio, and buying habits  1997
driven encouraging enhanced   of civil service institutions. Direct feedback
quality.                    from civil servants.
Rationalization of  Improvement in service     Monitoring of new performance targets per    1997
Target Ministries   delivery in target Ministries.    Ministry, to include public surveys.
Implementation of physical reorganization at
higher levels. Implementation of
recommendations from management reviews.
Successful establishment of new Revenue
Authority.
Ongoing
Capacity Building   Strengthening of organization,  Production and implementation of aggressive
for Phases 11 and   staff and procedures in CSRS,  workplans according to the Program.
III of Reform      MRC, PSC, KIA capacity.
Program






- 32 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
SUPERVISION STRATEGY
Borrower's Contribution to Supervision:
(a)   The CSRS will submit semi-annual reports of project monitoring data to IDA in March and
September of every year.
(b)   The Accounting Unit in the CSRS will maintain up-to-date project accounts and present
summary accounts to IDA every six months.
(c)   The audits of project accounts, the Special Account and Statement of Expenditures by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA will be made available to the Bank within six
months of the close of each fiscal year.
(d)  Each implementing unit will report semi-annually to the CSRS on implementation,
including progress and delays.
(e)   By March 31, 1996, the CSRS, in consultation with the NSC, will prepare and provide to
IDA, for its approval, a plan for carrying out a Mid-Term Project Review by June 1996 in
consultation with IDA. The CSRS will, with the assistance of the implementing units, carry
out a Mid-Term Review in accordance with the agreed plan. Thereafter, Government will
promptly take all actions recommended as a result of the review that are required to
achieve project objectives.
(f)   The CSRS will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for Bank supervision missions
and for providing information required by missions.
(g)   Mission briefing meetings on arrival and wrap-up meetings before departure will normally
be chaired by the Director of CSRS.
Bank Supervision Inputs:
(a)  It is estimated that regular supervision from Washington (to review progress reports,
procurement actions, correspondence, etc.) will require five staffweeks in the first year of
the project and three staffweeks in its second year. Five staffweeks will be required for the
mid-term review with an additional five staffweeks involved in the final supervision and
preparation of the PCR. The staff time in the table that follows is in addition to the day-to-
day supervision.



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
SUPERVISION PLAN
Approximate              Activity               Expected Skills (Staffweeks)
Date
April 1995       Supervision Mission/ Project        Task Manager (1)
Launch Workshop                    CSR Specialists (2)
Legal Counsel (1)
Accountant (1)
September 1995   Supervision Mission                 Task Manager (1)
CSR Specialists (2)
January 1996     Supervision Mission                 Task Manager (I)
CSR Specialists (2)
July 1996        Mid-Term Review/                    Task Manager (1)
Supervision Mission                CSR Specialists (2)
Legal Counsel (1)
Accountant (1)
November 1996   Supervision Mission                  Task Manager (1)
CSR Specialists (2)
April 1997       Supervision Mission                 Task Manager (1)
________________                        CSR Specialists (2)
December 1997    Final Supervision Mission           Task Manager (1)
Implementation Completion          CSR Specialists (2)
Review Preparation Mission        Legal Counsel (1)
Accountant (1)



Kenya Institutional Development and Civil Service Reform Project
Management Structure for Project Implementation and Supervision
Cabinet
NSC                                      ec/Director
I                           I~~~~~P
(CSRS)                                Dearmet
Kenya In"t" of                           Public Service                         Reform Conmmittees
Administraion                             Commission                             (MRC, PRC, DRC)
Govt. Tri7n                                                                               Hesalthl
Mombasa
Finance
Land Reclamatio,Rgoa 
and Water Developmn
|Public Works and Housing_                                
|lnsadSettlernent __ 
tn m



Structure of the Civil Service Reform Secretariat
Director
Staffing                                       Principa                                     Inst ICapacity Building                                                      v]I
Deputy Program Director                        |       Accountn                                      Deputy Program Directori
Dev. Of Staffing                                      Payroll Admin                              and                              PM&                          Eval / Perforance
Norms             l                    |            & Budget           i   E            Benefits                 L          Training                          Management
|   Downsizing      0                                                                                                                                  |     OrgaoisaliOa  Reviews



Structure of the Civil Service Reform Committees
Cabinet
I
National Steering
Committee
Ministerial              Provincial                 District
CSRC  CSRC               CSRC
t ;<
pv  e
aQ 
CD ze
w4 M
O) X
I-t<



Directorate of Personnel Management
| Permanent Secretary/ 
Director
Deuty Director              Deputy Director                Deputy Director               Deputy Secretary             Programme Director|
MCS                            PA                            MD                            F & E                          CSRS      
oX
_41
Uh 



Civil Service Reform Policy Making Process
Cabinet
National Steering Committee
| Permanent Sec/Director DPM 
Other DPM Depts                                           Programme Director
(CSRS)
Staffing Deputy Prog.                  Inst. Capacity Building                                           ;
Director                         Deputy Proj. Director                                       Ouq  Z
CD 
en 
° X






- 39 -
ANNEX VI
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
NATIONAL STEERING COMMITTEE (NSC)
Terms of Reference
1.    The NSC will act as the advisory body to all implementing agencies by:
*  monitoring project implementation;
*  addressing and seeking solution to problems, that cannot be resolved through
the normal lines of command; and
*  advising the cabinet on policies and other matters related to the project
The Civil Service Reform Secretariat (CSRS) will undertake much of the detailed
background work for the NSC. The NSC answers to the Cabinet.
2.    Coordination will thus take place through the established mechanisms of the GOK.
The membership of the NSC is limited but can be expanded if necessary.
3.    The NSC meets four times per year, with additional meetings as required.
4.    Membership: The NSC Chairman is the Secretary of the Cabinet, while the NSC
secretary is the Director of CSRS. The rest of the Members are as follows:
(a)   Permanent Secretary, Provisional Administration and internal Security
(b)   Permanent Secretary of the Office of the Vice President and Ministry
of Planning and National Development
(c)   Permanent Secretary of Education
(d)   Permanent Secretary of Local Government
(e)   Permanent Secretary of Labor and Manpower Development
(f)    The Secretary of the Public Service Commission
(g)   The Solicitor General






- 40 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROVIDED BY THE PROJECT
CONTRACTUAL SERVICES
STAFFWEEKS
1. Contracts with Firms/Institutes
Single Package with One Firm
A. Rationalization of Staffing and Improved Establishment Control
1. Actuarial and Financial Review of Costs and Benefits of the VERS         14
2. Introducing Improved Establishment Control                               57
3. Specification and Execution of Integrated Personnel and Payroll Database  257
B. Compensation Reforms
1. Review of Job Evaluation, Grading, Pay and Benefits, Policies & Procedures  176
and Procedures
2.  Study of Housing for Civil Servants                                     84
3. Feasibility Study for Performance Related Pay                            24
C. Personnel Management
1. Development of Human Resource Strategy and Implementation Capacity       13
2. Review of Personnel Management Procedures                                70
3. Development of Revised Performance Appraisal System                      30
D. Restructuring of Target Ministries
1. Ministry of Health
i. Organization & Personnel Management Review                          29
ii. Development of Staffing Norms & Implementation of Established Control    129
iii. Assistance with Conduct of Mgmt. Reviews and Implementation Pilots  57
2. Ministry of Finance
i. Organization and Personnel Management Review                        31
ii. Development of Staffing Norms and Implementation of Established Control   71
iii. Revenue Authority Organization Review                               61
iv. Revenue Authority Personnel Management                               50
v. Development of Performance Targets for the Revenue Authority         40
vi. Assistance with Conduct of Mgmt. Reviews & Implementation Pilots     63
3. Ministry of Public Works
i. Organization Review                                                 21
ii. Development of Staffing Norms & Implementation of Established Control  59
iii. Assistance with Conduct of Mgmt. Reviews & Implementation Pilots    53



- 41 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 2
STAFFWEEKS
4, Alinistr of Lands'
i. Organization Review                                                   14
ii. Development of Staffing Norms & Implementation of Established Control  66
iii. Assistance with Conduct of Management Reviews & Implementation Pilots    53
5 Alinistry of Wfater Development
i. Establishment Control and Personnel Management                        10
2. Individuals
(a) Rationalization of Staffing and Improved Establishment Control
Long-Term Advisor                                                           144
(b) Compensation Reforms
Development of Pilot "High Flyers Scheme"                                    17



- 42 -
ANNEX VIII
PROCUREMENT PLAN
Project procurement will be performed on a scheduled basis as follows:
Procurement Schedule
(US$ million)
Project Element          Procurement       FY96      FY97      FY98       Total
Frequency/Year
Computer/Equipment/           2             1.30      2.50      0.90       4.70
Vehicles
Consultants Services          4             3.50      5.50      4.97      13.97
Training                    N/A             1.00      1.10      0.98       3.08
Refunding of PPF Advance    N/A             1.43      0.00      0.00       1.43
Total *                                    7.23       9.10      6.85      23.18
*   excluding contingencies and incremental operating costs.
The Borrower will submit updates to the Bank on a semi-annual basis. These
updated reports will monitor actual versus estimated procurement dates, US dollar totals by
supplier and aggregate US dollar totals by project element. The Borrower will indicate causes
of, and corrective actions to be taken, on all substantial variances and schedule delays.






- 43 -
ANNEX IX
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IDA Fiscal Year             Disbursement        Accumulated        Accumulated
and Quarter Ending         During Quarter       Disbursement    Disbursement %
- (US$ Thousand) -
FY1995
Mar. 31, 1995                      0                    0                  0
June 30, 1995                      0                    °                  °
FY1996
Sep. 30, 1995                   1,800               1,800                 07
Dec. 31, 1995                   1,900               3,700                 15
Mar. 31, 1996                  2,000                5,700                 22
June 30, 1996                  2,040                7,740                 31
FY1997
Sep. 30, 1996                  2,400               10,140                 40
Dec. 31, 1996                  2,500               12,640                 50
Mar. 31, 1997                  2,500               15,140                 60
June 30, 1997                  2,520               17,660                 70
FY1998
Sep. 30, 1997                   1,950              19,610                 77
Dec. 31, 1997                   1,920              21,530                 85
Mar. 31, 1998                   1,920              23,450                 92
June 30, 1998                   1,900              25,350                100






- 44-
ANNEX X
Page l of2
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT - CSRS
1.    The accounting records and books of account at CSRS should be designed not only to
present the historical record of receipts and payments, but should also be able to depict the
financial status of the project at the end of an accounting period. Given below is the proposed
terms of reference for the project Principal Accountant (PA) at the Civil Service Reform
Secretariat.
Terms of Reference
2.    Qualification: Professionally qualified accountant or advanced level partly qualified
accountant and having broad experience in public sector accounting and finance as well as
management cost accounting. He should also be computer literate.
3.    Key Functions: The PA should be fully familiar with the Government-based accounting
practice and have the capacity to maintain financial records required under the project as specified
in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). The PA should check all CSRS expenditures and
ensure that expenditure returns are processed and submitted through the Treasury. He should
capture all project expenditures and incorporate them into CSRS's financial statements. The PA
should develop a system of monitoring and facilitating funds flow to Ministries and reform
committees participating in the project. The PA should initiate the preparation of Withdrawal
Applications based on Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) and direct payment where applicable
and prepare Payment Authorization Forms (PAFs). This should be done for all payments through
the Special Account (SA). The PA should liaise with Treasury on any SA replenishment
applications at least once every month. The PA should also interact with the Project Coordinator
in the preparation of annual work programs; budgets and allocation of funds especially in the
issuance of Authority to Incur Expenditures (AlEs). In addition, the PA would establish a record
of actual disbursements matched with the provisions made in the project documents under each
major category of expenditure, and compile data showing current and cumulative actual
expenditure and commitments, under each category and project component. The PA should also
prepare the consolidated project accounts from all the project financial data (sources and
applications) and ensure that project accounts and records are submitted to the Auditor by the due
date. The PA shall coordinate with the Auditor General's department for annual audits in
accordance with IDA requirements as stated in the DCA.



- 45 -
ANNEX X
Page 2 of 2
Accounts and Audits
4.    A single consolidate account should be prepared for the project. The Government's
appropriation accounts will no longer be acceptable by IDA as an adequate representation of
expenditures incurred under the project. Responsibility for preparing project accounts will rest
with the PA at CSRS, who will specifically be assigned the task of establishing and maintaining
the project's financial records and accounts. The PA would obtain information from Ministries
and Reform Committees through the Pay Master General (PMG) Unit of the Treasury on all
project expenditures and incorporate the information with project expenditures. He/she will use
this information to prepare consolidated project accounts.
5.    A foreign exchange SA would be established for the project with a commercial bank
through the Central Bank of Kenya on terms satisfactory to IDA. Upon credit effectiveness, an
initial deposit will be placed in the SA representing about 3 months of operating expenditures.
Operations of the SA including replenishments (preferably on a monthly basis) would follow Bank
procedures.
6.    Audit: The accounts would be audited by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA, and
that all audited accounts, together with the auditors' report and separate opinion on the records
and accounts used to support disbursement against SOEs will be submitted to IDA no later than
six months after the end of each Government fiscal year. Government will ensure that the
auditors' opinion is obtained on the operation of the project SA in each fiscal year and submitted
to IDA together with the PA's report on or by the due date (in the present case, December 31).



- 46 -
ANNEX XI
Page 1 of 7
REPU3LIC OP KENYA
OFFI0   OF rHE PRESIDBNT
re!. ,_   -, ;a:rob       ~~D12t=%ATE or PERS-CN}+ Mj_aGs19N
Tedc: 21.1W                               P.O. Box 30a50
rar: 216145
VA-= m24* p>:quKxOctober 13, 1994
Mr. Edward Jaycox
Vice President, Africa
World Bank
1818 H Street NW,
WASHINGTON DC 20433
Dear  
LETTER OF SECTORAL POLICY
CIVIL SERVICE REFORM PROGRAMME (CSRP)
Background to CSRP: Diagnosis of the Problems
1.    Following several years of internal study and debate, the Government of Kenya prepared a Civil Service
Reform Programme and Action Plan in March, 1992. At that time, it was already evident that to sustain Public
Service Programmes from the economy's scarce resources, it was absolutely mandatory that the efficiency and
productivity of the Civil Service be improved. In this regard, there was urgent need to identify and implement on
a sustainable basis substantial cost-saving and productivity-enhancing measures.
2.     The Civil Service Reform Programme and Action Plan identified five (5) major problem areas which
would be the subject of the envisaged reform initiatives as follows:
(i)     Civil Service Organization: growth in size and complexity over the years of Government
Ministries, Agencies, Departments and Services may have led to possible internal duplication,
efficiency of organizational structures, hierarchies of authority, delegation, spans of control, and
job descriptions and specifications;
(ii)    Staffing: inadequate control over staffing especially at lower echelons, leading to a bloated
payroll and dwindling budgetary resources for operations and maintenance;
1



-47 -                              ANNEX XI
Page 2 of 7
(iii)   Pay and Benefits: in comparison to the private sector, relatively low compensation levels which
may have led to low morale and increasing inability of the Government to attract and retain
requisite technical and managerial talent,
(iv)   Staff Development and Personnel Management: observed weaknesses in the system of skill
needs planning, staff training and records management leading sometimes to poor placement,
deployment, induction, career progression and performance evaluation. This had significant
implications on establishment control, capacity building, morale, service ethics and regulations,
discipline and not least, productivity;
(v)    Financial and Performance  fanagement: need for improved mechanisms for maintaining best
financial and performance management standards, including payroll integrity, establishment
control, and objective performance evaluation instruments and procedures; slow adoption of
innovations in management information systems.
3.     Objectives of CSRP, Achievements to Date, and Commitments for Further Action
The Civil Service Reform Programme seeks to alleviate the problems already identified. This will be
done in three phases, sequenced to overlap at various implementation stages. The most immediate pnority is cost
containment which should be vigorously implemented as the first phase of the Programme. This phase will be
followed by one on performance improvement. The third phase of the programme will consist of identified
measures to refine and sustain reform gains. As already mentioned, however, these three phases are sequenced
to overlap at various stages of implementation because the CSRP's five major problem areas are very closely
interrelated and intricately intertwined. The first phase consists of the following components: (i) Rationalization
of Staffing and Expenditure, (ii) Staff Development and Personnel Management, (iii) Compensation Reforms, and
(iv) Rationalization of Target Ministries. These are described in greater detail below, including achievements to
date and Government commitments for further action:
(i)    Rationalization of Staffing and Expenditure: the main objective here is to achieve a better ratio of 0 &
M against personnel emoluments in the recurrent budget. This ratio currently stands at about 3:7. Downsizing of
the Civil Service establishment has already taken centre stage as a single most important long-term cost-reduction
strategy.
(a)    The Government implemented a hiring freeze on Job Groups 'A' to 'G' in 1991 and has since
imposed vigorous enforcement measures. Over the period 1st January 1992 to 30th June, 1994
this freeze, combined with natural wastage and Voluntary Early Retirement Scheme (VERS - see
below), has reduced the total Civil Service Complement from 275,283 to 252,940. The hiring
freeze on recruitment in grades A-G will be maintained and enforced through the duration
of the Civil Service Reform Program.
(b)    The Government undertook verification of personnel records during April - October, 1992.
(c)    The Government undertook design, testing and full implementation of unique eight digit personal
identification numbers (PIN) for the entire service with a view to securing payroll integrity,
including elimination of ghost workers, ghost payments; and controlling recruitment into the
Service. The Government will commence comprehensive computerization of the payroll
2



-48 -                                ANNEX XI
Page 3 of 7
system to increase its accuracy and effectiveness as a management and budgeting tool, and
to cleanse the payroll to remove any remaining ghost workers and/or ghost payments.
(d)    The Government reduced the number of Ministnres from 30 in 1991/92 to 22 in January, 1993.
(e)   Since July 1993, Govermment eluminated 22,000 vacant positions from  the total approved
establishment for the 1993/94 financial year; the government will reduce establishment by
26,000 by January 1995 through phased abolition of vacant posts. In addition, Government
will ensure that posts vacated through the VERS will be eliminated.
(f)    The Government initiated a high profile formal launching of the Civil Service Reform Programme
and issue of Personnel Circular No.5 of 12th October, 1993 which detailed and publicized the
CSRP goals and objectives, including its institutional framework. At the helm was a high
powered National Steering Committee (NSC), chaired by the Permanent Secretary/Secretary to
the Cabinet and Head of Public Service. The Civil Service Reform Secretariat (CSRS), headed
bv a Progranmne Director, was set up as the operational armn of the NSC. Ministerial, Provincial
and District Civil Service Reform Committees were also established with terms of reference
which to a large extent covered the problem areas alreadv mentioned.    These Reform
Committees were subsequently afforded opportunity through seminars (December 1993 to
January 22. 1994) to discuss the design of the Programme, including implementation modalities
of its vanous components, of which the staffing component, involving dowmsizing the service
through a Voluntary Early Retirement Scheme, immediately took centre stage,
(g)    The Government implemented the Voluntary Early Retirement Scheme (VERS) for officers in
grades A - G' as part of downsizing of the establishment. The VERS, through which at least
30,000 officers are expected to Voluntarily retire over three years, is complemented by a safety
net package designed to alleviate post retirement hardships while positively influencing retiree
commitment to invest in small scale enterprises within the private sector. By 30th June, 1994
some 5,800 officers had retired under the VERS at a total Safety Net cost to Government of
k.sh. 1 billion which had been budgeted for during the 1993/94 financial year. All the retirees are
being trained so as to enable them cope with the challenges of early retirement;
(h)    The Government will monitor the timely availability and processing of VERS application
forms throughout the duration of the Civil Service Reform Program and make resulting
data available to those external donors who are assisting or financing related aspects of the
Program.
(i)    The Government has commissioned an actuanal study to bear upon the Safety Net Package, to be
completed by November 1994. The results of this study will be used to guide determination of
equitable and sustainable safety net packages for VERS.
(j)    In order to ensure that VERS does not result in the loss of essential skilled cadre that would have
to be replaced, the Government will establish objective criteria for "ring-fencing" certain
skill categories and remove them from eligibility for early retirement under the VERS, by
January 1995.
3



49-                                 ANNEX XI
Page 4 of 7
(k)    In order to ensure against any potential for "revolving doors," the Government will institute
mechanisms for ensuring that beneficiaries of the VERS do not rejoin the public service for
at least five years.
(I)    The Government created an Interministerial Task Force in mid 1994 to look into service-wide
issues of deployment and redeployment in the light of VERS. This Task Force works closely
with CSRS and the established Reform Committees.
(m)   The Government allocated Kshs. 1.75 billion during the 1994/95 financial year for continuation of
VERS with a target 10,000 retirees by 30th June, 1995 and a further 4,200 should additional
financial resources become available to Government in the course of the year. Government will
allocate K.Sh.1.75 annually in its budget for VERS. A further 6,000 civil servants are expected
to leave the service annually through normal attrition, making a total of 48,000 officers expected
to have left the service by end of the third year. The Government has already written to ODA
about funding of this excess of 4,200 and positive discussions are going on.
(n)    The Government implemented changes in the retirement policy to allow Civil Servants in Job
Group 'H' and above who are 40 years of age (as opposed to 45 years), with at least 10 years of
service, to retire. This complements the VERS.
Along with VERS are measures to streamline civil service organizational structure; derive and implement
staffing norms; improve establishment control; optimize staff deployment; develop job inspection capacities;
cleanse and comprehensively computerize the payroll system to increase its accuracy and effectiveness as a
management and budgeting tool; and introduce improved financial management systems.
(o)    In particular, in order to improve expenditure controls and monitoring, the Government will
identify areas where O&M spending is critical, and develop a number of "budget-neutral"
packages for consideration, by April 1995.
(p)    By January 1995, the Government will identify and procure resources to conduct staffing
norms studies. By February 1995, Government will commence staffing norms studies for all
cadres in service. By about June 1995, Government will implement the findings and
recommendations of the staffing norms studies.
(ii)   Staff Development and Personnel Management: this component will include: development and
implementation of an improved skill needs planning and staff training; strengthening of management training
institutes and enhancement of management training; streamlining the systems of recruitment, induction,
performance assessment, job inspection, promotions and discipline, and vigorous implementation of a revised
Civil Service Code of Regulations as part of efforts to develop and promote better personnel management
practices.
(a)    The Government will develop a new training policy for the civil service, which will be based
on the needs identified at the ministerial level and financed by decentralized training budgets
at the ministerial level. An Inter Ministerial Task Force on Training and Capacity Building
has been created for this purpose.
4



-50-                                ANNEX XI
Page 5 of 7
(b)    The Government has prepared plans to restructure the Kenya Institute of Administration (K.I.A.)
- the top post entry management training institution for the service -into an autonomous and
financially independent body. The Government will design, develop and implement measures
to strengthen the Kenya Institute of Administration (legislation for autonomy) and increase
capacity in other management training institutes.
(c)    In addition, the Government initiated training needs assessment for the Reform Committees in
August, 1994; and completed a training needs asscssment for CSRS in September 1994.
(d)    The Government will identify training needs for Key job groups in the Civil Service
beginning November 1994, and therefor start implementation of training programs.
(e)    The Government will Review  career structures (grading, job descriptions,schemes of
service and career planning) in conjunction with the Ministerial Reviews (see below).
(f)    The Government will Commence Review of the Civil Service Code of Regulations by
February, 1995.
(g)    The Government will review bottlenecks in the current appraisal systems starting March -
June, 1995.
(h)    The Government will design and test output focussed performance evaluation instruments
by July/August 1995, with a view to implementing, where feasible, improved performance
evaluation instruments and procedures by September/October, 1995.
(i)    The Government will determine and implement supportive linkages between performance
appraisal and schemes of service. A sub-output here is a career planning manual.
(iii)   Compensation Reforms: this component will examine the pay and benefits packages available to various
cadres in the service with a view to identifying measures that could be undertaken so as to enhance
professionalism, quality, motivation and discipline, and also attract and retain requisite technical and managerial
competence. It is envisaged that through this component, measures towards wage decompression, monetization of
allowances, and equitable and sustainable housing policy for Civil Servants will be identified and recommended
for implementation.
(a)    The Government has formed an inter-ministenral Task Force during June/July 1994 to study and
make recommendations to the Government on compensation reforms, performance appraisal,
incentive rewards, personnel management, Civil Service housing policy, Code of Regulations and
Service ethics, and other measures to be undertaken in order to enhance motivation in the service;
(b)    The Government has implemented improved conditions of service, including monetization of out-
patient medical benefits and substantial wage decompression, with effect from 1st July, 1994 as
contained in Personnel Circular No.6 of 7th July, 1994 on 'New conditions of Service for the
Kenya Civil Service 1994'.
(c)    In addition, the Government has initiated a review/study of civil service remuneration packages to
facilitate movement towards parity with the private sector, under the auspices of the Task Force
on Motivation and other Government initiatives.
5



- 51 -
ANNEX XI
Page 6 of 7
(d)    The Government has initiated a study on monetization of benefits received by civil servants
beyond those already implemented. The Government will initiated a specific study on housing
policy by May 1995.
(iv) Rationalization of six Target Ministries: The Government has identified six target Ministries for intensive
reform assistance during the first phase of the Programme and commencement of preparatory work. These
Ministnres are:-
*  Ministry of Health;
*  Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Development and Marketing;
*  Ministry of Finance;
*  Ministry of Public Works and Housing,
*  Ministry of Lands and Settlement; and
*  Ministry of Land Reclamation, Regional and Water Development.
(a)    The Government is conducting an overall organization review to re-examiine the following:
existing organizational structure; hierarchy of authority and spans of control; conflicts, overlaps
and ambiguities in jobs descriptions; staffing norns; identify areas for increased delegation;
improvement of communication channels; leadership styles and related training needs; human
resources management and target-setting.
(b)    The Government will implement the resulting recommendations for two lead Ministries: the
Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Development and Marketing
by June 1995. In addition, the Government will continue exploratory work for four other
Ministries: Finance, Public Works and Housing, Lands and Settlement, and Land
Reclamation, Regional and Water Developent during the first half of 1995. The Government
will implement the recommendations in the Ministries of Finance and Public Works in FY
95/96 and in the Ministries of Lands and Settlement, and Land Reclamation, Regional and
Water Development in FY 96/97.
(c)    In addition, the Government intends to identify and eliminate duplication, overlap and ambiguity
in the management of human resources; to develop and implement an improved skills needs
planning system and staff training in all other ministries during the second phase of the Civil
Service Reform Program.
4.    Initial Support to CSRP
Credit for the Programme's achievements so far goes not only to the Government of Kenya which is
unreservedly committed to the CSRP goals and objectives, but also to the World Bank which through its several
CSRP Appraisal Missions and close collaboration with Government of Kenya (GOK) has significantly
contnbuted to the envisioning and preparation of the project as it now stands. The ODA has assisted GOK by
providing the CSRS with requisite equipment, funds for mounting the Reform Commnittee seminars and support
for preliminary consultancy studies on retiree training. Discussions are also being held with ODA on additional
funding of VERS. GOK has also worked closely with UNDP on funding requirements for CSRP activities.
Other donors have expressed interest and understanding, and it is GOK's hope that they will soon be able to make
definite commitments to augment the efforts already made towards full implementation of the CSRP.
6



- 52 -
ANNEX XI
Page 7 of 7
5.    Implementation Arrangements
The National Steering Committee of the CSRP will provide policy guidance, approve plans, budgets and
time schedules, and generally superintend over all implementation arrangements in Ministnres, Districts and
Provinces. The National Steering Committee's operational arm, the CSRS, will provide the necessary co-
ordination and technical support, including procuring specialized service-wide consultancy services.
Responsibility for successful implementation of all agreed components of the Project in each ministry
rests with the Ministerial Reform Committee, chaired by the Permanent Secretary who is the chief executive of the
Ministry. As expected, Ministerial Comrmittees Will inevitably have a sectoral focus.
The Provincial and District Civil Service Reform  Committees will be responsible for project
implementation in Provinces and Districts, respectively.  The inter-disciplinary, multi-sectoral approach to
development planning and implementation which has been the hallmark of District planning during the last ten
years will enable these Reform Committees to consider all the implementation issues globally.  This will
complement the sectoral focus by Ministerial Reform Committees.
Each Reform Committee will implement, monitor and evaluate progress, continuously reporting any
challenges to the National Steenrng Committee of the Programme.
Since Ministries may not be self sufficient in certain resources, including technical and managerial
competence required for the Reform, it is envisaged that requisite external input Will be sought and procured
under the IDA credit.
GOK has submitted funding proposals to IDA and other donors and is ready for negotiations as soon as
this is agreed upon. This letter, therefore, apart from highlighting the goals, objectives, targets and time schedules
of the Civil Service Reform Programme, serves as an appeal to your good offices for technical and budgetary
support. GOK is convinced that all the CSRP project components will be successfully carried out through this
partnership.
Please accept the assurances of our highest consideration.
GAYORtE. AVEDI
PERMANENT SECRETARY/DIRECTOR
DIRECTORATE OF PERSONNEL MANAGMENT
AND VICE CHAIRMAN, NATIONAL STEERING
COMMITTEE
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
Encls.
7






- 53 -
ANNEX XII
Page 1 of2
KENYA
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND
CIVIL SERVICE REFORM PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
OBJECTIVES OF THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN                                                 1
INTRODUCTION TO OVERALL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
LAYOUT                                                                                        3
SECTION 1                                                                                     5
1. I PROJECT BACKGROUND AND DESCRIPTION                             ..................................5
1.1.2   B ackground   ................................................5
1.1.3 Projection Description ................................................6
1.1.4 Project Benefits and Risks ..............        ................................. 11
1.1.5 Financing Plan ................................................ 14
1.1.6 Project Costings ............................................... 14
SECTION 2                                                                                   20
2.1  IMPLEMENTATION  MANAGEMENT ................................................. 20
2.1.1 Organizations Responsible for the Project ............................................. 20
2.1.2 Implementation Approach              ................................................. 27
2.1.3 Responsibility of the Implementing Agency with IDA ............................ 28
2.1.4 Relationship of Implementing Agency with IDA    .................................... 28
2.1.5  Role of IDA during Project Implementation   .......................................... 29
2.1.6 Administrative Arrangements for Project Implementation              ...................... 29
2.1.7 Administrative Procedures .................................................      29



- 54 -
ANNEX XII
Page 2 of 2
SECTION 3                                                                                                                                    54
3.1         IM PLEM ENTATION   PLAN   ..................................... ................... 54
3.1.2   Time-bound  Detailed  Implementation  Plan  ...................                                     ....................... 54
3.1.3   Procurement Actions                              ......................................................... 58
3.1.4   Disbursement Schedule: .......................                                 ............................ . ... 59
3.1.5   CSRS  Project Accounts ........................................................                                             62
3.1.6   Timing  of Reports ......................................................... 70
SECTION 4                                                                                                                                   162
4. 1  M ONITORING    AND   EVALUATION   .........................................                                             ..... 162
4. 1 .1 Key Progress Indicators for monitoring delivery of project inputs and
achievement of project outputs ........ ................................................  162
4.1.2   Procurement Plan .........................................................                                              164
4.1.3 Key development inpact indicators for measuring progress in reaching
project development objections  ......................................................... 168
4.1.4 Key financial indicators to assess the projects budgetary and financial
health .......................................................                                                       169
4. 1.5   Major loan  covenants that require  special attention  ... .                                       ....................... 172
4.1.5. 1  Project Organization  and  Management ....................                                    ..............I... 172



- 55 -
ANNEX Xm
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
1.    Kenya Civil Service Reform Programme andAction Plan. Directorate of Personnel
Management, Office of the President, GOK. May 1992.
2.    Kenya Civil Service Reform Programme: A Review of the Organizational Structure
and Capacity of the reform Secretariat and the System for the Operationalization of
the Early Retirement Scheme. KK Consulting Associate. October 1993.
3.    Report of the Task Force on Motivation in the Civil Service under the Auspices of the
Civil Service Reform Programme. Directorate of Personnel Management, Civil
Service Reform Secretariat, GOK. June 1994.
4.    Investment Opportunities for Civil Servant Retirees: Needs of Assistance. Prepared
by KenAID for the Civil Service Reform Secretariat. June 1994.






BRD 26150
S U D A N 
S-DAN
';'                            ' '_  .KENYA
(j:.-''\.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 MO, A1,pc 
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T AOd 0 MM                                                                                                         t
J s- ;;~~KAKAMEGA                                                                                                                                                         >  / i 
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T ;G )- -                                                                                               <AB 
_    IAAJOR TOW.NS 
T      NAT ON4AL CAP TAL                 T  uso                                   \|                                                                  w J
MA N ROADS                                                                      \                                        AUD
t+   NAT ONAL AIRPORTS                                       _                              O  
IN- I TENATI-NAL A RPORTS              J\                                               ~\/SDN                                                ( 
D STR CT BOUNDAR ES                                                             ,                                                              SETH
\               t/ ~~~~~MBtASA                     --        OMI
-N7ERtNAT ONAL DOUNDAR ES                                                                     '\          4ZAIRE ,  S  
O    S()      100lo     I SO     700 tKmll           f:3 
N.I                                                     %'                         RWA,DA
050                     100Mle  .4                                                   BRUN~DI
T,, hcErdle   005dnmntosod  ony  ote  nomosnn                                                                                                                 ANZANIA
sh,Wr or  h     'rlp do nt tnpy  on  he port of The World Bonk                                                                        
G.c p urly ludq- nt orhe legol Sto s of ony terr40oy, or ony                                                                                           l B
erldlseoel- o  oceponceof vchbo,Ddo,,eS                                                                                                        A      _
AUGUST 1994



