Page  1
                                                        CONFORMED COPY
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2671 KE
                       Development Credit Agreement
     (Institutional Development and Civil Service Reform Project)
                                 between
                            REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                                   and
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated January 30, 1995
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2671 KE
                      DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 30, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Association has received a letter dated October 13, 1994
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to reform and strengthen its civil service (here-
inafter called the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to
the execution of the Program;
     (C)  the Borrower intends to obtain from the Overseas Development
Administration (ODA) a grant (the ODA Grant) in an amount equivalent
to $10,700,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the ODA Grant Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and ODA; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with
the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions),
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "CSRS" means the Civil Service Reform Secretariat
established by the Borrower to manage and coordinate civil service
reform;
     (b)  "DPM" means the Directorate of Personnel Management in the
Office of the President;
     (c)  "KIA" means the Kenya Institute of Administration;
     (d)  "MRC" means the Ministerial Reform Committee established in
each of the Borrower's Ministries to carry out civil service reform
in the respective ministries;
     (e)  "NSC" means the National Steering Committee;
     (f)  "VERS" means the Voluntary Early Retirement Scheme adopted
by the Borrower in 1993 to finance civil service reform and retirement
of civil servants;
     (g)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange
of letters dated February 25, 1994 and March 18, 1994 and letters
dated November 8, 1994 and November 28, 1994 between the Borrower and
the Association;
    (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
    (i)   "Shillings" means the currency of the Borrower;
    (j)   "Project Implementation Plan" means the plan dated November
11, 1994, as amended from time to time by the Borrower and the
Association, for the implementation of the Project; and
    (k)   "Fiscal Year" of the Borrower means the period July 1 to
June 30.
                               ARTICLE II
                               The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventeen million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
17,200,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Page  3
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to the Bank the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to para-
graph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be
applied from the next payment date in that year specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions
of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1,
commencing February 1, 2005 and ending August 1, 2034. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on August 1,
2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Asso-
ciation may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment
of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such
Page  4
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided
in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
the Department of Personnel Management with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
     Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  implement the Project in accordance with the Project
Implementation Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Association; and
     (b)  (i) by January of each Fiscal Year until completion of the
Project, furnish to the Association for its review and comment its
forward budget allocation for VERS for the following year, and (ii)
adopt such budget satisfactory to the Association, including pro-
vision of adequate allocations for VERS of not less than the equi-
valent of Shillings 1.75 billion (in constant shillings) for each
year.
     Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article
IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, for the future operation of the Project;
     (b)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
     (c)  thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Association's comments thereon.
     Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, until completion
of the Project: (i) the CSRS, (ii) the National Steering Committee,
and (iii) the Ministerial Reform Committees, and other Reform
Committees established under VERS, all with staff in adequate numbers
and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
     (b)  Without limitation to or restriction upon its other
reporting requirements under the General Conditions or this Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall submit to the Association for review semi-
annual progress reports on the Project not later than March 31 and
Page  5
September 30 of each year. Said progress reports shall cover, inter
alia: (i) budget allocations and actual expenditures for VERS, (ii)
the number of civil servants retrenched under VERS, and (iii) the
number of retrenched civil servants who have been trained.
     (c)  The NSC shall meet at least once every six months to review
the progress reports referred to in paragraph (b) above prior to
submission to the Association.
     Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall carry out jointly with the
Association, not earlier than June 30, 1996 and not later than
September 30, 1996, a midterm review of the progress made in carrying
out the Project and the Program. This review shall cover, among other
things: (i) the workings of VERS; (ii) compensation reform; (iii)
staff rationalization; (iv) personnel management; (v) staff
development; and (vi) ministerial rationalization plans.
     (b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, at least 90
days prior to the midterm review described in paragraph (a) above,
a report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association,
describing the status of the items listed in such paragraph and the
status of Project and Program implementation generally.
     (c)  Based on such midterm review, the Borrower shall promptly
prepare an action plan acceptable to the Association for the further
implementation of the Project and the Program and shall thereafter
implement such action plan.
     Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all necessary governmental
action to ensure that positions vacated by retirees through the VERS
are eliminated and cancelled from the civil service establishment.
                                ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this Section including those for the
               Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
          (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after
               the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
               report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
               and in such detail as the Association shall have
               reasonably requested; and
         (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records, accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  6
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association
               has received the audit report for the fiscal year
               in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
               or payment out of the Special Account was made, all
               records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
               and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and that the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal year, together with the pro-
               cedures and internal controls involved in their
               preparation, can be relied upon to support the
               related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
     (b)  subject to paragraph (c) of this Section:
          (i)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
               of any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the
               financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
               cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
               pursuant to the terms thereof, or
         (ii)  any such loan shall have become due and payable prior
               to the agreed maturity thereof.
     (c)  Paragraph (b) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that the event specified in Section 5.01 (b) (i) of this Agree-
ment shall occur, subject to the proviso of Section 5.01 (c) of
this Agreement.
                               ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence
satisfactory to the Association that a functioning accounts section,
with staff in adequate numbers and with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association, has been established
within CSRS. The said accounting unit shall be headed by a chief
accountant whose qualifications and experience shall be satis-
factory to the Association; and
Page  7
     (b)  the Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence
satisfactory to the Association showing that all positions already
vacated by retirees through the VERS have been eliminated and
cancelled from the civil services establishment.
     Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                  Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister for Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 30007
          Nairobi, Kenya
          Cable address:                Telex:
               FINANCE                  22921
               Nairobi                  MINFIN-KE
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
                                         64145 (WUI) or
                                        197688 (TRT)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                    By /s/ Benjamin E. Kipkorir
                                              Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Francis X. Colao
                                         Acting Regional Vice President
Page  8
                                                                 Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of
the Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for
items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Computers and              2,540,000        100% of foreign
     Equipment                                   expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures
(2)  Vehicles                     240,000        100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures
(3)  Consultants'               9,480,000        100%
     Services
(4)  Training                   2,090,000        100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures
(5)  Office                       410,000        80%
     Supplies
(6)  Refunding of                 970,000        Amounts due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(7)  Unallocated                1,470,000
                               __________
     TOTAL                     17,200,000
                               ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
for: (a) goods under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, (b)
services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for
consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for individual consultants,
and (c) all local training, under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
Page  9
                          Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
reforming its civil service and in improving the performance of
selected ministries by: (a) rationalization of staffing and
improved staff control; (b) introducing compensation reform; (c)
improving personnel management practices; (d) improving opportu-
nities for staff development; and (e) ministerial rationalization.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Staffing Rationalization
1.   Improving the design of VERS, including carrying out a review of
the costs and benefits of the system.
2.   Developing an overall structure for establishment and payroll
control.
3.   Developing and implementing of a new Integrated Personnel and
Payroll Database system.
4.   Strengthening the capacity of CSRS in managing the reform
program.
5.   Acquisition of vehicles and computers for CSRS.
Part B:   Compensation Reforms
1.   Carrying out a comprehensive review of pay and benefits, grading
policies and procedures and job evaluation techniques.
2.   Carrying out a study on civil servants' housing scheme.
3.   Implementing a pilot program on performance-related pay system.
Part C:   Personnel Management
1.   Developing a human resource strategy and a training scheme in
change management techniques.
2.   Carrying out a program for the improvement of personnel manage-
ment organization and procedures, including options for decentrali-
zation.
3.   Developing a modern performance appraisal system.
Part D:   Staff Development
1.   Strengthening the Kenya Institute of Administration in providing
high quality market-oriented training courses to civil servants and
retirees through the acquisition of computers, office equipment and
infrastructure rehabilitation.
2.   Carrying out a review of the structure of the KIA, its course
portfolio and other services.
3.   Improving the financial management of KIA.
4.   Assisting the Government training institute, Mombasa, in training
retirees retrenched under VERS.
5.   Training for staff in CSRS, DPM, NSC and Ministerial Reform
Committees in civil service management and related fields.
Part E:   Rationalization of Ministries
1.   Carrying out rationalization programs in selected ministries
involving:
Page  10
     (a)  carrying out an organization review of each ministry;
     (b)  assisting in the design and execution of implementation
programs;
     (c)  carrying out a review of management structures and
practices, including the personnel management function;
     (d)  updating job descriptions, regrading posts and introducing
a new performance appraisal system;
     (e)  improving establishment control through building interim
MIS systems to improve monitoring of staff numbers;
     (f)  carrying out studies on staffing norms; and
     (g)  acquisition of computers, vehicles and other equipment.
                                  * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 1997.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines), and in accordance with the following additional procedures:
     (a)  When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines,
by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation,
obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.
The bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the
bidding documents or the request for extension shall provide for
appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in the
cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such
an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the
Association's prior review in accordance with the provisions of
Part D.2(a) of this Section, the Association's prior approval will
be required for (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if
the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days, and (ii) any
subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
     (b)  In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A,
the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Association shall
have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where
no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank,
the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other interna-
tionally recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for computers, vehicles and
office equipment shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or more.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Kenya may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
Page  11
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Computers, vehicles and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent
of $170,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $1,210,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equi-
valent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $750,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for computers, vehicles and
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are
to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
together with the other information required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex,
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants
under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Associa-
tion review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b)
Page  12
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference
for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms;
(c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent
or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000
equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                             Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $1,200,000 until the aggregate amount of with-
drawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all out-
standing special commitments entered into by the Association pur-
suant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to
or exceed the equivalent of SDR 6,100,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit
or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
               into the Special Account at such intervals as the
               Association shall specify.
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the docu-
               ments and other evidence required pursuant to para-
               graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments
               in respect of which replenishment is requested. On
               the basis of each such request, the Association shall,
               on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
               Account and deposit into the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown by said documents and other
               evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account
               for eligible expenditures.
Page  13
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
Page  14
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
