Page  1
                                                        CONFORMED COPY
                          DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2671-KE
                          TF020871
                           Dutch Grant Agreement
        (Institutional Development and Civil Service Reform Project)
                                  between
                              REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                                    and
                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         as Administrator of Dutch Funds
                                 provided by the
                       MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
                                OF THE NETHERLANDS
                            Dated March 18, 1996
                         DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2671 KE
                         TF020871
                           DUTCH GRANT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated March 18, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the
Grantee) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION acting as
Administrator (the Administrator) of the Dutch Grant (as hereinafter
defined) provided by the Minister for Development Cooperation of the
Netherlands (the Minister).
     WHEREAS the Grantee has requested the assistance of the
International Development Association and of the Minister in the
financing of activities under its Voluntary Early Retirement Scheme
under the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement No. 2671 KE dated January 30, 1995 between the Grantee
and the Administrator (the Development Credit Agreement);
     WHEREAS the Administrator has granted a credit for this purpose
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement;
     WHEREAS the Minister wishes to make available to the Grantee a
grant in the amount of seven million three hundred twenty-seven
thousand Dutch Guilders (NLG 7,327,000) (the Dutch Grant) to assist
the Grantee in carrying out the Project on the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth;
     WHEREAS by an exchange of letters (the Arrangements) dated
Page  2
November 29, 1995, between the Minister and the Administrator, the
Minister has requested the Administrator, and the Administrator has
accepted to administer, inter alia, the Dutch Grant in accordance
with the provisions of the Arrangements and the General Arrangements
of May 24, 1995, between the Minister and the Administrator; and
     WHEREAS the Grantee acknowledges that the financial assistance
extended to the Grantee under this Dutch Grant Agreement shall be
considered as part of the bilateral development aid extended by the
Government of the Netherlands to the Grantee;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                     General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement,
subject, however, to the following modifications thereof:
     (a)  the term "Association," wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association, acting
as Administrator of the Dutch Grant pursuant to the Arrangements,
except in the phrase "member of the Association" in Section 2.01 (5),
4.02 (b) and Section 6.02 (e);
     (b)  the term "Development Credit Agreement," wherever used in
the General Conditions, means this Agreement;
     (c)  the term "Credit," wherever used in the General Conditions,
means the Dutch Grant extended to the Grantee under this Agreement;
     (d)  the term "Credit Account," wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the Dutch Grant Account, the account opened by the
Administrator in its books in the name of the Grantee to which the
amount of the Dutch Grant is credited;
     (e)  in Section 6.02 the term "Association" shall also include
the Association acting in its own capacity;
     (f)  Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
          such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
          the Grantee and the Administrator, the Grantee shall
          prepare and furnish to the Administrator a report, of such
          scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall
          reasonably request, on the execution of the Project
          referred to in the Preamble to the Dutch Grant Agreement,
          the performance by the Grantee and the Administrator of
          their respective obligations under the Dutch Grant
          Agreement, and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
          Dutch Grant";
     (g)  Sections 3.02 through 3.05, 4.01 through 4.06, 6.05, 7.01,
8.01 (a), and Article XII are deleted; and
     (h)  the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Condi-
tions, means the Grantee.
     Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement and in
the Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings
therein set forth, and the terms "Dutch Guilders" and "NLG" mean
the currency of the Netherlands.
                                  ARTICLE II
                                   The Grant
Page  3
     Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Grantee,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to, a grant in an
amount of seven million three hundred twenty-seven thousand Dutch
Guilders (NLG 7,327,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The proceeds of the Dutch Grant may be with-
drawn from the Dutch Grant Account for expenditures made (or, if
the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of services, training and early retirement benefits,
in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment.
     (b)  The Grantee shall, for the purpose of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including
appropriate protection against set-off seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, contracts for goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Dutch Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit  Agreement.
     (b)  If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in paragraph (a) above, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant, and
the Administrator may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Administrator under this Agree-
ment, by notice to the Grantee, cancel such amount of the Dutch Grant
as, in the Administrator's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant.
     Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996, or such
later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator
shall promptly notify the Grantee of such later date.
                                 ARTICLE III
                           Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein,
Articles III and IV of the  Development Credit Agreement are hereby
incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as
if they were fully set forth herein, it being understood that all
references in said Articles III and IV to "Association" shall be
deemed to be references to the Administrator of the Dutch Grant
under this Agreement, and all references to the "Credit" and the
"Credit Account" shall be deemed to be references to the Dutch
Grant and the Dutch Grant Account, respectively, and all references
to the "Borrower" shall be deemed to be references to the Grantee.
                                ARTICLE IV
           Representation; Transfer of Rights and Obligations
     Section 4.01. The Minister in charge of finance of the Grantee
shall be the representative of the Grantee for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Grantee:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O Box 30007
          Nairobi
          Kenya
Page  4
          Cable address:                Telex:
               FINANCE                  22921
               Nairobi                  MINFIN-KE
     For the Administrator:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INDEVAS                  197688 (TRT)
               Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA)
                                         64145 (WUI) or
                                         82987 (FTCC)
     Section 4.03. In accordance with the Arrangements, the rights
and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be
transferred to the Minister. The Grantee accepts and agrees that,
upon notice by the Administrator to the Grantee to that effect,
the Minister shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in such
notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the
Administrator under this Agreement as if the Minister had been an
original party to this Agreement, without any further action or
formality required on the part of any party, and from such date,
the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as
a party under this Agreement.
                              ARTICLE V
                            Effectiveness
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the
date first above written and shall continue in effect until the
Dutch Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this
Agreement have fulfilled their obligations under this Agreement.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                    By /s/ Benjamin Kipkorir
                                            Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      as Administrator of the Dutch Grant
                    By /s/ Stephen Denning
                                        Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                Africa
Page  5
                                  SCHEDULE 1
                          Withdrawal of the Proceeds
                              of the Dutch Grant
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant, the allocation of the amounts
of the Dutch Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures
for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                  Amount of the
                                      Credit          % of
                                    Allocated      Expenditures
                                  (Expressed in       to be
     Category                    NLG Equivalent)     Financed
(1)  Functional rationalization
     of the Ministry of Land
     Reclamation, Regional and
     Water Development                995,000        100%
(2)  Training and capacity
     building for district and
     provincial level admini-
     strators                       1,195,000        100%
(3)  Early retireee training,
     baseline survey and impact
     assessment and identification
     of feasible retiree support
     systems and modalities for
     their implementation             195,000        100%
(4)  Voluntary Early Retirement
     Scheme safety net support      4,942,000        100%
                                    _________
               TOTAL                7,327,000
                                    =========
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                               SCHEDULE 2
                             Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the amount of the Grant
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to NLG 400,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  6
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Grantee
shall furnish to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit
into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of
such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the
Grantee, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Grantee shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Grantee
               shall furnish to the Administrator requests for
               deposits into the Special Account at such intervals
               as the Administrator shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the
               Grantee shall furnish to the Administrator the
               documents and other evidence required pursuant to
               paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
               payments in respect of which replenishment is
               requested. On the basis of each such request, the
               Administrator shall, on behalf of the Grantee,
               withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into
               the Special Account such amount as the Grantee shall
               have requested and as shall have been shown by said
               documents and other evidence to have been paid out
               of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
               All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
               Administrator from the Grant Account under the
               respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
               equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
               said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Grantee out of the Special Account,
the Grantee shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Administrator such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Grantee directly
from the Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement;
     (b)  if the Grantee shall have failed to furnish to the
Administrator within the period of time specified in Section 3.03
(b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to
be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section in
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special
Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the
Grantee of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Grantee to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall
specify by notice to the Grantee. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
Page  7
6.   (a)  If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expen-
diture or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Administrator, the Grantee shall, promptly upon notice from the
Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Admini-
strator may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Administrator shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the
Special Account shall be made until the Grantee has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Grantee shall,
promptly upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the Admini-
strator such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Grantee may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to
the Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
