Page  1
September 22, 1999
The Honourable 
Chrisanthus Okemo 
Minister 
Ministry of Finance 
The Treasury 
Nairobi, Kenya
Dear Sir:
Re:
Credit No. 2671 KE
Institutional Development and Civil Service Reform Project
Amendment to Development Credit Agreement
We would like to refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the Agreement) dated 
January 30, 1995 between the Republic of Kenya (the Borrower) and the International 
Development Association (the Association) as amended to date and to discussions held 
with the aim of financing additional technical advisory services to the Borrower.
We consequently propose the following amendments to the Agreement:
1.
Section 1.02 (h) is amended to read:
“(h)
‘Special Accounts’ means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this 
Agreement;”
2.
The first sentence of Section 2.02 (b) is amended to read as follows:
“(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in 
dollars two special deposit accounts, Special Account A for 
Parts A, B, C, D, and E 
of the Project, and Special Account B for Part F of 
the Project, in commercial banks 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment.”
3.
The date of Section 2.03 is amended to read “June 30, 2000.”
4.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Agreement is amended to read as in 
Attachment I hereto.
5.
A new Part I is added to Schedule 2 to the Agreement to read as follows:
“Part I:
Institutional Support for Economic Recovery Program
Formulation and implementation of the Borrower’s economic recovery 
program through 
the provision of technical advisory services.”
6.
Schedule 4 to the Agreement is amended as in Attachment II hereto.
If you agree with the proposed amendment, please sign and date the duplicate 
copy of this letter and return it to us.  The amendment will become effective on the 
date of your signature. 
Sincerely,
Harold E. Wackman
Country Director for Kenya
Attachments
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
Page  2
Authorized Representative
Date: ______________________
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Computers and
   4,300,000
100% of foreign
Equipment:
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(2)
Vehicles
     720,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’ Services
   6,265,000
100%
(4)
Training:
   3,575,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(5)
Operating Costs
     510,000
80%
(6)
Refunding of Project
     970,000
Amounts due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c) of
this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
     100,000
(8)
Technical Advisory
     760,000
Services under Part F
of the Project
  __________
TOTAL
  17,200,000
  ==========
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for Special 
Account A, and Category (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for Special Account B;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  3
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule equivalent in respect of (i) Special Account A to $2,000,000; and (ii) 
Special Account B to $250,000, provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited in respect of (A) Special 
Account A to an amount equivalent to $1,200,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account allocated to the relevant Categories plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 6,100,000. 
2.
Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of a Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Page  4
Categories for a Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
