Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AHJ3                           &l .
Report No. 8811-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
sCIENCE RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
October 19, 1990
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Brazil Country Department
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
IhIs document has a restctd dlsibut  and may be used by recpients iy in the peifonanm  of
their officid duties Its content may not othenwise be dicosed wihout Wo,d Bank athoraion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Cruzeiro
US$1.00 = Cr$ 51.25 11
Cr$1.00 = US$ 0.02
FISCAL YEAR
January 1--December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CA          risory Committee
CAPES     .,ordination for Advanced Training of Higher Education Personnel
CESA      Cruzeiro Expenditures Special Account
CNEN      National Council for Nuclear Energy
CNPq      National Council for Scientific and Technological Development
Cc        Coordinating Committee
EMBRAPA   Brazilian Enterprise for Agricultural and Live Stock Research
FAPESP    Foundation for Promotion of Science in Sao Paulo
FESA      Foreign Exchange Expenditures Special Account
FINEP     Agency for Financing of Studies and Projects
FIOCRUZ   Oswaldo Cruz Foundation
GATT      General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs
GEA       Special Advisory Group
GT        Techn:cal Group
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
INMETRO   National Institute for Metrology, Standardization
and Industrial Quality
INPI      National Institute of Intellectual Property
LCB       Local Competitive Bidding
MEC       Ministry of Education
PADCT     Support Program for Scientific and Tec'inological Development
RHAE      Program for Development of Human Resources in Strategic Areas
SARDI     System for Storage and Distribution of Consumables
SCT       Science and Technology Secretariat
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
1/ Official rate on May 18, 1990



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
SCIENCE RESEARCH AND TRAIRtING PROJECT 1/
Page
I. BACKGROUND ...        ... .        .1............................................. I
Population and Economic Growth ...............1.................... l
II.  THE SCIENCE SECTOR .        ...     ................ ..........* .............2
Justification for a Public Role in Science Research and
Training                         ..... .    2
Science Research and Training in Brazil             ..           3
Background .   .       .................................... ............. 3
Sectoral Management Issues .   . .................................. 4
Support Program for Scientific and Technological Development....5
Nature of Support ..........................................  6
Institutional Design .      ......................................... 7
Implementation ..........................................        7
Private Sector Investment in R&D .     . .............................. 9
III. BANK SECTOR STRATEGY ........................................... 11
IV.  THE SCIENCE RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT ...................... 13
Project Origin and Objectives ......................1........... 13
Project Description          ......................... 13
V.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCI   PLAN    . . ..................... 16
Cost of the Project .................................... 16
Financing Plan .      .    ..................................   19
VI.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION         ........................ 20
Organization and Management .................................... 20
Executive Secretary .. . .................................    20
Coordinating Committee ..................................... 21
Technical Groups    7      ..     .     ....................... 21
Advisory Committees .....................................     21
Funding Intermediaries ..................................... 22
Executing Institutions        ........................ 22
Studies            ............................... 23
Review and Advisory Group .................................... 23
Annual and Mid-Term Reviews         .................... 23
Decision-Making Process        ....................... 23
1/ This report is based on an appraisal mission that visited Brazil in May
and June, 1990. Mission members included Laurence Wolff (mission leader),
Charles Blitzer, Alcyone Saliba, and Aron Kuppermann. In addition, a pre-
appraisal mission visited Brazil in November, 1989 to review in detail
project sub-programs. Mission members at that time included Mr. Laurence
Wolff (mission leader), Patricio Marquez, Robert Kaplan, Geoffrey Shepherd,
Aron Kuppermann, William Parry, Carlos Primo-Braga, Fernando Barriga,
Malcolm McLaren, and John Buckingham.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Importation and Financial Administration .......................24
Procurement ................................. *................... .....25
Consultants ........................................................... 28
Disbursements .......................................................... 28
Monitoring, F7aluation, and Dissemination      .     .......... 29
Accounts and Auditing . ......................................... 30
Bank Supervision.,.* .... s ...... . ........... .. ........ 30
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS..          ... ............................... . 31
Benefits ............................................................. 31
Risks .............................................................. 31
VIII.PROPOSED AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................ .. 32
Annex 1l  Brazil's Effort in Research and Development   ..... .... 34
Annex 2:  Brazil's Science Funding and Implementing Agencies ........ 49
Annex 3:  Summary of PADCT I and II Sub-Programs    .........     .. 52
Annex 4:  Terms of Reference for a Paper on Issues
Problems and Policies in Science and Technology ........... So
Annex 5:  Terms of Reference for a Report on Industrial
Productivity in Brazil   ....................... s ........... .  83
Annex 6:  Criteria for Annual Reports and Reviews of Sector and
and Project Financing  . ......................... . ..... .85
Annex 7: Mid-Term Report and Review of Poject Implementation ....... 86
Annex S8  Selected Documents available in the Project File .......... 88
Tables
1. PADCT I Cost Breakdown by Subprogram          ... 90
2. PADCT I Allocation and Disbursement by Subprogram    .. 91
3. PADCT 1I Detailed Project Tables
3.1 Local Costs (Base plus Importation Expenses) and
Foreign Costs by sub-program .... ..................... 92
3.2 Cost Breakdown by investment Area and Subprogram ........ 93
3.3 Cost Breakdown by Expenditure Category and Subprogram ... 94
4. PADCT II Loan Disbursement Schedule ......................... 95
5. PADCT II Potential Beneficiaries                 .      .  96
6. Expected Committments, Expenditures and Disbursements ....... 97
Chart
1. Structure of the Science and Technology Secretariat ......... 98
2. Flow Chart of Decision Making under PADCT II ................ 99
MAP  -   IBRD  20444-R



Iiii
BRAZTh
SCIENCE XLZ_ARC= AND TRAINING PROJECT
TA'P AP_RISAL  RRPORT
LOAN D PROJECT SUMQ(RY
Forro               tederative Republic of Brazil
Project h ecutim
Assnaet             Secretariat of Science and Technology
AImout I            US$150 million equivalent
Terms               Repayment in 15 years, including 5 years of grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Pro1ect
Obiectives:         The project's main objective is to consolidate and
extend the gains made under an earlier project in
human resource development and strengtbening research
capacity in specific science areas, and in
institutional reform through decentralizing science
decision-making and increasing use of peer review.
The project also seeks to strengthen the management of
Brazil's science and technology sector as vell as to
help improve the environment for technological
Innovation in the private sector.
Prolect
V-eseCrloDt1oM      The project provides support, through competitive
grants, for research and training programs in
biotechnology, chemistry and chemical engineering,
geosciences and mineral technology, instrumentation,
new materials, environmental sciences, science
planning and management, primary and secondary school
science education, basic industrial technology,
science and technology information, prowLsion of
science consumables, and maintenance of scientific
equipment. In addition, the project supports
preparation of a report on science and technology
policies and a report on issues related to the
international competitiveness of Brazilian industry.
Benefleiariess      Project beneficiaries are estimated to include 2,400
Brazilian scientists, 6,600 graduate science students,
25,700 undergraduate students, 135,000 primary and
secondary teachers and 5,400,000 students, 7,300
technicians, 80 research institutes, 60 universities,
and an undetermined number of other users of science
and technology and information servlces.



lv
Project Benefits:   The project will increase human resource capacity in
science, improve the efficiency of resource allocation
in science and technology, and foster increased
understanding and public debate on policies affecting
the returns to investment in science research and
training. Through these benefits, the project will
enhance economic growth by strengthening Brazil's
capacity to respond to and adapt science and
technology to local conditions.
Proiect Risks:       Institutional change, including devolving decision-
making to the scientific community aad decentralizing
the system of science equipment importation, as well
as strengthening the Government's own planning and
analytical capacity, is a delicate and complex
process. The risk that these changes will not be
solidified will be minimized by the strong support for
the project, especially its objective of decentralized
decision-making, by the scientific community as a
whole and the considerable influence of this group on
the Government. A long term risk to achievement of
the goal of encouraging technological innovation in
the private sector would be continued macro-economic
instability as well as trade and other restrictions on
competition. This risk would be met in part through
project-supported studies and reports as well as
through the Bank's overall dialogue with the
Government on these issues.  Ai a means of increasS s
competition, the Government recently eliminated most
quantitative restrictions on inputs, and is
implementing a variety of additional steps in related
areas which are expected to help increase the long
term economic returns to investment in science.



v
Estimated Project Costs (in millions of USS)/*
------------------------------------------------------------__----__----
Subprogram                            Local  Foreign  Tota .
----------------------------------------------------------------__------
(a) Research Subprograms
Biotechnology                          22.8    17.2    40.0    13.3
Chemistrv and Chemical Engineering     34.0    20.4    54.4    18.2
Geosciences and Mineral Technology     25.7    12.0    37.7    12.S
Instrumentation                        14.0     4.F6 ,G   *       6.3
Environment                            10.5     4.2    14.7       4.D
New Materials                          14.8    21.2    36.0    12.0
(b) Support Subprograms
Science Planning and Management         3.3     1.5      4.8      1.6
Science Education                      17.1     4.9    22.0       7.3
Science Information                     5.8     0.4      6.2      2.1
Consumables                             4.4     2.4      6.8      2.3
Maintenance                             9.2     1.5    10.7       3.6
Basic Industrial Technology            24.3    12.1    36.4    12.1
Subtotals   185.9   102.6   288.5    96.2Z
(c) Studies                            1.9      0.3      2.2      0.72
(d) Administration                     8.8      0.5      9.3      3.1%
Totals   196.6   103.4   300.0        100X
Financing Plan (in millions of USS)
___-___-------------------------_--_---------_--------------------_____
Local  Foreign  Total        2
…--------------------------------------------------------------------__-
-Government of Brazil                 150.0     0.0   150.0    50.0
-IBRD                                  46.6   103.4   150.0    50.0
Totals   196.6   103.4   300.0        1002
,* Covering the first half (time slice) of an 8-year US$600 million program
of investment in science research and training.



vi
Estlmted Disbursement Schedule (in millions of USS)
lank PY           <1991               1993      1994      2-22196i
-Annual            231*      47        42        26         10         2
-Cumulative        23        70       112       138       148        150
/* Including US$18 million deposited In Special Accounts (fSa and CISA).
Eatimated Prolect ComPleticp -,tes June 30, 1995
Estinated Rate of Returns Not applILcable.
Staff Appraisal Reports No. 8811-BR
Maps 13RD 20444R Brasil



1
8RAZIL
SCIENCE RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
Population and Economic Growth
1.1 The Republic of Brazil is the world's fifth largest nation in area,
and, with a population of over 140 million, the most populous country in
Latin America. Brazil's GNP per capita of US$2,550 in 1989 makes it a
middle income country. Services and industry are the most important
sectors of the economy, accounting for 48Z and 432 of GDP, respectively.
Agricultural production represents 92 of GDP and has been declining.
1.2 From 1950 to 1980 the Brazilian economy grew at an average rate of
7.42 per annum, which was one of the highest rates in the world. During
this period, the public sector provided a variety of fiscal and monetary
incentives to attract foreign and domestic investment, and it enacted
policies that favored large-scale import substitution. In the 1980's, the
Brazilian economy slowed down considerably. Brazil's average GDP and
manufacturing growth was low (2.2Z and 0.82 p.a., respectively) in the
1980-89 period. Improvements in export shares achieved in the 1970's were
reversed in a number of technologically more sophisticated industrial
segments, including electric and non-electric machinery, transport
equipment and instruments. Preliminary data for 1989 indicate GDP growth
of about 3.6 percent.
1.3 A large stock of external debt was built up in the 1970's as " result
of heavy bcrrowing incurred by the Government to sustain growth and finance
large investments in industry and infrastructure projects. From 1980-89,
Brazil's gross external debt increased from US$64.2 billion (equivalent to
272 of GDP) to US$ 111.5 billion (23Z of GDP). In 1989 about 902 of the
registered debt was public debt, a significant increase compared to 1980
when the sha..e of public debt was 69?. Internal debt has also grown
rapidly c-*er the last few years, exacerbating the fiscal imbalance. The
trends of internal and external debt are linked as a result of the
government's issuance of domestic debt to obtain the resources necessary to
service its eularged external liabilities. Between 1980 and 1989, the
stock of outstanding Treasury securities increased at the annual rate of
19.62 in real terms. Brazil's gross fixed investment as a share of GDP
declined sharply from 262 in 1975 to 172 in 1988 and will need to return to
historical levels if productivity is to be increased and economic growth is
to be renewed. Inflationary pressures during the 1980's was driven in part
by Brazil's underlying fiscal deficit, which resulted from rising interest
payments and deteriorating revenue performance. The average annual rate of



2
inflation in 1-80-89 was 2472. Monthly inflation rates climbed to 842 by
March 1990.
1.4 The new Government which took power in March 1990 introduced a
stabilization program and structural reforms to overcome the sources of
Brazil hiyperinflation and chronic economic d3ficiencies. The key to the
plan was a radical monetary contraction. Other measures included new
taxes, limited private sector price and wage controls, a flexible exchange
rate, cuts in subsidies, a reduction of government bureaucracy, a
privatization program, and a trade aad industrial policy reform dismantling
non-tariff barriers to outside competition. Overall the impact of the plan
has been very positive. In 1990 the operaticnal deficit should be roughly
balanced, in contrast to a 102 deficit in 1989. Monthly inflation has
declined to around 10-122.
IT. THE SCIFNCE SECTOR
Justification for a Public Rcle in Science Research ard Trainina
2.1 Capacity building in science is a critical input to long term
productivity growth. This is becoming increasingly important in a world in
which economic success is based on the ability to incorporate new
technologies into industrial processos rather than on the simple
exploitation of natural resources.   --astments in basic and applied
scientific researcn and development (&wD' as well as in graduate training
have had high economic returns in the developed world.
2.2 A public role in support of science r- earch and training (science
being the dominant mode of knowledge gene A ion) is necessary because of
the uncertain returns of basic research projtcts and the inability of
enterprises to fully appropriate returns to that research. Patent
protection covers specific new products rather than general scientific
knowledge. Yet the development of new scientific knowledge eventually
results in a host of new and more efficient products, many of which are
unforeseen at the time of the initial research. The discovery of the
nature of DNA and the gene replication process in 1953 ii a good example of
basic research which is now fundamentally changing the nature of
agricultur.l production as well as many elements of health care.
'.3 While most fundamental discoveries about the nature of the universe
will continue to emanate from the industrialized countries, support of a
critical mass of scientific infrastructure in the developing world is
essential to enable these countries to select, incorporate and adapt
technology from abroad, to improve existing technology, and, in some cases,
to develop new technology meeting local as well as international needs.
This requires high quality graduate training as well as laboratory research
programs. Laboratory research is a fundamental element of graduate
training since it helps to ensure that scientists understand the critical
processes of knowledge generation and are conversant with latest
developments in their are4s. Support for engineering education and
research is equally important since engineers will help to translate
laboratory results into useful applications.



3
2.4 There is also a strong justification for a public role, in both tte
developed and developing worlds, in areas such an industrial standards and
meadurement and dissemination of information on new technologies. Under-
investment by industry in research in improved measurement technologies is
expected because of the nonproprietary character of many of these
technologies. Efficiency gains are achieved through research by a
government or government-financed laboratory, as well as through programs
of certification of secondary laboratories and of dissemination of
information on new measurement and other technologies.
2.' The conduct of scientific research has experienced many changes in
recent decades as a result of technological progress. The idea of pure
science, of scientists working in isolation from worldly concerns, is
rapidly changing as interactions between science, technology, and
production become more frequent and intense. There are several ways of
incorporating new scientific knowledge into industrial production,
including the pursuit of post graduate studies by engineers and scientists
working in industry, ample use of university professors as consultants for
industrial enterprises, cooperation between research centers and industry
in undertaking applied sciences projects, and new instituxtional
arrangements and partnerships between universities, government laboratories
and industry.
Science Research and Training in Brazil
2.6 Background. Brazil has a long tradition of giving explicit attention
to the role of science and technology (S&T) in economic development. The
country's R.&D spending in relation to GNP is 0.72. This figure is similar
to that of other middle income developing countries (Taiwan and India spend
about 0.9X, Mexico 0.62, Korea 1.6X), and lower than most industrialized
countries, which average two or three times as much (the United States
spends 2.72, Japan 2.92, West Germany 2.8?). However the private sector
accounts for only 202 of total investmeat in R&D, similar to that of
Mexico, India and Argentina, but lower than Korea (81X), USA (52?), Japan
(792) and West Germany (61X). In absolute terms, whereas the United States
invests approximately US$121 billion and Japan US$46 billion per year in
R&D, Braz'l invests only US$1.6 billion.
2.7 In terms of human resources development, Brazil lags noticeably
behind other indust. ilizing countries. In 1985, total enrollment in
higher education programs in science and engineering at the masters and
doctoral levels was 27,529. Brazil has fewer scientists and engineers
engaged in research and development in relatio, to population (256 per
million) than Taiwan (1,426 per million), Singapore (960 per million),
Korea (804 per million), and Argentina (360 per million), but somewhat more
than Mexico (216 per million).
2.8 Fully cognizant of these issues, over the last three decades. the
Brazilian government has been making a significant effort in S&T. As a
consequence, a large number of public institutions are now engaged in
graduate training and scientific research at federal and state



4
institutions. including universities, research institutes, and government
agencies, and a system has evolved for public financial support of these
efforts.
2.9 In 1985, a Ministry of Science and Technology was established with
responsibility for coordinating science and technology policy related
actions. The Ministry has now been replaced by a Secretariat for Science
and Technology (SCT) in the President's office.   This fairly small agency
has recent:y been reorganized to play a stronger coordinating and planning
vole (See Chart 1). It now includes directorates for planning,
coordination, programs, and industry/science linkages.
2.10 The most important Government agency financing and undertaking
science research is the National Council for Scientific and Technological
Development (CNPq;. affiliated with SCT. Other key agencies are the Agency
for Financing of Studies and Projects (FINEP) (also affiliated with SCT),
and the Coordination for Advanced Training of Higher Education Personnel
(CAPES) of .he Ministry of Education (MEC).  Annex 2 provides a summary
description of these and other key financing and implementing agencies in
the sector.
2.11 Sectoral Management Issues. In the early 1980's, the maintenance of
Brazil's capacity in science research was in jeopardy. Poor management of
the public funds available for R&D had discouraged entrance and retention
of qualified manpower in science. Graduate programs in science in most
universities, which had been strongly supported in the 1970's, suffered
from lack of se'ure funding and were losing their ability to attract and
maintain high quality faculty and students. During the last years of
military rule, funding had been reduced significantly aud many institutions
were finding that their equipment was severely out of date.
2.12 At the same time, the institutional mechanisms for setting and
enforcing priorities for scientific development were not effective. The
scientific community had little role in science decision-making, and the
award of research grants was often politicized and usually highly
bureaucratic. The key funding agencies, especially CNPq, FINEP and CAPES,
operated in isolation from one another other and from the science
community, and the interface between basic and applied research was
inadequate. Inadequate support services, especially for maintenance of
science equipment, provision of consumables, and metrology services,
seriously constrained research productivity. Finally, a poor policy
environment discouraged private sector investment in R&D and there were
inadequate linkages between basic research, usually undertaken in
universities, and the productive sector.
2.13 Faced with these problems, in 1983 the Brazilian government
approached the World Bank with a request for revamping the management of
public funds and developing research capacity in key scientific areas.
During the course of project preparation, the Bank identified the sector
issues and problems described above and discussed ways of remedying them.
The result was the establishment of the Support Program for Scientific and
Technological Development (PADCT) in 1985. PADCT was supported by a US$72



5
million loan from the Bank (Loan 2489-BR, Science and Technology Sector
Project signed February, 1985), and by Government counterpart expenditures
of US$107 million equivalent. The nature and objectives of this project,
especially its institution building focus, are discussed below.
2.14 From 1985 to early 1990, the government's support of science and
technology suffered from excessive changes at the top, a confused
organizational structure, and a lack of clear policy. PADCT was one of the
few elements of continuity and relative funding assurance in the system.
The government which took office in March, 1990, is making a major and
impressive attempt at improving management of the science and technology
system, with the Secretariat of Science and Technology (SCT) taking the
role of the main policy and coordinating unit of the government in the
sector. The new appointees to high level positions in the sector have
strong qualifications. A variety of new ideas are currently being
implemented or are under discussion, among the most important of which are
the recent announcement of a new industrial policy, a new policy on
informatics, a review of intellectual property laws, and the possible
restructuring and streamlining of CNPq and FiNEP. The new SCT is
initiating work on a 'white paper" which will define issues, priorities and
policies in the sector. Annex 4 provides the terms of reference for this
study.
Suonort Proaram for Scientific and Technological Develooment (PADCT)
2.15 PADCT was conceived mainly as a program to foster human capital
formation (via graduate training and support for R&D) in selected areas.
Basic research received special attention under the premise that the
understanding of fundamental scientific principles is essential to ensure
rapid innovation in fast-paced technological fields. Both graduate
training and bas3c research, in turn, were identified as activities with
quasi-public good characteristics. Support for engineering education was
included since these specialists enable basic research to be translated
into practical applications and ensure that an adequate interface is
established between the laboratory and the work place. InAustrial
technology development was also addressed via sub-projects designed to
strengthen the standards, testing, information and quality control
infrastructure of the country, with special attention being given to
training activities. rhe PADCT I institutional design was intended to
increase the effectiveness of science investments through eliminating waste
(e.g., redundancy and politically determined allocation of resources) by
emphasizing science community participation in sectoral planning. as well
as peer review, competition and transparency in the process of awarding of
grants.
2.16 Nature of Support. PADCT I provides financial support through
competitive grants for graduate training and basic research in
biotechnology, chemistry and chemical engineering, geosciences and mineral
technology, and instrumentation. It also finances the support areas of
science information, science research consumables, maintenance of
scientific equipment, science plauning and management, science education at
the primary and secondary levels, and basic industrial technology (e.g.,



6
strengthening of government se:vices to industry in the areas of
measurement, standardization ard quality cortrol).  Support is .-;rovided
mainly for equipment purchase and ror r   nr.g in Lzazil and abroad.  PADCT
currently accounts for 6k: of the Goven  ..t's efforc in R&D d,rected Lt
universities and research _nstitute, mo.t of wnich is in the foal of
scholarshiv.., salary support, and r.on-co,mpetative i-.stitutiona. support.
It is one *,.. Tni few science progrziiis of the gover.=.ent waich ; ?worts
specific  s .1 tic areas and wita speciZic institutiona. devoQuiment
goals.
2.17  The 1.DCT i-supporWed scient, Fic a.-e&s of chemistry, bolay,
geology, and instrumentation were selected because of the neea  vo develop
human resources capacity an these areas to ensure adequate c;.-c-y for
teaching and for R&D, and, ultimately, to contribute to techro.s;ica.
innovation. Brazil's peculiar and diverse flora and fauna as wall as its
wealth of mineral resources argued for the investment in biotec.-.7ology and
geology. Chemistry and chemical engineering were included because they are
building blocks for other sciences and because of historical under-
investment in this area. Instrumentation was included as a means of
linking physics a.d engineering to industrial design and development.  Trhe
various support areas were identified as key bottlenecks to the underta4cing
of scientific research. In particular, it was found that much
sophisticated science equipment was under-utilized because of lack of a
maintenance system, many scientific experiments were compromised becausa of
lack of a system of provision of imported chemicals and other consumables,
and research was hampered by inadequate access to timely and systematic
information on Brazilian and world-wide developments. Support for science
education at the primary and secondary level, as well as support for
developing the capacity to analyze science issues and manage science
systems, were considered essential long term investments in the sector.
2.18 Support for basic industrial technology was included because of
Brazil's weakness in areas such as metrology and quality control, the
strengthening of which will be essential if Brazil is to compete in
international markets. Especially since the Second World War, a complex
system of norms and standards has been established in industrialized
countries to guide industrial production. Liability and safety legislation
and the related development of specialized insurance markets have further
underpinned this system. The system of standards and norms and its
supporting metrology system contribute to the achievement of two economic
objectives: (i) product uniformity and compatibility, which lead to
economies of scale and long runs throughout industry; and (ii)
improvements in product quality which lead to better perform.nce and fewer
rejects.
2.19 The specific objectives as well as the experience to date in these
ten sub-programs are described in Annex 3. The amounts of local and
foreign exchange provided to each PADCT I sub-program are summarized in
Tables 1 and 2.



7
2.20 Institutional Design. The institutional design of PADCT I emphasized
giving scientists a greater role in sectoral decision making; establishing
a strong and open system of peer review for awarding research contracts;
encouraging greater interaction between basic and applied research; and
supporting multi-year integrated research and training projects. Under
PADCT I independent committees consisting mainly of practicing scientists
prepared sub-sector strategies. The Bank agreed on the overall objectives
of sub-programs and monitors the decision-making process in the course of
implementation but does not review or approve individual research projects.
Committees with a preponderance of representatives of the scientific and
business community prepare requests for proposals (editais) in broad
scientific areas. These requests are subsequently evaluated by ad-hoc
committees with similar representation. Most proposals come from
universities and non-profit research institutes. Some projects are
executed directly by government agencies or by agencies that fall under
their immediate supervision. Multi-year contracts are signed with one of
four financing agencies (CNPq, FINEP, CAPES, and, until recently, the
Executive Secretariat of the Ministry of Industry) for financial support
covering equipment, training, and incremental operating costs. The
government agency assumes responsibility for project supervision. The
institutional design includes a fifteen-member international advisory group
(Special Advisory Group--GEA), composed of renowned Brazilian and foreign
scientists, which conducts once a year an extensive evaluation of the
scientific merits of the program. An Executive Secretariat (SE) located in
the SCT manages the project. FINEP, the main financial agent for PADCT,
handles the flow of loan funds. CNPq has overall responsibility for
importation of equipment; until recently it processed requests for import
licenses, arranging for shipments and delivery, and approving payments for
all imports under PADCT. A detailed description of the decision-making and
implementation process under PADCT is provided in paras. 6.1-6.8, which
describe the mechanism for implementation of PADCT II which is
substantially the same as that of PADCT I. Chart 2 provides a flow chart
of the decision making process.
2.21 Under the PADCT I loan agreement, the Bank finances 10OZ of the cost
of imported equipment, and overseas scholarship and training for PADCT, as
well as a portion of its administrative costs. The Government of Brazil,
in turn, finances local equipment and operating costs. PADCT currently
accounts for about 6% of the Government's effort in university based
science research and training, and for 20% of funds available on a
competitive basis for research proposals, excluding those funds which are a
part of ongoing programs of institutional support.
2.22 Implementation. PADCT had a very difficult beginning, mainly
because some Government agencies were initially opposed to the idea of
devolution of decision-making, and also because the scientific community
took some time to develop the maturity necessary to make difficult
decisions collectively, such as award of large contracts. Over the last
two years both the agencies and the community have become strong supporters
of PADCT, the continuation and expansion of which is now considered
essential for long term scientific development in Brazil, both to
consolidate the institutional changes achieved and to ensure continuity in



8
financing key programs. Overall the institutional changes brought about by
PADCT have been striking. PADCT has greatly improved the sectoral
decision-making process through strengthening processes such as sub-sector
planning and priority-setting, peer review and open competition for grants.
The scientific community has developed an increasing maturity in exercising
effectively its planning and peer review responsibility (e.g., initially
rewards were dribbled out in small packets; now committees focus on larger
awards to develop national centers of excellence) and it considers
continuation of PADCT essential for the country's long term research and
scientific development. In addition, the program is now beginning to have
an impact through improving the human resource base for scientific research
and development. A number of promising lines of research have been
initiated, some of which have already resulted in industrial applications.
By mid 1990 PADCT had supported over 900 research projects in over
140 universities and research institutes. According to the most recent GEA
report, the program has successfully improved the decision-making process,
and it is strengthening manpower and institutions. Recent results of note
which have been supported directly or indirectly by PADCT include the
discovery of gold in the Amazon, the development of a leishmania vaccine,
the improvement of the amino acid content of bean plants, and new process
control and measurement devices now in commercial production. Almost 1002
of funds have been committed. Because of the lag time between award of
contracts and purchase of equipment, as well as the problems noted below,
about 722 of loan funds had been disbursed by mid-1990. Table 2 shows the
situation in disbursement by sub-program.
2.23 The most critical problem in the implementation of PADCT I has been
an inadequate system for importing scientific equipment and materials.
Until recently such inadequacy prevented timely disbursement of loan
proceeds. Management weaknesses in CNPq, which was responsible for all of
PADCT importation, were the main impediment to more rapid importation. In
addition, until recently Brazilian law required that, before importing any
science equipment, it was necessary to show that no similar Brazilian
product existed (law of 'similarities*). Since May 1989, a new PADCT
management team has significantly improved the importation process, through
decentralizing responsibilities to individual universities identified as
possessing the necessary capacity to undertake importation with their own
staff, and streamlining CNPq procedures. At the SCT's initiative, Congress
recently passed a law exempting science equipment imports from import
licensing requirements, including "similarity" review. The Government is
currently acting to remove quantitative restrictions on all imports, which
will further simplify the importation process.
2.24 PADCT has shown that, if it is to work, decision making in science
and technology needs to be decentralized. At the same time, an extended
learning period is needed to develop the capacity to adequately manage a
decentralized system. With decentralization, users of Government services
have been developing into potent lobbies. In Brazil scientists have become
strong and vocal supporters of increased transparency and more effective
science sector management.



9
Private Sector Investment in R&D
2.25 As noted in par. 2.3, the private sector accounts for only 202 of
total investment in R&D, compared to 81Z in Korea and 52? in the U.S.A.
This low level of investment did not seem to affect Brazil,s economic
growth in the 1960's and 1970's, mainly because growth was achieved through
import substitution and importation of foreign technology. With the
growing importance of technological innovation, low private sector
investment in innovation threatens to become a critical barrier to future
productivity gains in Brazil.
2.26 Brazil's deteriorated macroeconomic condition has been one of the
strongest disincentives to private sector capital investment in general.
Large public deficits have led to high inflation rates and high interest
rates, which have strongly encouraged investors to concentrate their funds
in liquid assets, given the resulting uncertainty about the future. An
improvement in the macroeconomic situation is therefore the most urgent
short-term requirement for establishing a climate for productivity growth.
The present Government has initiated a program of macro-economic adjustment
which, if satisfactorily implemented, would substantially improve this
environment.
2.27 A host of barriers to competition have also substantially reduced
the incentive of firms to remain or become competitive in terms of product
quality or process efficiency. Non-tariff import barriers operated in such
a way in the 1980's that Imports of virtually any industrial product which
was also produced in Brazil were, de facto, banned, even if the national
product was far higher in price and inferior in performance
characteristics. Moreover, in many (but by no means all) industrial
sectors, domestic competition was severely limited by regulations
discouraging new entrants. In addition, fiscal and financial incentives
(and broader forms of public support in the case of state-owned
enterprises) supported the dominant position of a few firms and discouraged
these often inefficient firms from diminishing their level of activity. It
is true that exporting firms face significant international competition and
that the level of industrial exports has grown. But in fact Brazil has one
of the lowest levels of exports among the large economies of the world: it
is the eighth largest industrial producer (outside of the centrally planned
economies) but only the nineteenth industrial exporter. The new Government
has set as its goal the opening of the Brazilian economy to international
competition. It announced the end of quantitative restrictions on imports,
including the law of similarities, and is setting up a system of tariffs
which, while very high at present, is to be progressively reduced. The
Government also intends to privatize the major state enterprises. Programs
are just beginning in most of these areas.
2.28 Another area of concern over the long term is that of barriers to
the firm-level appropriation of knowledge.  In essence, the more that
knowledge 's easy to *steal*, the more that firms will be discouraged from
investing in creating knowledge, since they will have greater difficulty in
appropriating the income from it. The public stibsidy of education and
training, basic research, and, sometimes inform ion provision, solves part



10
of the problem for the firm, but a system of intellectual property rights
(patents, copyright, trade secrets) is also important to encourage firms to
invest in R&D. Brazil has developed such a system, though it is weaker
than its counterparts in industrialized countries. In particular, while
its laws are relatively strong, Brazil has weak enforcement of patent and
copyrights. With regard to trade secrets, the legal protection afforded to
Brazilian firms for aknow-how' which might not be patentable (e.g., key
employees leaving the firm and using proprietary 'know-how") is inadequate.
Brazil will need to strengthen its intellectual property system as the
general environment for innovation stdrts to improve and as firms move into
higher technology production. The new Government has recently become aware
of these issues. In connection with GATT negotiations, the Government has
decided to conform to international patent practices in the area of
pharmaceuticals. The Government recently established a commission to
examine overall issues related to strengthening its intellectual property
and trade secrets legislation and enforcement as a means of encouraging
industrial innovation.
2.29 The costs of technology transfer also have an impact on the
character of firm-level R&D spending, i.e., through decisions on whether to
concentrate on improving existing technologies from abroad or developing
wholly-Brazilian technology. The level of technology transfer is low in
comparison with other countries and Brazil could benefit from greater
reliance on technology transfer and adaptation to local conditions. At
present, technology transfer is regulated on a case-by-case basis by the
national patent office (INPI), which must approve contracts before they are
registered and go into force. The regulations have evolved, in conformity
with a law which stipulates general conditions for technology transfer,
into a system in which INPI makes judgments both on the desirability of a
firm purchasing a disembodied technology and on the terms of the transfer
(including its costs). INPI relies on "expert groupss composed of
representatives of all interested communities to arrive at its judgments.
The Government is considering a system which would shift this
responsibility to firms which would then certify that a contract conformed
to the law's objectives, while re-orienting INPI's role to promotion,
information, and technical assistance.
2.30 Informatics is of particular relevance for ;.dustrial innovation
because the use of increasingly sophisticated computer hardware and
software is associated closely with technological modernization, quality
control, and productivity enhancement. Informatics has also been a sector
which previous Governments promoted extensively with market reservation and
financial enhancements. The present Administration recognizes many of the
problems created in the application of the Informatics Law of 1984 and
signalled its intention to institute changes by withdrawing the 3-year plan
submitted by the previous administration and preparing its own submission
to the Congress. This revised plan fouses on: a) reducing or eliminating
the reserved markets in areas which stand little chance of being
competitive in the near future (possibilities include microelectronics and
industrial robotics and control systems); b) reducing or eliminating the
reserved markets in areas in which Brazil is already competitive such as
financial systems; c) maintaining the market reserve in areas with



11
reasonable competitive potential, but applying the coverage more narrowly
(e.g., allowing imports of laser printers which Brazil is not now
producing); d) where they are eliminated, replacing market rsserves with
tariffs similar to those for other industrial goods (40-601 range); e)
announcing that the Government will tot seek an extension of the market
reserve clause of the present law beyond its statutory expiration in 1992,
and announcing the tariff levels which Brazilian firms will have to face
afterwards; f) liberalizing the import of software and eliminating where
possible the monopoly allowed to domestic producers; and g) liberalizing
the rules for joint ventures.
2.31 Certainly not the least in importance, Brazil lacks adequate trained
manpower for a modern and dynamic economy. In 1980, 73Z of the Brazilian
labor force had less than a complete primary education, a figure which is
one of the highest among middle income countries. The gap between Brazil
and other countries is particularly acute at the secondary level. In 1987,
Brazil's total secondary enrollments represented only an estimated 37Z of
the secondary school-aged population, well below the average for middle-
income developing countries (Brazil's heavy investment in occupational
training has to some extent compensated for the weaknesses of the formal
school system). Low levels of basic education and skills among workers are
not compatible with the task-complexity, precision, and consistency
required in modern, technology-intensive industry. At the university
level, financial difficulties and the large expansion of undergraduate
enrollment since the 1970's have adversely affected educational quality.
In addition, as noted above, poor management of the public funds available
for R&D has discouraged entry and retention of qualified manpower in
science.
III. BANK SECTOR STRATEGY
3.1 The Bank's overall assistance strategy to Brazil supports policies
and investmerts that encourage economic growth and social development in a
context of macroeconomic stability, with an emphasis on efficient resource
allocation in the public sector and the appropriate targeting and delivery
of support services to the poor. The main focus of the Bank's human
resources strategy in Brazil is on redirection of public spending to those
social programs that are largely public goods, such as primary education,
basic health care, and science training, research and information.
3.2 In the education sector, Bank involvement began in the early 1970's
with projects supporting general secondary, technical, and agricultural
education. Subsequelit support has been for vocational training programs
(1977), basic education in the Northeast (1980), technical education
(1983), urban basic education in the North and Center-West (1984),
scientific research (1985), and vocational training (1987). The Bank's
main priority in the 1990's is to support primary education, which is the



12
weakest link in the education system and which requires major institutional
improvements. Implementation of the two projects approved In the last
decade focussing on basic education in poor North and Northeast regions has
been difficult, though the projects have had some success. A proposed
basic education project will provide US$24S million to support the state of
Sao Paulo's efforts to strengthen basic education In metropolitan Sao
Paulo, which has a large concentration of poor Immaigrants from the
Northeast, in a manner which eventually could lead to adoption of similar
approaches in other regions of the country. The Bank has been discussing a
major new project in basic education in the Northeast since 1986, but until
recently turnover in the Ministry of Education as well as lack of interest
by senior federal government officials frustrated efforts at reaching
agreement on a set of institutional and policy goals. A project is
currently under preparation.
3.3 The Bank will also support other areas of the education and training
system where it can have an influence on institution-building and improve
efficiency of Government action in areas which are public goods. Bank
support for science research and graduate-level training is an example of
this element of Bank strategy, since it encourages redirection of public
resources into a set of activities which the private sector will not
finance, and helps to ensure improved management wlthin the public sector
of science investments. In particular, a second project in the area helps
to conscl.idate the still fragile institutional reforms made in the first
project, such as open competition, peer review, and decentralized planning,
as well as rationalization of the importation process and strengthening of
industrial norms. Bank support also reduces the risks of discontinuity in
research efforts that might result from disruptions in the availability of
foreign equipment and materials in a period of financial constraints. In
addition, through support for highly visible studies on key sectoral
issues, a second project will encourage awareness and influence policy
making on issues affecting the long-term economic returns to science
investments.
3.4 The Bank has also supported research activities in previous loans to
Brazil in agriculture and energy. Assistance for applied research on
farming systems and crop-specific productions technology has been provided
through Loans 1249-BR and 2016-BR to the Brasilian Enterprise for
Agricultural and Live Stock Research (EmDresa Brasileira de Pesguisas
Azronecuarias-EMBRAPA). Both have been effective in producing and
disseminating research results and helping to improve EMBRAPA's capacity to
manage research. A new loan to EMBRAPA (Loan 3130-BR, for US$47,0 million,
signed January 10, 1990), mainly supports agricultural research in the
Amazon and Northeast. Loan 1989-BR, for the government's Alcohol and
Biomass Energy Program, provided funds for research on various aspects of
alcohol production systems. An Environment loan (Loan 3173-BR, for
US$117.0 million (signed on August 16, 1990) supports research on specific
environmental issues in the Amazon and Northeast.



13
XV. U   SCIECE USEARO  mm imam  ERR=
Pro1ect Orisin and Obiect*ves
4.1  initial steps for a second phase of PADCT begat ' My, 1987, with a
letter to the bank from the Secretary General of the blaiatry of Science
and Technology. At that time progress in PADCT I was inadequate to justify
initiating discussions on e second phase. As PADCT I iplementation
improved, serious preparation for a second project began, and first drafts
of the proposed sub-programs were prepared In 1988. In October-November,
1989, a pro-appraisal mission reviewed all the proposals, project
management issues, and sectoral issues related to the conditions under
which PADCT would have the desired eventual impact oan economic development
through increased innovation in the productive sector. Appraisal was
undertaken in May-June 1990 and negotiations in August 1990. In accordance
with the PADCT methodology of decision-making by technical committees
(Grupos Tecnicos--GTs) with wide representation from the science and
business coammmities, hundreds of practicing scientists, engineers,
economists, and industry representatives participated in the project
preparation effort. The result was high quality project documents as well
as a consensus on goals and strategies.
4.2 The project's main objective is to consolldate and extend the gains
made under the previous project in human resource development and in
institutional reform. The project will strengthen human resource
development iA specific science areas through support for science research
and graduate training. The project will continue to beek improved
management and decision-making through an emphasis on open competition for
research grants, extensive interaction on policy and other matters between
government agencies and the scientific comunity, and greater continuity
and integration in the financing of research projects. Through preparation
of studies and plans, the project will also help to Increase public
understanding of issues affecting the management of the publicly supported
system of scientific research and the environment for technological
innovation in the private sector. Like the previous project, PADCT II will
be a sector-type operation.
Proiect Descriution
4.3 The project will continue to support the ten scientific and related
areas included under PADCT I--biotechnology, chemLstry and chemical
engineering, geosciences and mineral technology, instrumentation, science
education, science planning and management, science equLpment maintenance,
science consumables, science information, and basie industrial technology.
In addition, the project will support two new areass new materials and
environmental sciencRe. New materials, defined as the development of
materials with properties which do not appear ia nature, has been included
because of recent major advances in knowledge in areas such as ceramics,
metallics, polymers, and composites which are affecting Industrial
processes and output. 3rasil needs to develop its human resource capacity



14
in this area, eventually hoping to stregthen sectors as diverse as the
automobile, petrochemical and fiber optics industries. Support for
environmental science has been included to complement the recently signed
Environment Project, which focuses on strengthening government environment
agencies' capacity to deal with specific environment problems. The
environment sub-program will have the more general objective of human
resource development and of establishing and supporting inter-disciplinary
research teams. The objectives, content, estimated budget, and expected
beneficiaries of each of the twelve sub-programs are described in detail in
Annex 3 and in Tables 3 and 5. Support will be provided in the following
areas: purchase of equipment and materials to strengthen research and
training; scholarships for graduate and post-graduate training in Brazil
and abroad; training programs for practicing researchurs and for
technicians; visiting professorships; hiring of researchers and support
staff to implement specific research programs; minor civil works and
refurbishing; organization of seminars and meetings; provision of
information services and publishing of bulletins, reports, and periodicals;
and monitoring and evaluation of research and training projects. It is
expected that funds will be expended as followss equipment, 46?; training,
14X; consultants, 8Z; research expenses, 31Z; and minor civil works and
refurbishing, 1Z. Potential beneficiaries include 60 universities; 80
research institutes; 2400 practicing scientists; 6600 graduate students;
25,700 undergraduate students (primarily indirectly through improved
facilities and teaching); 135,000 primary and secondary school teachers
(under the science education sub-program); over 5000 technicians and
managers in private industry (through training programs under the basic
industrial technology sub-program); and the informed general public
(through information servic9s, publications, meetings, reports in the mass
media, science museums, etc.).
4.4 The Bamk has appraised and approved the project operational
guidelines, which are incorporated into the Basic Document (Documento
Basico) and Operational Manual (Manual Operacional), and summarized in
paras. 6.1 - 6.6, and the detailed content and objectives of each sub-
program, which are incorporated in documents prepared by the technical
committees of scientists, government officials, and industry
representatives (GT's), and are summarized in Annex 3. Based on these
documents the GT's will prepare requests for proposals (editais), which
will be evaluated by ad-hoc committees with similar representation, after
which awards will be made. The Bank does not review or approve individual
awards except in terms of their conformity with the operational guidelines
and the sub-program documents. Any changes in the PADCT operational
guidelines and in the sub-program documents, as well as funding allocations
to sub-prbgrams, will need to be acceptable to the Bank. In view of the
recent changes in the Government's trade policies, which have greatly
simplified the importation process, SARDI (except the helium gas program),
which was designed to assist in bulk procurement of imported chemicals and
other consumables, was eliminated from the Project.
4.5 As part of the project, the Government will undertake two studies.
The first, to be completed six months after loan signing (estimated to be
June 30, 1991), will be a study of issues and policies in the sector. The



15
study will review issues related to (a) the long term role of science and
technology in Brazil's economic development, (b) improving management,
organization, and decision making in the sector, and (c) improving the
environment for innovation in the private sector. Annex 4 provides terms
of reference. In some cases, government policy has already been formulated
and the report will explain and justify the steps taken to date. In other
cases, the study will propose new policies and programs. Where answers are
not forthcoming, the study will identify an agenda for research and for
further policy analysis. The office of the Science and Technology
Secretariat will contract a small group of high level economists,
scientists, engineers, and management experts to prepare the pape-.
Successive drafts of the study will be reviewed by a small advisory group
of distinguished scientists (including those from the GEA), engineers,
economists, industrialists, government officials in other ministries, and,
eventually, the public. A condition of loan effectiveness will be that the
terms of reference and detailed work program for the study are acceptable
to the Bank. Th- Bank will comment or. the draft of the report. 'the
Government will inform the Bank of actions it intends to take based on the
recommendations of this first study.
4.6 The second study, to be completed by October 30, 1992, to be carried
out by an independent commission, will review issues related to improving
industrial productivity in Brazil. The study will complement the current
changes in Government policy designed to make the economy more outward-
oriented and competitive in world markets. In addition to changes in
government policy itself, a successful transition to a more competitive
industrial sector will require changes in behavioral Datterns of firms,
relations between management and employees, and relations between the
productive sector, government, education, and the science and technology
community. The productivity study will contribute to an understanding of
these issues by undertaking a broad investigation of industrial
productivity and the technological situation currently in Brazil. In
particular, the study will attempt to isolate the most important factors
explaining the present quality, technological, and productivit- weaknesses
in Brazilian industry. Its recommendations will be directed to all
relevant groups -- management, labor, education, researchers, and
government. The results of the study will be expected to have a
substantial impact on corporate strategic planning especially in the areas
of research and development and technology adaptation, government policy in
science and technology, program direction and linkages with the productive
sectors in Brazilian research centers, and on the science and engineering
curriculuz in the education sector. Annex 5 provides draft terms of
reference, as well as expected timing and costs. A condition of
effectiveness will be completion of terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank and selection of Commission members with qualifications acceptable to
the Bank. A condition of disbursement of loan funds for the study will be
completion of a detailed work program for the study which would be
acceptable to the Bank. The Bank will comment on interim and final drafts
of the study. The Government will inform the Bank of actions it intends to
take based on the recommendations of this study.



16
V. 110310? COS? AND MMRANCING PLN
Cost of tes Protect
5.1. The estimated cost for PADT II is JUS$600.0m1lion to be cam=1tted
over a five year period and spent over an eight year period (1991-98). in
view of the large amuts involved, as weil as future economic
uncertainties, PADCT II wil be financed and implemented Ln two roughly
equal stages. The proposed project will finance the firat stage or tim
slice, In which funds will be cmitted over a two and half year period and
spent over a five year period. The estimted cost of the first stage is
US$300.0 million. The total foreLgn exchange cost is estimted at US$206.5
million for the fll progrm end US$103.  milion for the first stage.
Table 5.1 provides a Binary of the full program and the fist stage of the
program.



17
Table 5.1: Brasils Science Res-- .ch and Tralnina Proiect
Full and Half ?roara. '.lost. Smmar
In millions of US$
------------------------_-_--.----------------------------------------__
Subprogram                             Local  Foreign   Total        x
Full Program:
(a) Research Subprograms
Biotechnology                           45.6     34.4     80.0     13.3
Chemistry and Chemical Enginnering      68.0     40.8    108.8     18.1
Geosciences and Mineral Technology      51.4     24.0     75.4     12.6
Instrumentation                         28.0      9.6    37.6       6.3
Environment                             21.0      8.4    29.4       4.9
New Materials                           29.6    42.4    72.0    12.0
(b) Support Subprograms
Science Planning and Management          6.6      3.0      9.6      1.6
Science Education                       34.2      9.8     44.0      7.3
Science Information                     11.6      0.8     12.4      2.1
Consumables                              8.8      4.8     13.6      2.3
Maintenance                             18.4      3.0     21.4      3.6
Basic Industrial Technology             48.6     24.2     72.8     12.1
Subtotals     371.8    205.2    577.0     96.2?
(c) Studles                              1.9      0.3      2.2      0.42
(d) Administration                      19.8      1.0     20.8      3.42
Totals     393.5    206.5    600.0    100.0?
First Half of Protram:
(a) Research Subprograms
Biotechnology                           22.8     17.2     40.0     13.3
Chemistry and Chemical Engineering      34.0     20.4     54.4     18.1
Geosciences and Mineral Technology      25.7     12.0     37.7     12.6
Instrumentation                         14.0      4.8     18.8      6.3
Environment                             10.5      4.2    14.7       4.9
New Materials                           14.8    21.2    36.0    12.0
(b) Support Subprograms
Science Planning and Management          3.3      1.5      4.8      1.6
Science Education                       17.1      4.9     22.0      7.3
Science Information                      5.8      0.4      6.2      2.1
Consumables                              4.4      2.4      6.8      2.3
Maintenance                              9.2      1.5    10.7       3.6
Basic Industrial Technology             24.3     12.1     36.4     12.1
Subtotals    185.9    102.6   288.5    96.2?



18
In millions of US$
Subprogram                             Local  Foreign   Total         Z
---------.--------------------------------------_-------------------__--
Full Proarams
(c) Studies                              1.9      0.3      2.2      0.72
(d) Administration                       8.8      0.5      9.3      3.1S
Totals     196.6    103.4    300.0      1002
5.2 Costs are expressed in US dollars because of the unpredictability of
country inflation and devaluation rates during the implementation period.
The estimation of the foreign exchange amount of the PADCT II, including
the purchase of scientific equipment, overseas training, and consultants,
is based on experiences of the first project. There are no contingencies,
price or physical, incorporated ;n the tables because the PADCT is a sector
program. There are no identifiable local taxes. Overall the project will
finance the costs of equipment, training, and stipends for an estimated 900
projects under the twelve PADCT sub-programs. Detailed costs by category
of expenditure are shown in Annex Tables 3.2 and 3.3.
5.3 The size of PADCT II is not large in comparison with past support and
absorptive capacity in the sector. Over the past decade the costs of
scientific equipment, which amount to 30Z of project costs, have increased
at an estimated rate of 102 per year because of a combination of general
inflation and an increase in sophistication of components. As a result,
real expenditures in all of the larger sub-programs (e.g., chemistry,
geological sciences, biotechnology, instrumentation, maintenance, and basic
industrial technology) will increase only modestly on a yearly basis from
PADCT I to PADCT II, with an overall increase in annual funding per sub-
program in constant dollars from PADCT I to PADCT II of about 72. After a
long start-up period, the administrative structures are now in place and
potential recipient universities and research institutes have a more than
adequate capacity to absorb the amount of funds proposed. Because of new
Government policies, importation processes will be greatly simplified.
Overall, the PADCT II amount is equivalent to about 102 of direct
Government investment in S&T (compared to 6? in the case of PADCT I), most
of which is for general research support and is not targeted as is PADCT.
PADCT II will account for about 40Z of discretionary funding in the sector
(i.e., funds available on a competitive basis for research proposals and
which are not part of an ongoing program of institutional support).
Therefore it will be a major element of the Government's discretionary
funding.



19
5.4 The allocations among sub-programs are based on judgments of needs
and absorptive capacity in each sub-sector. The areas of greatest
importance in financial terms are the key science areas of chemistry,
because of its importance as a building block for specialized research and
applications in other areas; bio-technology and geology, because of
Brazil's unique flora, fauna, and extensive mineral resourcest and new
materials. These basic science areas also require higbly sophisticated and
expensive imported equipment. Compared to PADCT X, science education has
the highest increase in absolute terms because of the acknowledged success
of the program as well as the need to establish a broad base of science
literacy at the primary and secondary levels. Within each sub-program, the
technical committees have built up the cost estimates on the basis of
experience to date and on plans far support of a restricted number of
programs anid research projects in identified areas. These programs and
projects have not yet been formally identified, since awares will be made
on a competitive basis over the course of project implementation.
5.5 Estimates of administrative costs are based on experience to date and
cover the staff of the Executive Secretariat of PADCT; staff in CNPq.
FINEP, and CAPES involved in project implementationt meetings and honoraria
for the various technical and evaluation committees; publications and
announcetments; and meetings of the PADCT Coordinating Committee (CC) and of
the Review and Advisory Group (GRA). At 3.1Z of total expenditures, the
amount of administrative costs is reasonable considering the need to
select, finance, and monitcr hundreds of research and training projects.
Financing Plan
5.6 The project will finance the time slice covering the first half of
the PADCT II program through a proposed World Bank loan of US$150 million
and Government counterpart funds of US$150 million. The Brazilian
Government is currently seeking financing for the remainder of the program
from other sources as well as possibly from the World Bank two or three
years from now. Universities will contribute to the financing of the
program in an undetermined amount through provision of overhead, services,
and salaries of already contracted researchers. The financiL0 plan for the
first half of PADCT II is as follows:
Table 5.2: Proiect Financint Plan
(First Half of Program)
(In US$ million)
Local  Foreign   Total        Z
-Government of Brazil                  150.0      0.0    150.0      50.0
-IBRD                                   46.6    103.4    150.0     50.0
Totals    196.6    103.4    300.0      lOOZ
…_______________________________________________________________________



20
The proposed Bank loan will cover 1002 of the foreign exchange cost of the
project (mainly overseas scholarships and purchase of equipment), and 251
of local costs other than administration and the productivity study. The
Government funds will cover 75Z of local project costs and 10OC of local
costs of administration and the productivity study. A condition of loan
effectiveness will be that the Government will allocate adequate
counterpart funds for the first calendar year of project implementation.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Organizatior and Management
6.1 PADCT II builds on the existing system of financing science research
through GAPES, CNPq, and FINEP. The administration of PADCT II involves
these agencies, which act as funding intermediaries, an Executive
Secretariat (SE) mainly involved in coordination, and a set of boards and
committees having specific policy and operational functions. The Basic
Document and Operational Manual of PADCT set out in detail the
responsibilities of the various agencies involved. The key features of the
operational guidelines, which have been approved by the Bank, ares ti)
decisions on award of sub-projects shall be in the hands of technical
committees consisting mainly of members of the science and business
communities; (ii) research awards shall be made on a competitive basis;
(iii) awards shall be made taking in due consideration the need to
strengthen existing centers of excellence, and to provide multi-year
support, in accordance with guidelines for minimum and average size of
grants stated in the operational guidelines; (iv) inflation corrections
shall be made to ensure that the real value of awards is retained; (v) an
international advisory group (GEA) shall meet regularly to provide an
independent analysis of project implementation and effectivenesss and (vi)
the Government shall ensure that importation is carried out in a timely
manner, including ensuring that the FESA is operated in such manner as to
permit the timely carrying out of importation. Furthermore, to ensure the
improvement of scientific metrology services, a technical committee,
composed of experts whose qualifications and experience should be
satisfactory to the Bank, will be appointed within two months af er loan
effectiveness and for the duration of the project. This technical
committee will review all proposals for financing of equipment and training
for primary and secondary metrology laboratories. All such proposals will
include information on availability of qualified technical staff and on
steps to be taken to improve provision of metrology services including
training and recruitment of staff and improved management. In order to
ensure flexibility, up to 2U? of awards will be made for proposals which
may not fall within a specific edital but which conform to sub-program
objectives. Preference in these cases will be given to ongoing projects of



21
merit requiring continuation. Chart 2 provides a grapbic summary of the
PADCT agencies and decision tree which is described below. Any changes in
PADCT operational guidelines and sub-program documents, as well as
allocations Among sub-programs, will be acceptable to the Bank. A
condition of effectiveness will be signing of agreements with FINEP and
CNPq, which are autonomous agencies, acceptable to the Bank, for these
agencies to implement their respective parts of the project.
6.2 Executive Secretary (SE) of the PADCT. Management and coordination
responsibility for PADCT is vested in the SE, which is located with the
Coordination of Programs Department of the SCT. The SE includes an
Executive Secretary and a Deputy Secretary, who are appointed by the SCT;
one senior official from each of the four intermediary agencies appointed
by their respective executive heads; and support staff. The qualifications
and experience of the Executive Secretary shall be acceptable to the Bank.
The SE functions includes (i) control of the flow of program resources to
the intermediary agencies; (ii) logistical support for the meetings of the
CC, GT's and review groups; (iii) monitoring the application of PADCT
operational guidelines; (iv) helping to ensure that importation is
undertaken in a timely manner; (v) helping to ensure that counterpart funds
reach users in real value and in a timely maaner (see para. 4.4); (vi)
preparation of all PADCT documentation including subprogram announcements,
application forms, aad newsletters widely distributed to the science and
business communities; (vii) consolidation of PADCT program records from the
intermediary agencies; and (viii) preparation of PADCT monitoring and
evaluation reports on the basis of information submitted by the
intermediary agencies. The Executive Secretary of the SE also holds the
position of head of the Department of Coordination of Programs. This
arrangement assures a high level management position for the Executive
Secretary.
6.3 Coordinatin Committee (CC). The CC is responsible for: (i)
recommending to the Secretary of Science and Technology the appointment of
ST members selected from triple lists prepared by the SE board with inputs
from the science and technology community; (ii) examining the PADCT II
yearly operation plans submitted by the SE, and recommending its approval
(or revision) to the Secretary of Science and Technology; and (iii)
recommending to the Secretary of Science and Technology, after proper
examination, approval of requests made by the SE, after due consideration
by GEA, for reallocation of resources among the PADCT II sub-programs.
Such reallocation is subject to Bank approval. The CC is comprised of the
heads of CAPES, FINEP, and CNPq, the Executive Secretary of PADCT, three
representatives from the scientific and technological community and two
representatives from industry. The CC was recently reformulated to reduce
its functions and increase from one to two the numbers of industry
representatives.
6.4 Technical Grouvs (GT's). The GT's, one for each sub-program,
undertake the detailed planning, supervision, and evaluation of PADCT sub-
programs. GT's are expected to meet at least three times per year to issue
timely calls for proposals (editais) in accordance with the objectives
elaborated in the sub-program document. Each GT consists of one member of



22
the technical staff of the four funding intermediaries, plus a minimum of
eight practicing scientists, engineers and business representatives (with
Ph.D's or equivalent and who direct research or have equivalent
responsibilities) not connected to the funding agencies. GT chairmen are
selected by the Secretary of Science and Technology on recommendation of
the CC from among the non-agency members. GT members are appointed by the
SCT for a two-year term (renewable once). Non-agency members receive
honoraria for their services.
6.5 Advisory Committees (CA's). CA's are composed of no less than five
members of the scientific, technological and business communities, having
qualifications similar to those of GT members. CA's members are chosen by
the GT's to assess and make recommendations on project proposals to be
financed by the agencies with PADCT resources. The chairman of each CA is
usually the member of the GT with the greatest knowledge of the particular
area for which calls for proposals are made. Once proposals for a
particular call for proposals are received, two ad-hoc reviewers prepare an
assessment for consideration by the entire CA. The CA then evaluates and
ranks the proposals with respect to their technical merit, the capability
of the organization, including the qualifications of the proposed
researchers, and the adequacy of the budget for meeting the project
objectives. After a decision has been made, the CA recommends the funding
of the selected proposals, and informs the proponents of the non-selected
proposals of the reasons supporting its judgments. Its decisions can be
overruled by the GT if it considers that PADCT rules or the objectives of
the edital have not been respected.
6.6 Funding Intermediaries. Each of the three funding intermediaries of
PADCT f -Is and monitors approved sub-projects which fall within its
respective jurisdiction. Generally CAPES handles sub-projects in training
and science education; FINEP is responsible for sub-projects in the areas
of geosciences, biotechnology, chemistry, instrumentation, new materials.
and instrumentation; and CNPq handles sub-projects in the areas of
environment, science information, science planning, maintenance, and
consumables. FINEP and CNPq share responsibility for basic industrial
technology. A contract is signed between the funding intermediary agency
and the executing institutior. for each approved proposal. It specifies
activities to be undertaken, expected results, costs organized according to
standard budget categories, financing plan, disbursement schedule and
procedures, and reporting and auditing requirements. Staff of the
intermediary agency oversee the physical and financial implementation of
each sub-project, through review of periodic reports from the executing
agency, through site visits, and by providing selected services, such as
assistance in procurement from foreign sources, to the executing agency.
For scientific aspects of supervision, the funding intermediary agency
utilizes reviewers designated by the CA. The intermediary agencies
designate one full time technical secretary to be responsible for all
matters related to each of twelve sub-programs.
6.7 Executing Institutions. PADCT subprogram announcements are
disseminated widely within all higher education establishments and research
institutions, as well as in the agricultural, industrial and service



23
sectors. Any institute that meets the eligibility criteria established for
each subprogram is free to prepare and submit sub-project applications to
the intermediary agencies in accordance with the guidelines and timetable
stated in the announcements and application forms. Sub-project
implementation is the responsibility of the sponsoring institution,
although assistance in sucb matters as procurement from foreign sources may
be obtained from the funding agency. Under PADCT I universities and non-
project research institutes manage approximately 9O2 uf PADCT sub-projects,
with the remainder in other Government agencies and, in some cases, in
private firms which have agreed to operate under PADCT rules.
6.8 Studies. The Planning Department of the SCT will directly coordinate
the preparation of the policy report and will sign contracts with
individual consultants and/or firms to prepare background and other
contributing work. The Technology Department of the SCT, togethe.r with the
GT for the basic industrial technology sub-program, will contract with an
outside agency or group to undertake the productivity study.
6.9 Review and Advisory Group (GEA). Consisting of 15 eminent
scientists, of which eight are Brazilians and seven are foreign scientists,
all of whom are appointed initially for three years, the GEA is an advisory
body to the SCT and the Bank on project implementation. The GEA meets a
minimum of once a year and prepares reports and recommendations to the
Government of Brazil and the Bank on PADCT. The G!A examines the
significance and quality of scientific and technological activities in
PADCT sub-programs, evaluates the program and project management activities
of the PADCT funding agencies, coordinating structures, and executing
agencies, and makes recommendations for their improvement. The GEA
specifically reviews and comments on proposals for reallocation of funds
among sub-programs as well as guidelines for minimum and average project
size. Before the mid-term review, the GEA will evaluate overall PADCT II
activities and make recommendations, if necessary, to, inter alia,
reallocate funds to sub-programs, revise sub-program objectives and
strategy, and change PADCT II processes and procedures. The GEA will also
comment on drafts of the policy and productivity reports.
6.10 Annual and Mid-term Reviews. The Government will prepare and send to
the Bank on an annual basis each May 30 a review of sources and uses of
funds, including allocations and expenditures, in science and technology
(including PADCT), based on criteria agreed upon with the Bank and spelled
out in Annex 6. Two years after loan signing, or after 602 of loan funds
are committed, whichever comes first, the Bank and the Government will
jointly review progress in project implementation, as well as the
implications of the productivity study, on the basis of an agenda agreed
upon with the Bank and spelled out in Annex 7. Prior to the review, the
Government will prepare a draft report covering the agreed upon issues dnd
questions. This report will be sent to the members of the GEA prior to one
of its meetings. The GEA will specifically review and comment on the
report and will also add its own observations and recommendations. No less
than one month before the mid-term review, the Government will send to the
Bank its report as well as the report of the GEA. On the basis of this
review, the Government will revise the operational guidelines and the



24
objectives and strategy of the sub-programs, and shall also reallocate
funds among sub-programs, as necessary.
Decision-Making Process
6.11 On the basis of the general criteria noted in para. 5.4, the CC
determined the allocation of funds to sub-programs. On the CC, industry
was directly represented by the designee of the National Association of
Industrial Research and Development (ANPEI), a cooperative association of
industrial firms involved in research, and indirectly by university-based
scientists and engineers, most of whom consult for industry (the new CC
composition now includes a second industry representative selected by the
Science and Technology Secretary). Following general instructions given by
the Science and Technology Secretary, the GTs prepared draft proposals
defining the objectives and the associated allocation of funds within each
sub-program. These proposals were circulated throughout the concerned
science, technology, and business coummunities, and they were revised
numerous times.  In addition, Bank staff members and consultants reviewed,
appraised, and eventually approved the final versions of the proposals.
GT members are selected by the CC on the basis of recommendations by the
various professional societies. They are scientists and engineers, most of
whom are associated with universities, some of whom are involved in small
technology-based firms or in R&D departments of large firms. Compared to
PADCT I, the PADCT II sub-program objectives have greater emphasis on
engineering research and training and on applied research. It should be
noted that, by its nature, most engineering research seeks practical
applications of scientific knowledge and many, if not a majority, of
engineers become involved in development of new products andlor improvement
of production processes. In addition, several sub-program proposals
provide specifically for industry/university cooperation and the Basic
Industrial Technology sub-program continues to be specifically directed at
strengthening industrial infrastructure.
Importation and Financial Administration
6.12 Under PADCT I, CNPq was responsible for processing licenses,
arranging for shipment and delivery, and approving payments for all
imported equipment. This function of CNPq was justified because it had a
unit with this responsibility for many years. Experience has shown that a
centralized bureaucracy like CNPq cannot handle this function adequately.
Over the last year CNPq has delegated most of this function to the 26 major
research universities, which account for most of PADCT funding and which
have adequate importation capacity. Under PADCT II CNPq will continue to
be responsible for this function but will delegate its authority to
additional major universities. CNPq will provide importation services for
smaller institutions and technical assistance %here needed, and will
monitor the overall importation process. With the recent passage of a law
exempting research equipment from licensing requirements as well as recent
Government policy to end all quantitative restrictions of imports,
importation is expected to proceed smoothly under PADCT II.



23
6.13 FINEP acts as thi overall financial agent for the PADCT. FINEP was
selected for this responsibility because it is an autonomous agency with
many of the attributes of a bank (e.g. its main function is to lend money
to industry for innovative high technology programs). In this role FINEP's
accounting department is responsible to the PADCT Executive Secretariat for
managing the flow of loan funds through the FESA and CESA accounts and for
requesting reimbursement from the Bank. FINEP's performance was poor in
the beginning of PADCT I but has steadily improved. Bowever, FINEP has
continued a practice of blocking funds in the FESA account after it emits
payment orders, which often take six to nine months to liquidate. With
large numbers of importation orders, this practice may result in blockage
of the entire FESA account. FINEP recently agreed to change this policy.
During negotiations the Government provided assurances that it will operate
the FESA in a manner so as to ensure timely importation.
6.14 Under PADCT I, a management information system (MIS) for
disbursements control was established and became fully operational.
Purchase and installation of the needed microcomputers and software
packages, their placement at the site of the agency staff responsible for
PADCT administration, and intensive staff training were completed. The
implementation of the second phase of PADCT will require a more agile
database program to process information ox a monthly basis rather than
every three months, to standardize data generated by different agencies, to
include information related to the status and balance of ongoing and
completed projects, including the names of principal investigators, and to
permit rapid calculation of summary data. In addition, to handle the
increased flow of program requests, the SE as well as the accountancy
department of FINEP are adjusting staffing to ensure rapid project
processing.
Procurement
6.15 PADCT II sub-projects will be numerous, widely dispersed in time and
space, and implemented in a decentralized fashion by universities and
research institutions. These institutions have experience with procurement
of highly specialized goods and services needed for scientific and
technological activities. 'rouping of procurement across sub-projects
andlor suppliers will not usually be feasible, and for technical reasons
procurement under normal competitive rules will often not be appropriate.
Civil works will consist of refurbishing of laboratories to use new
equipment and will not be of interest to international contractors.
Equipment and materials for sub-projects are expected to be needed in
single items or small numbers, and are unlikely to be standard across sub-
projects. Aggregation across sub-projects into suitable bidding packages
will not be practical.
l
6.16 In light of the unusual characteristics of equipment procurement
under PADCT II, procurement of goods will be as follows: (i) equipment to
be procured competitively within a sub-project will be packaged to the
extent possible; (ii) contracts for such equipment packages expected to
cost more than US$250,000 will be procured through ICB; (iii) contracts for



26
such packages to cost less than US$250,000 but more than US$25,000 will be
procured on the basis of LCB procedures which are acceptable to the Bank;
and (iv) contracts for foreign equipment packages not available in Brazil
and expected to coot leos than US$25,000 will be awarded, under the Bank's
guidelines for Iaternational Shopping; (v) contracts for equipment packages
available in Brazil --id expected to cost less than US$25,000 will be
awarded under local snapping procedures. In addition, (vi) specialized
equipment not available in Brazil will be purchased through Limited
International Bidding (LIB) (the estimated aggregate amount is US$34.3
million); and (vii), because of needs for standardization or because the
required equipment is proprietary, certain items will be procured through
direct contracting (the estimated aggregate amount is US$6.2 million).
Civil works contracts, which will consist solely of refurbishing and
adapting existing buildings to accomodate new equipment, will be procured
under LCB procedures. Prior review by the Bank of bidding documents and
proposed awards will be made for all ICB and LIB awards above US$250,000
and for the first two contracts for goods to be procured under LCB.
Procurement under the Bank loan is suimmarized in Table 6.1.



27
Table 6.1: Prolect Costs by Procutement Methodsa
(In US$ million)
--------_-------------------------------------------------------__----,----
Procurement HNthod1 ~
Category     ICB   LiS   Is    DC    01    LCB   LS          OL   -Totals
_ ---------         -*---- W   ----------_-_--------------------------------
Civil WorksIC                                  3.1                    3.1
(0.8)                 (0.8)
Goods        3.1   34.3   18.7    6.2         47.0  25.1            134.4
(3.1) (34.3) (18.7)  (6.2)       (11.3)  (6.0)          (79.6)
Training                               26.0                 13.4    39.4
(26.0)               (3.4)   (29.4)
Consultants/d                          15.0                 10.5    25.5
(15.0)               (2.6)   (17.6)
Research Expenses                                           88.3    88.3
(21.6)   (21.6)
Administration                          1.0                  8.3      9.3
(1.0)               (0.0)    (1.0)
-Totals     3.1   34.3   18.7   6.2  42.0  50.1   23.1  120.5   300.0
(3.1) (34.3) (18.7)  (6.2) (42.0) (12.1)  (6.0) (27.6)  (150.0)
------------------------------------------------------------_-__-----------
1a   Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank.
lb  ICB - International Competitive Bidding; LIB - Limited
International Bidding; IS - International Shopping; DC - Direct
Contracting; 01 - Other International (overseas training and
consultants); LCB - Local Competitive Bidding; LS - Local
Shopping; OL - Other Local (training, consultants, research
ezpenses, information services, and administration)
/c  Refurbishing and adaptation of existing facilities to
accomodate laboratory equipment.
Id  Includes US$2.2 mlllion for studies.



28
Consultants
6.17 Most PADCT II consultants will be visiting researchers, professors,
or short-term technical advisers who will be selected by universities or
research institutes in accordance with these institututions' normal
procedures. The selection procedures of the main research institutions,
expected to receive over 02 of PADCT awards, have been reviewed and are
acceptable to the Bank. Semiannual reports of the sub-project executing
agencies to the funding intermediaries will include: (i) for newly
appointed individual consultants, their curriculum vitae, work program,
terms of reference, and method and criteria of selection; and (ii) for
individual consultants completing assignments, an evaluation of work
accomplished. When technical groups decide to seek advice on specific
issues, they are expected mainly to select individual consultants. In a
few cases, firms will be selected. All such consultants will be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on
the basis of Bank guidelines. For the productivity study, in order to
provide adequate operational flexibility in hiring of individual
consultants, it is expected that a non-profit research institution will be
given the reponsibility for doing the study under the direction of a study
director appointed by the Commission.
Disbursements
6.18 For withdrawal of the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan, the
following percentages of expenditures will be disburseds (i) 1002 of
foreign expenditures for civil works, equipment, consultant services,
training, studies and administration; (ii) 25Z of local expenditures for
civil works, equipment, consultant services, training, information
services, research expenses, and the policy study. The Government will
finance 75Z of local project costs, 1008 of local administrative costs, and
10OZ of local costs of the productivity study. Amounts to be financed by
the loan by categories are as follows: biotechnology, US$22.9 million;
chemistry, US$28.9 million; geosciences, US$18.4 million; instrumentation,
US$8.3 million; science education, US$9.2 million; science planning, US$2.3
million; science maintenance, US$3.8 million; science consumables, US$3.5
million; science information, US$1.9 million; basic industrial technology,
US$18.2 million; new materials, US$24.9 million; environmental science,
US$6.8 million; administration, US$0.5 million; and studies, US$0.4
million.
6.19 Disbursements of less than US$250,000 equivalent for purchase of
local equipment and for local training, direct foreign expenditures for
fellowships and related expenses, and contracts for goods and services,
will be made against statements of expenditure certified by the
intermediary funding agency. Documentation will be retained by the
relevant funding intermediary and made available for review by the Bank
during the course of supervision missions. All other disbursements will be
made against fully documented withdrawal applications. All requests for
disbursements from the Bank loan will be channeled through FINEP acting in
its capacity as financial agent for the PADCT. To facilitate Bank



29
disbursements, the use of the two existing Special Accounts (CESA and FESA)
will be continued. CESA, to be used to meet local expenses reimbursed by
the Bank, will be administered and controlled by the Central Bank. Funds
totalling US$6 million will be deposited by the World Bank in an account of
the Central Bank with the Bank of Brazil, New York, as is the case of all
Special Accounts established under existing loans to Brazil. Local
currency payments from this Central Bank Special Account will be made in
accordance vith established)Special Account procedures. FESA, to be used
to meet direct foreign exchange expenditures, will be operated by FINEP.
The Central Bank will authorize FINEP, acting in its capacity as PADCT
financial agent and within authority granted to it under Decree 2115 of
April 25, 1984, to operate this separate account for FADCT at an overseas
Brazilian Bank, into which the World Bank will make an initial deposit of
US$12 million. Upon receipt of consolidated requests from the funding
agencies, FINEP will directly order payment from its PADCT account at the
Bank of its choice. Sinultaneously FINEP will forward the completed
disbursement application to the World Bank which, upon confirmation that
the payments have been effected, will directly replenish the PINE? account.
Individual payments for foreign expend3.ures in excess of US$150,000 may be
made in accordance with normal disbursement procedures under which
withdrawal applications are forwarded directly to the World Bank. For
reimbursement of foreign expenditures made through the FESA, conversion
from dollars into third currencies will made at the exchange rate in effect
on the date payments were made from the FESA at its designated Bank.
6.20 The project will be implemented over a period of five years. The
expected date of completion is June 30, 1995, and the closing date is
December 31, 1995. It is expected that 902 of funds will be committed over
the first two years of the project, with the remainder in the third year.
All equipment will be purchased during the first four years of the project,
and only some long term training as well as operating costs for some
research projects will be incurred during the fifth year. This
implementation schedule is consistent with recent performance under
PADCT I. Annex Table 6 provides a summary of the timing of expected
commitments, expenditures, and disbursements. The proposed US$150 million
loan, which would cover 501 of project costs, would be disbursed as
described in Annex Table 4.
Monitorln. Evaluation, and Dissemination
6.21 Since monitoring and evaluation were found to be inadequate in PADCT
I, the revised PADCT Basic Document places greater emphasis on this aspect
of PADCT Il. All sub-programs will have funds set aside for monitoring and
evaluation. In addition, the science policy sub-program will include about
US$l million for evaluation of sub-programs, including quality and
relevance of research results and their comercial application, and of
PADCT as a whole. As part of their normal processes, the intermediary
funding agencies will monitor implementation of specific contracts, and a
final report shall be written by each executing agency at the end of each
contract. The GEA will also continue its overall monitoring and evaluation
function. The PADCT Executive Secretariat regularly provides general
infonmation on the PADCT program as a whole to the scientific,



30
technological, and business communities. It also regularly publi'-es a
bulletin and distributes it to the same communities. In accordance with
PADCT operational guidelines, each GT widely distributes information
regarding its sub-program and specific calls for proposals. The GT also
identifies potential clienteles and directs its announcements to them
through advertisements and informational meetings. As agreed in the course
of project preparation, each GT has set aside funds for dissemination of
research results through 4 variety of seminars, meetings, newsletters, and
publications. As an example, the instrumentation sub-program allocates
funds for bi-yearly studies on the status of instrumentation, and for
yearly seminars and exhibits linking researchers with industry. Funds are
also provided for development of product catalogues and of training
opportunities catalogues. In addition, the information component of the
basic industrial technology sub-program specifically aims to develop a
network of centers providing information to specific industry groups on
latest developments in the sector.
Accounts and AuditinR
6.22 The funding intermediaries will maintain a separate account for each
sub-project'appraised and implemented under their respective auspices.
These accounts will contain detailed information about approved budgets,
actual expenditures, as well as local and foreign expenditures. The
funding intermediaries will provide to the SE quarterly consolidated
accounts statements for each sub-project in each subprogram. The project
as a whole, the intermediary funding agencies, and the Special Accounts
will be subject to an annual audit by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank.  Each of the intermediary agencies has regularly established
procedures for auditing the financial performance of the sub-projects.
Detailed manuals on financial reporting are supplied to executing
institutions upon signature of the contract. Disbursements are subject to
review of periodic reports. Physical verification is assured by visits by
the staff of the intermediary agency. Sub-project contracts provide that
the regular overall internal audits of executing agencies conducted by
government organs or private firms will be made available on request to the
intermediary agency. These procedures offer reasonable assurance that
verification of financial and programmatic aspects of subproject execution
will be adequately conducted by the intermediary agencies. Copies of the
reports of the auditors will be 3ent to the Bank within six months of the
end of each fiscal year. The auditor's report will include an opinion (and
comments, as necessary) on the methods employed in compiling the statements
of expenditures; their accuracy: the relevance of supporting documents;
their eligibility tor financing in terms of the project's legal agreement;
the standards of record-keeping and internal controls related to the
foregoing. Financial accounting and audits for PADCT I are satisfactory.
Bank Supervision
6.23 As the essence of a sector loan is the delegation of
responsibilities for sub-project management to the intermediary agencies of
the borrower, Bank supervision will not focus on individual research
projects. Rather, supervision will concentrate on the application of the



31
operational guidelines for PADCT, on continuity in the content and
operational arrangements of the various subprograms, on all aspects of
performance of the funding intermediaries, and on assessing emerging needs
for adjustments in sub-programs. Supervision will depend significantly on
the annual reports of the GEA, especially in identifying needed adjustments
in sub-program objectives. Bank supervision missions vill also closely
follow the preparation of the policy report and productivity study the
Commission, since these tvo studies vill have broad sectoral implications.
Supervision missions are generally mounted two times per year, and, given
the technical nature of the PADOT activities, include expert consultants as
well as Bank staff. Because of the Bank's interest in the policy framework
related to the project, including its institutional and sectoz-l
development objectives and the environment for innovation in the productive
sector, the supervision coefficient is expected to be higher than average.
VII.PROJECT BENREFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
7.1 The project is expected to increase human resource capacity in key
science areas, improve the efficiency of resource allocation in the sector,
and encourage policy change in areas affecting technological innovation.
Specifically, the project will support about 900 research programs and
6,600 overseas and local graduate scholarships. Beneficiaries will include
about 2,400 scientists, 6,600 graduate science education students, and many
other users of science and technology services. Eventually research
developed under the project is expected to be turned into productive
undertakings in areas as diverse as biotechnology, mineral technology,
materials engineering, and in the environment.  While it is difficult to
foresee the exact nature of these returns, investments in developed
countries of this sort, i.e.. in developing high level human resource
capacity and in extending fundamental scientific understanding, have been
shown to yield high economic returns.
Risks
7.2 Institutional change, including devolving decision-making to the
scientific community and decentralizing the system of importation, as well
as strengthening the Government's own planning and analytical capacity, is
a delicate and complex process. The risk that these changes will not be
solidified will be minimized by the strong support for the project by the
scientific community as a whole and the considerable influence of this
group on the Government. Furthermore, the new team in the Secretariat of
Science and Technology is of the highest scientific and professional
quality. A long term risk to achievement of the goal of encouraging
technological innovation in the private sector would be continued macro-
economic instability as well as trade and other restrictions on
competition. While the new Government is making a serious effort in this
area, it is still too early to make a judgment on its relative success.
The risk would be met in part through mandating studies designed to clarify



32
issues in areas such as industrial productivity as veil as through the
Bank's overall dialogue with the Government on these issues.
VIII. AGREZMSNTS AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1  Conditions of effectiveness will bet
(a) the Government will allocate adequate counterpart funds for the
first calendar year of project implementation (para. 5.6);
(b) the Government will sign agreements with FnIsP and CNPq for
these agencies to implement their respective parts of the
project (para. 6.1);
(c) the Government vill prepare terms of reference and a work
program acceptable to the Bank for undertaking the policy report
(para. 4.5); and
(d) the Government will prepare terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank for undertaking the report on industrial productivity and will
select Commission members whose experience and qualifications shall
be acceptable to the Bank (para 4.6).
8.2  Conditions and assurances includes
(a) Any changes in PADCT operational guidelines, sub-program
documents, either ad-hoc or official, as well as re-allocations
among sub-program8, will have to be acceptable to the Bank. The
key features of the operational guidelines ares (i) decisions on
award of sub-projects will be in the hands of technical
committees consisting mainly of members of the sciencp and
business communities; (ii) research awards will be mate on a
competitive basis; (iii) awards will be made taking in due
consideration the need to strengthen existing centerl of
excellence, and to provide multi-year support, in ac¢ordance
with guidelines for minimum and average size of grants stated In
the operational guidelines; (iv) inflation correctiois will be
made automatically and in a timely manner to ensure ihat the
real value of awards is retained; (v) an international advisory
group (GEA) will meet regularly to provide an independent
analysis of project implementation and effectiveness; and (vi)
the Government will ensure that importation is carried out in a
timely manner, including ensuring that FESA will be efficiently
operated and (vii) a technical committee composed of experts
whose qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the
Bank, shall review all proposals made for metrology and such
proposals shall include information on availability of qualified
staff and steps to be taken to improve the quality of services
provided (paras. 6.1 and 6.13).
l



33
(b) Terms of reference and the detailed work program of the
productivity and policy studies and the experience and
qualifications of coumission members will be acceptable to the
Bank. The policy study will be completed six months after loan
signing (estimated to be by June 30, 1991) and the productivity
study will b* completed by October 30, 1992.  The Bank will have
an opportunity tb-comment on the draft of the policy study,and
on interim and final drafbs for the productivity study and it
*iUk_bebirformed promptly of all actions that the Government
will take based on the studies' recommendations (paras. 4.5 and
4.6).
(c) The qualifications and experience of the project director
will be acceptable to the Bank (para. 6.2).
(d) The Government will prepare and send to the Bank on an
annual basis each May 30 a review of sources and uses of funds,
including allocations and expenditures, in science and
technology, based on criteria agreed upon with the Bank (para.
6.10).
Ce) Two years after loan signing, or after 60Z of loan funds are
committed, whichever comes first, the Bank and the Government
will jointly review progress in project implementation on the
basis of an agenda agreed upon with the Bank (see Annex 7).
Prior to the review the Government will prepare a draft report
covering the agreed upon issues and questions. This report will
be sent the members of the GEA prior to one of its meetings.
The GEA will specifically review and comment on the report and
will also add its own observations and recommendations. No less
than one month before the mid-term review the Government will
send to the Bank its report as well as the report of the GEA.
On the basis of this review the Government will revise the
operational guidelines and the objectives and strategy of the
sub-programg, and will also reallocate funds among sub-programs,
as necessary ;para. 6.10).
8.3 A condition of disbursement for funding of the productivity study
will be the preparation of a detailed work program, satisfactory to the
Bank, for this study (para. 4.6).
8.4 The proposed Bank loan will be made at the standard variable interest
rate with repayment in 15 years, including 5 years grace.
(a)



34
ANNEX 1
Brazil's Effort in Research and Develooment
Total R&D Expenditure (public and private)
1. Reliable time series for R&D expenditures in Brazil are in many cases only
available for the 1980s, and the existing information is usually presented in
a very aggregate format. Despite these problems, the data support the
following conclusions: (i) R&D expenditures increased significantly during
the 1970s and have remained relatively stable as a proportion of GNP during
the 19809, despite the economic and financial problems that afflicted the
country in that period; (ii) R&D expenditures are mainly financed by the
public sector; and (iii) there is a large variance in the R&D efforts of firms
operating in the productive sector.
2. Table 1 provides information on R&D expenditure as a proportion of GNP for
selected countries over the 1970-85 period. The Brazilian data confirm the
above mentioned patterns after a significant increase during the 19709, R&D
expenditure remained flat as a proportion of GNP.
3. Traditionally public funds have financed the bulk of S&T investment in
Brazil. Private investments in this field have been modest and limited to
certain tecbnological areas where the chances of direct financial returns are
higher and immediate. The often cited reason for the heavy participation of
the government in S&T is the nature of the S&T investment itself--high capital
investment with uncertain and indirect results. Using available data, it has
been estimated that the level of total (public and private) expenditures in
Brazil is somewhere between 0.6 percent of GDP (if it is assumed that the
public sector finances around 901 of the total S&T expenditures) and 0.7
percent of GDP (if it is assumed that the public sector finances around 70
percent of the total S&T expenditures). Public allocations for S&T as a
proportion of GDP have fluctuated from 0.192 in 1980 to 0.46Z in 1988.
4. Brazil's spending on R&D is lower than in similar industrializing
countries and lags far behind various developed market economies. The
percentage of national income invested in R&D in Taiwan and India is 0.9
percent and it ranges between 1S and 32 in most OECD countries. The gap in
absolute terms is striking. In 1987, the United States invested US$121
billion and Japan US$46 billion in technological development while Brazil
invested just US$1.6 billion. This type of comparison, however, does not
provide a sound economic benchmark for evaluating the adequacy of S&T
investments in a given country. S&T investment decisions have to be judged
against alternative investment options in terms of their expected social rates
of return.



3S
Table It R&D  ZPUDITURES IN SELECtD COUNT
AS Z OF GM?
Country       1970      1975        1978         1960        1962        1985
Brazil        0.24      0.70(a)     0.60         0.55         0.70       0.60
(a)
South Korea   0.39      0.42        0.63         0.58        0.90        1.59
Taiwa         ----      ----        0.66         0.72        0.91        1.06
Japan         2.22      2.40        2.36         2.63        3.01        3.49
West Germany  2.10      2.20        ----         2.40         ----       2.70
United States 2.82      2.45        2.36         2.57         2.83       3.06
Mexico        0.20                  --_-         ----         0.50       0.60
(b)
Notes8   ---- data not available
(a) figures refer to R&D as I of GDP
(b) figure refers to 1984.
Sources: DahlmAn (1988); Prischtak (1988)s Psacharopoulos and Saliba (1989);
World Bank.(1984)s CII (1988).
Public S&T Eswenditure
5. The picture which ewrgee from an analysis of Brazilian expenditures in
the broader S&T category is sSailar to the one presented In Table 1. Table 2
provides S&T indicators organited by CNPq. Despite the fears of many analysts
that budgetary allocations for S&T are a natural target for cuts during
periods of fiscal austerity, the figures of Table 2 do not seem to validate
these concerns. Over the last three years Initial allocations for S&T in the
federal budget have fallen significantly in real texas, but final allocations
and actual expenditures have remained much more stable-actual expenditures
for S&T have represented on average 3.82 of the total federal budget). This
trend suggests not only the political power of the 8&T comunity, but also a
favorable attitude of the Iraslism Congress toward funding 8&T activities.



36
Table 2s EXPENDITURE FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY IN BRAZIL 198111988
(US$ million of 1987)
1981  1982  1983 1984  1965  1986   1987 1988
Federal Governments
(A) Initial Allocation         558    793   812  509   686  1.005   432   396
(B) Actual Expenditure U)      984  1,200   963  962 1,260  1,455 1,485 1,383
(C) Variance                    76     51    18   88    86      44   243   248
(B-A/A*100)
State Governments:
(D) Initial Allocation (ii)    206    295   261   194   199   598   152    71
(E) Actual Expenditure (li)   455   421   301   337   545 . 457   274   219
(F) Variance                    63     42    15    73    71      9    79   206
CE-DID*100)
Go"ernment Eszonditure in ST
(G) (5)413)                  1,419  1,622 1,265 1,300 1,628 1,892 1,759 1,602
Exoenditure by the Productive
and Financial Sectores
(N) - 0,25 * (G) (iv)          354    405   316   233   405   473   439   400
National Emuenditure in SI?:
(I) - MG)+(H)                1,773  1,027 1581 1,553 2,033 2,365 2,198 2,002
GDP:
(J) (v)          258,575 261,455 254,065 268,492 290,997 314,442 323,572
322,602
(1981)  (1982)  (1985)  (1984)  (1985)  (1986)  (1987)
(1988)
National Esnenditure in S&TIMDPs
(L) - (I)l(J) Z                 0.67  0.78  0.62  0.58  0.70  0.75  0.68  0.62
Notes (a) exchange rate US$1.00 * Ca$59,539, which was the average sale price
of the dollar in 1987, accordfin to the Central Bank of Brasil. (b) In
calculating (a). it is aswuind that the productive sector share represents 252
of the government expenditue in S&T.
Sources Primo Braga, C. and Sbepherd, C., 1989.



37
7.  S&T expenditures at the state level have been reduced in real ters since
1986 (see Table 2). Recently, however, efforts have been made to reverse this
trend. As mandated by different state constitutions, a specific percentage of
resources will be allocated for S&T each year (see Table 3). In some states,
such as Sao Paulo and Minas Gerais, the absolute value of these resources may
range from US$250 to US$300 million per year. Given financial problems in the
states, there is already some evidence that these allocations will be cut
back.
Table 3: RESOURCES ALLOCATED FOR S&T AT THE STATE LEVEL (a)
State                                            Amount
Maranhao, Mato Grosso du Sul
and Sergipe                                      0.52 of general tax revenues
Tocantins                                        0.5O   of total state budget
Acre and Pernambuco                              1.OZ of total state budget
Para and Sao Paulo                               1.02 of general tax revenues
Bahia and Rio Grande do Sul                      1.52 of general tax revenues
Rondonia, Alagoas and
Paraiba                                          2.0? of total state budget
Santa Catarina                                   2.0? of general operating
Ceara, Parana and
Rio de Janeiro                                   2.0? of general tax revenues
Espirito Santo                                   2.5  of total state budget
Minas Gerais                                     3.0? of total state budget
Amazonas and Goias                               3.0? of general tax revenues
Notes (a) Percentage allocated by the new State Constitutions.
Source: Forum Nacional de Secretarios Estaduais de Ciencia e Tecnologia and
Secretaria Especial de Ciencia e Tecnologia, 1989.



38
8. As previously noted, S&T activities in Brazil depend heavily on public
funds. Available estimates consistently place the public sector as
responsible for 70 to 90 percent of all S&T expenditure. In the 1981-88
period, government expenditures on S&T averaged US$1.6 billion per year. The
federal government was the source of 782 of these funds. The participation of
state governments in public sector S&T expenditures has consistently decreased
over this period, falling from 31? in 1981 to 142 in 1988. As the result, the
federal government increased lits role as the main source of S&T financing over
the 19809. In general, these funds essentially finance S&T activities in
public entities, mainly universities, research institutes and state
enterprises. In the industrialized world the share of government-financed R&D
carried out within the government sector is much smaller: 482 in the United
States, 47? in France, 39Z in the United Kingdom, 322 in Cermany, and 212 in
Japan.
9. The heavy government involvement in S&T financing is not a peculiarity of
Brazil. In other middle income countries such as Argentina, Mexico and India
the government has traditionally financed 95?, 90? and 862, respectively, of
total national R&D expenditures. What is worth noticing is that while Brazil,.
as well as the above mentioned countries, have remained extremely dependent on
public funding'for S&T expenditures, other countries have been able to evolve
toward a growing share of privately financed R&D as their industries matured.
The most striking example in this category is South Korea. In 1970, the
public sector financed 71? of all R&D expenditures; ten years later this share
had fallen to 522, and by 1985 publicly financed R&D represented no more than
19? of the total R&D expenditures in the country.
Productive Sector S&T Exnenditure
10. There are no reliable statistics on S&T expenditures performed by the
productive sector (private and state-owned enterprises combined). The most
detailed analysis available refers to 1983, which puts the productive sector
share as equivalent to 20? of the total S&T expenditures (or 25? of the
government S&T expenditures). Productive sector expenditures in S&T, in turn,
were performed mainly by state-owned enterprises. The composition of these
expenditures in 1983 was the followings state-owned enterprises (54Z);
financial enterprises (13?); and private enterprises (33?). The so-called
financial enterprises were basically state-controlled banks such as Bank of
Brazil, Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimiento (BNDES), Banco Nacional de
Habitacao (BNH), Banco do Nordeste do Brasil, and the Banco do Desenvolvimento
do Estado de Sao Paulo.
11. Other estimates, even when providing a less somber picture of the S&T
efforts carried on by the productive sector, tend to confirm the low aggregate
involvement of Brazilian firms (particularly private companies) with S&T. The
Associacao Nacional de Pesquisa das Empresas Industriais (ANPEI), for
instance, points out that over the 1975-79 period only 0.2? of Brazilian firms
were engaged in R&D activities. Another estimate that adopted the sum of R&D
expenditures and payments for royalties and technical assistance as a proxy
for the technological effort of the productive sector, concluded that in 1982
Brazilian firms were spending only 0.15? of their net sales on technology.



12. Additional evidence can also be obtained from technological surveys. An
Index of "technological adequacy" developed by the Getullo Vargas Foundation,
when applied in 1987 to radilatn findustry, rew aled that 332 of industrial
sectors presented an Index Ifnerior to 50 In a scale in which 100 would
reflect a technological profile similar to the one prevailing In developed
countries. Only two segments (metallurgy, perfuse and cometies), reached
indices higher than 80 asd the averag Index for the whole Industry was
estimated as 61.
13. Another characterLstic of the Jrasilan productive sector is the high
variance among the flim levell's D efforts. There is a small number of
enterprises--approximately 50- which invest heavily in &D. Some of these
innovation-prone companies consistently apply ore than 2? of their net sales
to R&D. CNPq has also identified a core of state-owned enterprises (SOREs
controlled by Petrobras, Telebras, CVRD, Zletrobrss, Siderbras, and Nuclebras)
as the main actors in the S&T sector. These flrms, whlch generated 55Z of the
operational revenues of the SSS3 (secretariat for the Control of Federal
Public Enterprises), were resposlble for 822 of the SIT expenditures made by
SOEs in 1982.
Defense and non,,-.defense SIT exuenditures
14. As the data in Table 4 suggst, Brarll's public expenditures in 1988 are
about three times larger than those of 1980. Defenee UST has increased as a
proportion of public expenditure in S&T, from 12 su 1980 to 13 In 1988.
'ihile military allocations increased more than 27 fold between 1980 and 1988,
allocations to universities (excluding fellowbhip funds) have increased sir
times. These increases might account for Brazil's Increasing competitiveness
in the international maket for mLlitary hadware.



40
Table 4t PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY IN BRAZIL BY
RECIPIE   SETO0, 1980-1988 (a)
MILITARY (b)             UIVESSITIES (c)        OTIER        TOTAL
(in US$1,000)           (in US$1,000)        (it US$1,000)
Amount     I            Amount     S         Amount  2
Year
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--_
1980        5,921      1.1          33,525    6.4     484,909  92.5   524,362
1981       14,534      1.5          39,999    4.1     911,t01  94.4   966,139
1982       24,496      2.1         103,450    8.7   1,057,024  89.2 1,184,980
1983       21,879      2.3          90,411    9.6     825,218  88.0   938,219
1984       37,699      4.2          69,325    7.6     800,422  88.2   907,458
1985       81,474      6.6         109,908    8.8   1,050,889  84.6 1,242,296
1986      199,238     13.7         133,645    9.2   1,122,356  77.1 1,455,262
1987      161,917     10.9         111,213    7.5   1,212,235  81.6 1,485,383
1988(d)   192,109     13.1          80,366    5.5   1,196,120  81.4 1,468,613
1989(e)   164,550      8.6         198,956   10.4   1,554.493  81.0 1,918,018
Notess        I
(a) Figures for 1980-88 are in constart 1987 dollars; exchange rate used was
US$1.00-C:$39.523, which was the average sale price of the dollar in Brazil in
1987. Figure for 1989 was obtained °sing US$1.00 - CzS$1.00, which was the
official exehange rate In January c 1989.
(b) Federal funds allocated to the three military ministries (Navy, Army, and
Air Force), the Conselho de Seguranca Nacional (CSM) (from 1981 onwards), and
the Estado Major das Forcas Armada. (DIVA) (from 1986 onwards).
(c) Figures do not include fellowships funds from CAPES, CNPq, and research
institutes.
(d) For the 1988 figures, the final budget allocation was used as an estimate
for actual expenditures.
(e) Initial allocation.
Sources CNPq, 1989.
Distribution of Public SS! Fd  gMo   Budietar, Units
15. Table 5 shows the participation of the government budgetary units in S&T
allocations. Although the bulk of all public S&T funds are allocated to
typical S&T-engaged mdistries, such as Agriculture and Science and
Technology, all governent budgetary unlts participate in the S&T budget
(note, for example, the Inclusion of the Ministry of Justice, a clear atypical
S&T unit). The military miniastrts (Air Force, Army and Navy), which account
for about one third of the total S&T defense budget, receive about 4 percent
of the total public expenditures in S&T in Brazil in 1980 (against 1 percent
in 1981). The Minlstry of Education, a long-standing recipient of the S&T
budget, also has increased its participation from about 8 percent in 1980 to
15 in 1988, a large portion of which are sub-allocated to the federal
institutions of higher education.



41
Table Ss PUBLIC BUDGET FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY IN BRAZIL,
FINAL ALLOCATIONS BY GOVERNMENT UNITS, 1980-88
(US$)
-------------------------_-------------------------------------__------------_
Government Unit       1980    1983    1985    1986       1987    1988
----------------------------------__--------------------------------__--------_
--Min. de Ciencia
e Tecnologia        -------  -------     290  333,397  483,603  554,327
--Min. de Agricultura 137,185  203,941 207,063  241,500  279,563  314,525
--Presidencia da Rep. 96,828  109,074  138,019 127,174  195,447  291,342
--Min. da Educacao    43,263  102,074  133,523  188,410  221,753  253,156
--Min. das Mines e
Energia              45,648  163,958   70,420  177,198  233,775   79,609
--Min. da Saude       16,223   11,385  11,261   17,030   28,837  45,322
--Min. da Industria
e do Comercio        37,259  55,056   53,704   49,811   39,388   39,899
--Min. da Aeronautica  ------   1,402  27,987   45,403   12,559   31,931
--Min. da Justicia       133      123      225  38,408   13,286   25,371
:--in. da Narinha      3,376   2,934  22,291   10,336   39,550   25,366
- -Encargos Gerais da
Uniao               117?430 127,949  560,500  206,499   16,803   21,595
--Min. da Habit.,
Urbanismo e Meio Amb.-_----  ---_- -------   3,328         927    9,059
--Min. do Transportes  16,537   11,083   32,394   22,111    7,455   8,253
--Mis. do Exercito     2.068    7,738   6,697   8,907    3,742   4,893
--Min. da Cultura     ------  ------- -------    2,212    3,555    3,150
--Min. da Fazenda     ------  ----_- ----_-   --_   ------            896
--Min. do Trabalho         9         3       1       71       26      792
--Min. da Providencia e
Assistencia Social      621         2      3        5    1,607      360
--Min. do Interior       588       393  2,226        21   2,910       301
--Min. das Relacoes
Exteriores             192       201    311       261      245      197
--Transferencia a
Estados, D.F. e
Municipios           -------    -_---  -----   ------   ----    ____
--Fundo Nacional de
Desenvolvimento      12,480    -------  -----    ------    ----    ----
TOTAL               529,840    797,316 1,266,917 1,472,082 1,585,031
1,710,344
Source-------------------------------------------------_-1989.---------------
Sourcet CNPq, 1989.



42
Vlsor FunctLons of ExrcutAno Aaenciee
16. Table 6 shows the 18 major public agencies for science and technology.
They receive over 9St of the total federal allocations for S&T. Same of these
directly meecute research programs while others operate as Intermediary
financing agencies distributing funds to other agencies and Institutes.
Executing functions Including training researchers, conducting research,
diffusion end systematization of information, development of infrastructure,
and research coordination.



43
Table 6t JEY S&T AGECIES ACCORDING TO BUDGETARY ALLOCATIONS (a)
--------------------------_----------------------------------__--------------_
Agency                 Function         Final 1988 Budgetary Allocation
Amount (b)       Percent
--------------------_--------------------------------------------__----------_
-CNPq-The Nat'l Council
for S&T Dev.              T,R           291,639          17.01
-EMORAPA-Braz. Agricult.
Research Corp.            T,R           200,542           11.69
-Secretariat of Sec. of
S&T(c)                    N,R           183,903          10.72
-CAPES-Coord. Ag. for
Postgrad. Training        T,I           139,108           8.11
-CNEN-Natot Council for
Nuclear Energy            N,R,T         129,128            7.53
-EMBRATER-Braz. Rural
Extension Corp.           I              98,916            5.77
-IPES-Federal Univ. and
other Teach. Inst.        T,R            93,842           5.47
-CSN-National Security
Council                   N              89,431           5.22
-DEFA-Joint Chiefs of
Staff                     R              72,760           4.24
-Secretariat of Min. of
Mines and Energy(d)       N              65,617            3,83
-INPE-Institute of
Space Research            T,R            48,421           2,82
-FIOCRUZ-Foundation Inst.
Oswaldo Cruz              T.R            33,137            1,93
-Min. of Aeronautics      R              31,931           1,86
-INMETRO-Nat'l Inst. of
Netrol., Stand.           I,N            27,178            1,58
-Secretariat of Min. of
Justice                   ---            25,199            1,47
-CEDATE-Center for Tech.
Supp. of Educ.(e)         ---            21,083           1,23
-CTI-Center for Informatics
Technology                R              19,918           1,16
-INPA-Nat'l Inst. for Res.
of Amazon Reg.            R              18,981           1.11
-Subtotal                             1,590,644          92.75
Total SiT Budget                      1,714,851         100.00
------------------------------------------------------------__---------------_
Notess (a) T stands for Training, R for research, D for dissemination of
information, I for institutional development and N for normative coordination;
(b) Amounts in 1987 dollars; (c) Includes the FNDCT and the PADCT research
funds;
(d) 80S is allocated for equity investment in NUCLEBRAS; (e) 902 for classroom
scientific equipment and instruments.
Source: World Bank (1989).



44
Regeiviut Sectors
17. galf (53S) of Brazil's total R&D in 1982 was performed within the general
services sector, 30S by industry, and 17? by higher education Institutions
(see Table 7). The bulk of Brazilian funds for SST flows from public offices
(ministries and their respective executing agencies) to other public entities
(universities, research institutes, state enterprises, and other public
agencies). Preliminary data from the PADCT show that 801 of the PADCT funds
vent to universities, 182 went to research institutes, and the remaining 21 to
nonpublic entities (not necessarily industry). The public sector (which, in
this case, is the federal government) fin-aces directly the public sector (and
not the private sector)   The private sector finances itself.
able 7a R&D EXPENDITURE IN BRAZIL BY RECIPIEN S ECTOR (in 2)
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-----
Higher
Year        Government        Education         Industry           Total
1977           11                31                58               100
1979           32                16                52               100
1981           32                16                52               100
1982           53                17                30               100
--_-------------------------------------------------------------------__-----_
Sources Figures for 1977 are estimations based on UNESCO Statistical Yearbook
1988. Figures for 1979 are from The World Bank, Brazils Issues in Science and
Technology Development, Report N.4819 (a)-BR, mtmeo, January 1984. Figures
for 1981 are from The World Bank, Brazilt Project for Science and Technology,
Staff Appralsal Report No. 5153-BR, mimea, January 1985. Figures for 1982 are
from UNESCO Statistical Yearbook 1988.
nnout-outout Indicators
18. Brazil is by far the largest and most important actor in S&T in Latin
America. It has the largest pool of scientific and technical buman resources
in the region, and the largest number of organizations involved in S&T
activities. There are also numerous professional associations and societies
that are active in the different fields of science and technology.
19. Brazil's 32,500 full-time equivalent scientists and engineers represent
about 256 per mllion inhabitants, almost twice that of Chlle and Venezuela
(with 132 and 133 per million respectively), and somewhat higher than Mexico
(with 216 per millilon), but considerably less proportionally than Argentina
(with 360 per mllion). In 1985, some 50,000 students were enrolled at the
master's and doctoral level at the Brazilian institutions of higher education
and about 6,000 degrees were awarded (see Table 8). About 46 percent of the
total enrollment was in the humanities, with 14 percent in engineering, 14
percent in basic sciences, 9 percent In biology, 11 percent in health, and 7
percent in agriculture.



45
Tablo as SELECTED S&T INDICATORS IN BRAZIL, 1973-86
Number of Individuals         Number of Programs
Higher                                                     Graduate
Education                    Graduate Graduate   Graduate Degree.
Year   Institutions  Researchers   Students  Fellowships Programs Programs
Awarded
…_____________________________________________________________________________
1973    780
1974    848              7,725        14,914                         2,130
1975    877              8,232        22,245    3,789        681    2,309
1976    885                           26,255    5,801                2,387
1977    863             17,187        31,532    7,717                3,223
1978    861             24,015        33,631    8,621                4,261
1979    862                           36,608    9,689        974    5,057
1980    872                           38,609   13,685        982    4,634
1981    867             12,058        40,184   13,688      1,021    4,A63
1982                    32.508        42,838                         4,520
1983                                  45,421                         5,696
1984                                  47,759                         6,025
1985                                  50,054    9,140                6,349
1986                                            10,044
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------_
Source:
SRI International, New Directions for U.S.-Latin America Cooperation In
Science and Technology, Technical Note STPP-TN3164-4, 1988.
The World Bank, Brazil: Science and Technology Sector Memorandum, mimeo, June
1988.
CNPq, PADCT Documento Basico, 1984.
Patent Rights in Brazil
22. Table 9 indicates the number of patent applications and number of patent
grants in Brazil. The number of applications have been stable during last 15
years, except for 1987s the number of grants increased in 1981-82 but has
recently gone back to historical levels.



46
Table 9a PATENT APPLICATIONS AND PATENTS GRANTED IN BRAZIL, 1973-1987
------------------------------------------------- -   a          WV----------------------
Year                   Patent Grants                         Patent Applications
…----------------       -…---_ -----------------------       _----------    __-------    __-----
1973                          264                                  10,288
1974                        1,154                                  10,936
1975                          985                                  11,365
1976                        3,200                                  11.444
1977                        2,420                                  11,342
1978                        2,469                                  11,678
1979                        2,517                                  11,496
1980                        8.204                                  11,312
1981                       11,538                                  11,351
1982                       11,561                                  10,453
1983                        7,338                                  11,144
1984                        5,749                                  10,864
1985                        4,926                                  10,426
19(6                        3.804                                  10,471
1987                        3,130                                  14,157
----------------------------_-----------------------e-----------__-----------_
$our-et  CNPq, 1989.



47
BibliotraDhZ
Bernstein, J.I., and Nadiri, M.I., "Interindustry R&D Spiilovers, Rates of
Return and Production in High-tech Industries," NBER Working Paper No.
2554, 1988.
CAPES, Brazil, 'Plano de Metas pera Forma,go de Recursos Humanos e
Desenvolvimento Cientifico e Tecnologico 1987-89', preliminar
version,198?.
CNPq, Ciencia e Tecnologia, Recursos do Tesouro da Uniao: Dotagao Inlcial,
Dotagao Final, e Despesa Realizada 1980-89, May 1989.
CNPq (1984?). PADCT Documento Bisico, mimeo.
Cockburn, I. and Griliches, 2., "Industry Effects and Appropriability Measures
in the Stock Market's Valuation of R&D and Patents," Harvard Institute
of Economic Research, Discussion Paper No. 1360, 1987.
Dasgupta, P. and Kaskin, E., "The Simple Economics of Research Portfolios,'
University of Cambridge, Economic Theory Discussion Paper No. 105, 1986.
Evenson, R., 'Technology. Productivity Growth ani Economic Development,' ;n G.
Ranis and T.P. Schultz. The State af Development Economics, Blackwell,
1988, pps 486-524.
Ferreira  J. P. Diretrizes de Politica Cientifica e Tecnol6gica.  Paper
presented at the Forum Nacional Id4ias para a Moderniza9lo do Brasil,
November 23-25, 1988, (city), Brazil, p.14.
Freeman, C., 'Technical Change and Long-term Economic Growth," Paper presented
at the World Bank Seminat on Technology and Long-term Ecomonic Growth
Prospects, Washington, DC, 16-17 November, 1988.
Frischtak, C. R. 'The Protection of Intellectual Property Rights and
industrial Technology Development in Brazil," The World Bank Industry
and Energy Department, Industry Series Paper No. 13, September 1989.
Griliches, Z. and Nairesse, J., 'R&D and Productivity Growths Comparing
Japanese and U.S. Manufacturing Firms,' NBER Working Paper Series, No.
17781 1985.
Griliches, Z., Pakes, A. and Hall B.S., "The Value of Patents as Indicators of
Inventive Activity,' NBER Working No. 2083.
iolanda, N. & Reis, 2. S., Financiamento ao Desenvolvimento Cientifico e
Tecnol6gico. Paper presented at the Forum Nacional Id6ias para a
Modernizaclo do Brasil, November 23-25, 1988, Brazil.
Kim, U.K., 'Brazil Science and Technology Science Memorandum," The World Bank,
June 20, 1983.



48
Levin. R.C., Ulevorick, A.L, Nelson, .R1., and Winter, S.G., "Appropriating
the Returns from Industrial Research and Development, ' Brookinas Paoers
on Economic ActiviLt, 1987t 783- 831.
Mansfield, B., *Protection of Intelectual Property Rights In Developing
Countries,", mimo, 1988.
Psacharopoulos, G. & Saliba, A. "Is Brazil's PADCT-I1 Economically
Justified?" The World Bank, mimeo, June 1989.
SRI International/Science and Technology Program. New Directions for
U.S.-Latin American Cooperation in Science and Technology, Technical
Note STPP-TN-3164-4, 1988.
Tassey, G., 'The Role of the National Bureau of Standards in Supporting
Industrial Innovation,*, IEEM Transactions on Entineerina Management,
Vol. 33, N 3, 1986* 162-171.
UNESCO, Statistical Yearbook 1988.
The World Bank. Brazil: Project for Science and Technology, Staff Appraisal
Report No. 5153-BR, aleo, 1985.
The World Bank.  Brazils  Issues in Science and Tecbnology Development.
Report No. 4819(a)-BR, mieo, 1984.
The World Bank. Brazils Science and Technology Sector Memorandum, mimeo,
June 20, 1983. (Original source: CNPq, Dados Bisicos de CiOncia e
Technologia; E.I. Paulinyi, Revista Brasileira de Tecnologia, 1982,
13:4, p. 51.)
'_1.u)



49
ANNEX 2
BRAZIL
Brazil's Science Funding and Imnlementing Agencies
1.    The most important Government agency financing and undertaking science
research is the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development
(CNPq).The CNPq provides funds for researchers in the form of salary
increments and also provides support in the form of research grants, usually
to individual researchers and for relatively small amounts. Along with its
grant program, CNPq administer_ eleven separate research institutes and a
large scholarship program (at present, there are 30,000 CNPq scholarships
inside Brazil and 3,500 overseas). CNPq has 1,000 employees, and has a modest
science planning and analytical capacity. Each year, 40,000-50.000
applications for grants come in to CNPq's offices (including travel grants),
along with 100,000 applications for scholarships. CNPq provides for a third
of the applicants in each category. The total budget in 1989 was US$291
million, most of which went to top off researchers' salaries. An estimated
US$50 million went for research grants. CNPq uses a peer review system to
evaluate research grant requests, which are generally unsolicited, and
approves such grants about four times a year. CNPq has become an unwieldy
bureaucracy which requires streamlining as well as possibly closing down some
of its r6search institutes. The recently named president of CNPq has been one
of its strongest critics and he is currently devising a major reorganization
of the institution.
The Agency for Financing of Studies and Projects (FINE?) is a public
corporation which acts both as a conventional research foundation and as a
development bank lending funds for technological innovation in Brazilian
industry. FINEP was set up in 1967 to develop Brazil's engineering industry.
It has 700 staff, more than 100 with doctoral or masters' degrees, and in 1988
supported 1,840 projects split almost equally between scientific research and
technological development (projects range from university research on AIDS to
an industrial company's first attempt to develop the first fully Brazilian
automobile). FINEP also functions as the Executive Secretariat for the
National Scientific and Technological Development Fund (FNDCT), a major
government source of grant funding for infrastructure, new buildings and new
equipment in the science and technology sector. In 1989 about US$60 million
was expended under FNDCT. Traditionally FINEP makes awards under FNDCT on the
basis of evaluation by its own staff, as well as some ad-hoc reviewers from
the science comunmity. In addition, for many years FINEP, a Rio based
institution, has been providing large scale institutional support to an
engineering center at the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro as well as
support for science research at the Catholic University of Rio. Almost 90? of
FINEP awards are for continuation of ongoing research programs.
The Coordination for Advanced Training of Higher Education Personnel
(CAPES) of the Ministry of Education (MEC) is the agency for graduate
education in Brazil. CAPES's principal instruments of support have been



so
grants and fellowships for study in Brazil and abroad for individuals
preparing for careers in university teaching and research (in 1989, CAPES
supported 14,000 students at Brazilian universities and to 2,000 students in
North America and Europe). CAPES certifies and rates all graduate programs in
terms of overall quality and provides support to 700 graduate courses (two-
thirds of all the courses in the country). It also runs a program to help
build up institutions so that they can offer new courses. In 1989 CAPES'
total budget was equivalent to US$200 million.
The National Institute for Metrology, Standardization and Industrial
Quality (INMETRO) is Brazil's national bureau of standards and measurement.
It includes a national standards laboratory, with world class equipment
(located near Rio de Janeiro) and provides support for secondary measurement
laboratories throughout the country as well as for state and local efforts in
legal metrology. INMETRO is currently subordinated to the Ministry of Justice
but efforts are underway to incorporate it into SECT. INMETSO has a
reasonably strong corps of technicians but has been beset for some time by
lack of high level scientific research capacity. The National Institute of
Intellectual Property (INPI), Brazil's patent office, is also currently
located in the Ministry of Justice.
Recently state efforts in S&T have increased significantly. The
Foundation for Promotion of Science in Sao Paulo (FAPESP) is the oldest and
strongest of these institutions. In 1990 FAPESP will receive by law 12 of
state income each year to spend on scientific research. In 1989, this agency
provided approximately US$20 million in research funding (0.52 of st.,te
income). FAPESP has a very small permAnent staff, utilizes active scientists
at all levels of decision making, and is a highly efficient and effective
institution, albeit relatively small. Within the last few years, numerous
states, including Rio Grande do Sul, Rio de Janeiro, and Mlinas Gerais, have
set up similar funding agencies, most of which are in the process of getting
organized. In the near future these states may be funding as much as US$250
million per year in R&D and a mechanism will need to be set up for
coordinating these various efforts.
A variety of other federal institutions also undertake basic and applied
research.  The most important of these is the Brazilian Enterprise for
Agricultural and Live Stock Research (EIEBRAPA), which in 1988 spent more than
US$200 million for applied agricultural research. The World Bank has been
supporting EMBRAPA's research effort through a series of loans, the last one
being a US$47.0 million loan presented to the Board in late 1989 mainly to
strengthen agricultural research in the Amazon and Northeast. Other key
agencies include the National Council for Nuclear Energy (CNEN), the National
Institute for Space Research (INPE), and the Oswaldo Crux Foundation (FIOCRUZ)
doing health research. In addition, the military undertakes a variety of
research programs. Annex 1, Table 6 summarizes expenditures of all federal
government agencies involved in S&T.
The main implementing agencies for science research are the graduate
programs of federal and state universities. In particular the State
Universities of Sao Paulo and of Campinss (in Sao Paulo) do research of world
class quality. Other strong research u. versities include the federal



51
universities of Rio de Janeiro, Santa Catirtina, Mlnas 6erals, Rio Grande do
Sul, Peraumbuco, and Bahai. Escept for the Catholic University of U o and one
or two other confessional universities, private universities do not enga 8,
science research. A few large parastatals, especially Petrobrac, have stroa
research groups.



52
ANNEX 3
Summary of PADCT I and II Subprograms
Biotechnoloxy
Justification
Biotechnology, the manipulation of cell systems for specific and
pre-defined goals, is progressing rapidly worldwide. The impetus for
this growth was the discovery of the nature of DNA, the fundamental
building block of life, in the late 1950s. Recent products of economic
importance generated by biotechnological means include vaccines,
diagnostic kits, and plants resistant to pathogens and herbicides. In
the future the use of biotechnology is expected to multiply as
techniques become more widespread and more knowledge becomes available.
Brazil's extraordinarily diverse biomass constitutes an important
resource for entering this field. Brazilian scientists may be able to
identify new uses for this biomass. Furthermore, many applications in
biotechnology, such as crop improvement, must be developed locally.
Since the discipline is still in its infancy, Brazil has the opportunity
to make a rapid entry requiring relatively little catching-up, provided
it has an adequate number of well trained people and R&D centers.
PADCT I
With this in mind, a central objective of PADCT I was human
resource formation and stimulation of research in the specific areas of
health, agriculture, animal husbandry, and energy. To date the sub-
program has supported 125 projects. Some projects of particular
interest ares the development of a virus-resistant potato strain; a
leishmania vaccine is now available through the joint efforts of the
Federal University of Minas Gerais and Biobras; the first steps have
been taken to produce insulin by genetic engineering after having first
established the technique of extracting insulin from animals and
humanizing this protein for human consumption through enzymatic
cleavage; and work is underway on the preservation of animal germ
plasmas to improve livestock through embryo transfer techniques is
underway.
PADCT II Strateay and Obiectives
The general objectives under PADCT II are to continue to
strengthen Brazil's human resource capacity for basic and applied
research in biotechnology, which will eventually result in the
establishment of biotechnology industries. Detailed objectives and
strategy are outlined below.



53
I.    Overall Objectives
A.    Strengthen biotecbnology in human health
1.    Support research leading to production of
iaunobiological materials
2.   Develop methods for diagnosis or treatment of
illnesses, using monoclonal antibodies, molecular
probes, and recombinant or synthetic proteins
B.    Strengthen biotechnology in agriculture
1.   Obtain genetically improved plants
2.   Obtain secondary metabolites of commercial interest
through cell cultures and vegetative growth
3.    Genetic improvement of micro-organisms for purposes of
control, diagnosis, or improved absorption of
nutrients
C.   Biotechnology in animal husbandry
1.   Develop diagnostic methods and immunological and
molecular techniques
2.    Produce vaccines using biotechnology
3.   Improve reproduction using biotechnology
D.   Industrial biotechnology
1.    Improve processes
2.    Develop biotechnology products
It.   Human resources development to meet (t) above
A.   Finance up to 50 short courses
S.    Utilise up to 150 foreign consultants
C.    Provide overseas training for up to 250 professionals
D.    Establish Interchange with up to 150 foreign researchers
E.    Support up to 75 professionals in specific research projects
ltI.  Research and Development in (I) above
A.    Support 30 projects in scientific development
B.   Support 20 projects in technology development



54
IV.   Support and Services
A.   Ensure provision of biotechnology consumables
B.    Implant a system of on-line electronic dissemination
C.    Support 2 bio-terrariums
D.    Support 1 center of animal cells
E.    Support a limited number of reference centers with the
capacity to synthesize and sequence DNA and peptides
F.    Establish a system of monitoring and evaluation
Budiet by Obiectives                                         US$m
II.   Human resources development                                  10.0
I11.  Research and development                                      56.2
IV.   Support and services                                          8.0
74.2-1
Chemistry and Chemical Enaineerina
Justification
Brazil's chemical industry is one of the ten largest in the world
and accounts for about five percent of Brazil's GNP. This industry
utilizes well-established and to a certain extent old-fashioned
technologies, which in the past have not required the employment of
highly qualified personnel with graduate training. Historically
government support for research in chemistry and chemical engineering
has been low, especially compared to physics. There is a need to
increase the base of human resources, so as to eventually ensure that
the chemical industry keeps pace with world developments.
PADCT I
The objective of PADCT I was to support the training of chemistry
researchers and to strengthen research teams. PADCT I re-equipped
graduate and undergraduate programs throughout the country; strengthened
16 graduate research centers; established and/or strengthened three
specialized national laboratories in spectroscopy, chromatography, and
natural products; established three centers for emerging chemistry areas
1 Budget does not include local importation expenses (see table 3.1).



55
(pharmaceutical synthesis, polymers and photochemistry, organic
synthesis); supported a variety of joint ventures between universities,
research institutes, and industries; and supported the establishment of
a central and regional chemistry libraries.
PADCT II Obiectives and Strateay
PADCT II will continue the human resource development emphasis of
PADCT I. In addition, it will emphasize research in areas involving
chemicals of technological importance, such as bioactive substances,
additives (i.e, substances which, when added in small amounts to paints,
give these materials special properties), and methods of separation and
purification. The priority research activities include chemical
dynamics, physical-chemistry of surfaces and of clusters, elementary
processes, and basic process engineering. These areas are
scientifically sophisticated and of importance both for the training of
highly qualified personnel at a graduate level and for the development
and adaptation of important new technologies for the chemical industry.
Specific objectives and strategy are outlined below.
I.    Strengthen human resources development
A.    Improve infrastructure of graduate level courses (up to 38
courses)
B.    Strengthen undergraduate instruction (up to 40 courses)
C.    Provide scholarships for undergraduate and graduate
education, including 75 new doctorates
D.    Support international exchange programs
E.    Train research support personnel
II.   Strengthen the development of basic scientific knowledge
A.    Support up to 25 consolidated research groups with multi-
year grants (up to 5 years)
B.    Support up to 40 emerging groups led by a qualified
researcher
III.  Support university- and research institute-based programs related
to the development of new products and processes (up to 35
projects)
A.    Dissertations with chemical industry applications
B.    Research groups working on new products and processes
C.    Meetings and information dissemination



56
D.    Small pilot plants for studies in large scale transformation
S.    Studies on technology issues in the chemlcal industry
IV.   Support R&D programs related to technological development of the
chemical industry (up to 25 programs, with co-financing by
industry)
A.    Support R&D laboratories with strong technology capacities
B.   Support joint industryluniversity R&D projects
C.    Support joint projects focussing on developing chemistry
equipment
V.    Strengthen support services
A.    Support up to five regional analytical centers
B.    Strengthen the national chemistry library
C.   Strengthen up to 10 regional libraries
D.    Support an additional 15 libraries
PADCT II Budset by Obiectives                                  US&m
1.    Human resources development                                    35.1
1I.   Development of basic scientific knowledge                      34.0
_1.  Now products and processes                                      11.5
IV.   R&D programs                                                   11.5
V.    Strengthen support services                                     11.0
103.1
Geosciences and Mineral Technoloay
Justification
The rationale for including this area in PADCT I was Brazil's
richness in mineral resources, coupled with a level of exploitation of
these resources far below what was potentially possible. Lack of
adequate human resources was identified as a significant bottleneck for
the development of this field. The geosciences and mineral technology
institutions in the country were assessed as widely variable, both in
terms of standards and productivity, and there was little interaction
between more theoretical and more practical work. In this field



57
interfaces are important because the economic return from investment in
R&D depends to a large extent on an efficient flow of information from
science into both exploration and exploitation of resources. There are
extensive deficiencies in basic geosciences knowledge about Frazil. In
addition, a series of issues associated with mining effects on
environmental degradation need to be considered.
PADCT I
Under PADCT I, the infrastructure of laboratories operating in
geosciences and mineral technology was improved, new research activities
were initiated, and the training of graduate students was increased.
New laboratories in part supported by this subprogram have enabled
Brazilian earth scientists to produce high quality data. New types of
mineral deposits were discovered as with the gold deposits of the Amazon
region (a single, new, gold deposit recently discovered in the Amazon
will more than pay for the proposed total cost of PADCT II). Some
specific achievements include the installation of a modern mass
spectrometry laboratory aimed principally at geochronological studies,
publication of research on the Parana basin, and research on modelling
of processes aimed at better use of coals. Earlier editais were found
to be excessively detailed and awards were too small; the last edital
attempts to overcome this problem through proposing larger awards for
major centers.
PADCT II Obiectives and Strateav
I.    Support basic research in geosciences
E.    Strengthen infrastructures of laboratories, including
laboratories in geochronology, stable isotopes, analytical
laboratories, geophysics, petroleum/mineralogy analysis,
remote sensing, experimental geology, and seismology
F.   Support up to 100 research programs in areas such as pre-
Cambrian geology, basic geophysics, and other elements in
(A) above
G.    Support a variety of doctoral and post doctoral programs in
(A) above
B.    Support studies and seminars
I.    Strengthen maintenance and libraries
II.   Support applied mineral research
A.    Strengthen laboratories in universities and publicly
financed research institutes in the areas of applied
geophysics, analytic prospecting, mining, rock mechanics,
and mineral treatment



58
8.    Support up to 50 research projects in prospecting, mining,
mineral treatment and mineral economlcs
C.   Support a variety of graduate and post graduate training
programs and interchange programs in the above
D.    Support services and studies
E.    Strengthen maintenance and libraries
III.  Develop extractive processes
A.    Establish or strengthen laboratories in universities and in
publicly financed research institutes in hydro and electro
metallurgy, pirometallurgy and extractive processes
D.    Support up to 40 research projects in the above areas
C.    Support doctorate and post doctorate programs in the above
areas
D.    Support up to five studies and 10 seminars
B.    Strengthen maintenance and libraries
IV.   Support research on physical environment use and occupation
A.    Support laboratories in geotechnics, environmental geology,
hydro-geology, mineralogy and environmental, and mineral
pollution
D.    Support up to 60 research projects in the above
C.    Support training in the above
D.    Support studies and seminars in the above
E.    Strengthen maintenance and libraries
V.   Establish a system to evaluate and monitor the subprogram
activities



59
Budget by Obiectives                                    USSm
I.    Support basic research in geosciences                   26.1
II.   Support applied mineral research                        16.6
III.  Develop extractive processes                            11.2
IM.   Support research on physical environment
use and occupation                                      16.8
V.    Subprogram evaluation                                    1.3
72.0
Instrumentation
Justification
Instrumentation, the science and associated technology used to
detect, observe, measure and register any reaction or phenomenon, as
well as to transfer the information derived to control systems, is an
indispensable ingredient in every scientific endeavor. Instruments are
the concrete result of applying such knowledge. Instrumentation
production involves the following well-defined steps: (i) determination
of the technical specification; (ii) research and experimentation into
the ability and means to meet the specification at a competitive cost,
including full consideration of the characteristics of the potential
market; (iii) prototype development, construction, and testing; (iv)
production engineering and planning; (v) trial batch production and
testing; and (vi) full-scale production. Instrumentation is a multi-
disciplinary technology combining the skills of physicists, chemists,
and mechanical, electrical and electronic engineers. The country's
rapid industrialization beginning in the 19608 and the explosive
expansion of higher education that occurred simultaneously were
supported with imported instrumentation. Brazil has a very small
instrumentation industry and a limited number of engineers, physicists
and other scientists with expertise in the field.
PADCT I
The objectives of this subprogram were to train human resources in
the requisite skills and to develop in Brazil an instrumentation
capability. An inventory of 30 prototype instruments was developed in
the areas of industrial process control and biomedical, analytical,
electrical, electronic, and mechanical measurement, which are available
for transfer to the industrial sector for commercialization. Six
instruments are now in commercial production. Several instruments are
low cost, stripped down versions of sophisticated instruments on the
international market; these versions are expected to find a market niche
in Brazil and overseas. The program has been very successful in



60
encouraging Joint efforts of physicists and engineers and in linking
university-based research and training with industry. However the
critical mass of human resources and of operating research centers is
still far from adequate.
PADCT It Strateax and Obiectives
Under PADCT II, the objective of this subprogram continues to be
the strengthening human resoucces in the area and the development of the
national capacity to produce instrumentation using as a foundation the
results obtained from PADCT I.  A summary of objectives and strategy
follows.
I.    Strengthen the national capacity to produce components and
materials needed in instrumentation in the ares of precision
mechanics, microelectronics, optics, etc.
A.    Support for up to 3 years about 10 projects carried out by
university and non-profit research institutions to develop
specific new technology for the production of
instrumentation components, such as microsensors, vacuum
deposit systems, fine films, ultrasound, and nuclear
magnetic resonance
B.    Support for up to 3 years about 10 projects carried out
jointly by research institutions and industries to produce
components and materials needed in instrumentation and for
which technology is either already available or in
development, such as diode matrices, crystal liquid screens,
and sensors
C.    Support for up to 3 years about 15 projects carried out
jointly by R&D institutions and industries through programs
to develop techniques or components, such as diffraction
networks, manipulators, and instrument automation
UI.   Support research on innovative ideas and development of
instrumentation prototypes which may not have immediate commercial
applications (about 30 projects to develop prototypes of
instruments, such as blood coagulation parameter ;.nitors,
biochemical analyzers, and ELISA test automators, in research
institutions)
Ifl. Promote the production of integrated systems, such as digital
control systems, with national technology by joint ventures
between selected R&D institutions of excellence and
instrumentation industries (about 10 projects carried out by R&D
centers and induatries. Participating industries would commit
themselves to pay royalties if they decide to commercially produce
the products)



61
IV.   Finance human resources development in Instrumentation (600
beginning-level scholarships to promising undergraduate students
working on Instrumentation projects)
V.   Strengthen and consolidate the Instrumentation Information Systez
which provides researchers with lnformation on market tendencies,
services and products availability, and other relevant areas of
instrumentation planning
A.    Strengthen and maintain library holdings by financing the
acquisition of monographs, reportz, and technical works
S.    Publish informaticAal materials, such as bulletins, product
catalogs, training opportunities catalogs, etc.
VI.  Monitor and evaluate contracted projects
A.   Conduct biyearly studies of the status of instrumentation
nationally and Internationally to redirect the subprogram
priorities, if needed
B.    Organize yearly seminars and exhibits where project outcomes
can be evaluated and disseminated to the public.
C.   Coordinate in loco 130 evaluation visits by instrumentation
experts to project sites.
VII. Support competitive research and development in the new field of
mecha-optico-olectronics, which combines the technologies of
mechanices, optics, and electronics, by consolidating existing
infra-structure in well established research centers and promoting
human resource development.
Budiet by Obiectives                                              USSm
I.    Strengthen national instrumentation capacity                19.8
II.   Support Innovation development                               4.0
III.  Support production of integrated systems                     4.0
IV.   Human resource development                                   0.65
V.    Information systems                                          3.5
VI.  Monitoring and evaluation                                     0.5
VII.  Support R&D in mecha-optico-electronics                      3.1
Total     35.6



62
Science Plannine and M(anatement
Justification and PADCT I
As Brazil increases its commitment of resources to science and
technology, the more important becomes the appropriate planning and
management of these resources. When PADCT I was initiated, the academic
basis for science policy planning and management was confined to a small
number of academic centers. This subprogram's main objective was to
foster the development of the academic basis in this field of knowledge
in Brazil. As a result of the support provided by PADCT I, graduate
programs in three large universities (USP, UFRJ, UNICAMP) were
strengthened, masters and doctoral degrees with a concentration in
science policy planntig and management were awarded, and technicians
involved with R&D activities in the productive sector were trained.
This subprogram, however, suffered from significant funding cuts vis-a-
via its original proposal, and an excessive fragmentation of resources
as reflected on the low average size of grants.
PADCT II Obiectives and Strateav
The second phase of PADCT will avoid fragmentation of resources by
giving preferential support to "lines of research" rather than to
individual studies. It will invest in the consolidation of permanent
research groups with long-term covditment to a research agenda in
science and technology planning and management. The program is centered
on universities, avoiding large involvement of government agencies in
the execution of the re-aarch agenda. This subprogram is also concerned
with the dissemination of appropriate planning and management practices
which will help to improve the performwnce of the overall Brazilian
science and technology system. The basic mechanisms to achieve this
goal are the program of technical assistance to PADCT itself and the
program of advanced training for analysts and managers, which will
target professionals working in universities, research institutes, and
R&D centers in the productive sector. An outline of objectives and
strategies follows.
T.    Human resources development
A.    Grant overseas scholarships for 10 doctorates and 10 post-
doctorates, plus training of personnel in 40 short courses
B.    Grant national scholarships for 75 masters degrees, 8
trainees per year, and 10 visiting researchers per year
II.   Institutional development
A.    Support up to three integrated institutional programs and 12
thematic programs dealing with one or more of the following
topicss social control of technology, emerging new



63
technologies, industrial competitiveness, International
cooperation, public policy, information, technology
management, strengthening of university research
ITI. Provide support to PADCT
A.    Studies and technical assistance to strengthen PADCT,
especially in monitoring and evaluation
B.    Development of a technical and management information system
for PADCT
Budiet by Obiectives                             USSm
I.    Human resources                                   2.5
11.   Institutional development                         5.8
ITI.  Support to PADCT                                  1.3
9.6
Environment
Justification
The Brazilian Government's recently Increased commitment to
protecting its environment requires strengthening its institutional and
analytic capacity so as to ensure that policies are undertaken with a
firm scientific basis. In particular, Brazil needs to train multi-
disciplinary scientists who can together tackle the complexity of the
country's vast environmental diversity. More knowledge is especially
needed about the Amazon ecosystem.
PADCT-II Obiectives and Strateaies
This subprogram will promote an intersectoral approach to
environmental research through the creation of multidisciplinary teams,
the integration of training and research, and the study of technologies
to maintain and improve the quality of the environment. Special efforts
would be made to train economists and other social scientists in
environmental issues. Particular attention will be placed on
coordinating with other PADCT subprograms to devise ways of integrating
diverse scientific disciplines, and of organizing research tasks for
addressing environmental issues around multidisciplinary teams,
especially in the areas of geosciences and mineral technology and
biotechnology. An outline of detailed objectives and strategy follows.
I.    Support graduate training programs that emphasize
interdisciplinary research and holistic approaches to
environmental issues



64
A.   Finance installation, improvement, andlor upgrading of
facilities and equipment used by 5 graduate programs
B.    Grant scholarships and fellowships for attendance of degree-
as well as and nondegree graduate programs in the country
and overseas
J.    Promote exchange programs of national and international
researchers
II.   Support interdisciplinary research projects, organized intra- or
inter-institutionally, that approach environmental dynamics from
an open system perspective
A.    Support, on a multi-year basis, existing, well established
research groups
B.    Encourage the emergence of new research groups
_II. Support research and development of methods, processes,
techniques. and products for diagnosis, prognosis, and prevention
of environmental problems, as well as the restoration of
environmental quality
IV.  Monitor and evaluate subprogram activities
A.   Promote the organization of scientific events where
subprogram participants can share research outcomes
B.    Conduct studies to understand the impact of the subprogram
activities on the nation's environment management
C.   Organize procedures to monitor and evaluate the contracted
projects
Budget by Obiectives                                 USSm
T.    Human resources development                          13.5
II.   Research                                              6.8
III.  Environmental technology development                  6.8
IV.   Monitoring and evaluation                             1.1
28.2



65
New Materials
Justification
"New materials" are defined as materials with properties which do
not appear in nature and vhich can be developed through a variety of
advanced manufacturing techniques. These materials may utilize abundant
raw materials which through special treatment, acquire a high unit
value. New materials are generally divided into ceramics, metals,
polymers, and composites which result from a combination of the above
three materials. Unique combinations developed in the laboratory
facilitate an endless series of possibilities for electrical,
structural, magnetic, refractory, and nuclear uses. In recent years,
new materials have shown impressive market growth rates. Prominent
among these are fiber optics, semiconductors, electro-electrcnic
ceramics, special metallic alloys, metal-ceramic composite materials,
carbon fiber composites, and materials for bioengineering. These and
other inventions are related directly to the fundamental microstructure
of the materials from which they are made. New materials are
increasingly replacing traditional ones such as steel and aluminum and
are serving particular functions in key industries such as mechanics,
aeronautics, transportation, and biotechnology.
Brazil needs to strengthen its human resources capacity in the
areas of materials science and materials engineering for a number of
reasons. Industries such as automobile manufacturing and the
petrochemical industry will need to keep pace with international
developments in materials. Brazil's traditional exports of iron, steel
and aluminum may decrease because of the development of new materials
with characteristics of strength and light weight which can substitute
for traditional metals, and Brazil's abundant supplies of rare earths
may find new uses. Brazil has already developed a capacity in optical
fibers which are being manufactured using technology developed through
laboratory research, and carbon fibers developed by research centers in
the field of composites are being used in the aircraft industry.
PADCT-II Obiectives and StrategLes
I.    Support human resources development in basic sciences (chemistry,
physics, metals, etc.) and applied sciences (engineering)
A.    Grant 25 fellowships for post-doctoral studies overseas
B.    Grant 80 doctoral scholarships overseas and 20 master's
scholarships in the country
C.    Grant 350 fellowships for specialization and technical
visits in the country as well as overseas



66
1. Strengthen the knowledge basis in new materials science In
universities, research institutes, and industry, by supporting
research projects that seek to characterize the structure and
intrinsic properties of new materials without concern for their
industrLal potentials and performance
A.   Finance up to 10 existing research groups for up to flve
years
B.    Finance up to 6 new research groups, for up to five years
III. Strengthen the knowledge basis in materials engineering in
universitLes, research institutes, and industries, by supporting
research projects that seek to design and develop new materials
with potential industrial applications
A.   Finance up to 10 large-scale projects
B.   Finnce up to 25 medium-scale projects
IV.  Support service centers and libraries
A.   Establish up to 5 hlgh-leveX service centers, operating
regionally or nationally, capable of characterizing
materials using technlques such as chemlcal analysis,
electronLc microscopy, microprobe analysis, and X-ray
diffraction, which are not available in the existing
laboratories
B.    Upgrade up to 10 reglonal llbraries, increasing thelr
holdings of specLalLed publications in materials sciences
and engineering sclences and automatizing their lnformation
retrieval systems
V.   Operational support activities
A.   Set up a system of management, monitoring, and evaluation of
the activlties of the subprogram
B.   Finance 20 studies to be used as input to management,
monitoring, and evaluation actlvities
C.   Organize 10 thematic seminars to dissemlnate the work
supported by the subprogram
Budaet by Ob1ective                                   USSm
1.     uman resource development                             0 J*
II.   Research in materials sciences                        17.8



67
II1.  Research in engineering sciences                       25.0
IV.   Development of research support centers                21.0
V.    Management, monitoring, and evaluation                  2.2
66.0
Covered with local funds by the Human Resources Development Program
for Strategic Areas (RHAE).
Science Education
Justification
The improvement of science education in primary and secondary
school is essential for increased utilization of science and technology
in the Brazilian economy, not only because it helps to identify and
encourage talented students to become working scientists, but also
because a basic knowledge of science is becoming increasingly important
for manpower working in agriculture, industry, and commerce. While few
facts are available, it is generally acknowledged that science education
at the primary and secondary level, except in a few private schools, is
inadequate by any standard. This is undoubtedly part of larger problems
with public education in Brazil, which suffers from high rates of drop-
out and repetition, a continuing drop in the prestige of the teaching
profession, and continuing middle class flight from public to private
schools, especially in secondary education. Science education may be
particularly weak because of lack of funds for equipment, the generally
low level of teacher training, and, until recently, lack of interest by
scientists in pedagogical problems.
PADCT I
In response to these difficult and complex problems, the science
education subprogram under PADCT I set out to encourage practicing
scientists to join with educators in trying to improve science
education. As a result, during project implementation this sub-program
supported a wide variety of experiments and programs in in-service
teacher training, curriculum and materials development, as well as
masters and doctoral level programs. The subprogram also successfully
linked educators and scientists in the beginnings of a constituency
concerned with the problems of science education in Brazil. Given the
recent start of the program and the limited number of persons involved,
as yet the subprogram has not had a significant impact on science
education as a whole.



68
PADCT-I1 Obiectives and Strate2a
In view of this situation, under PADCT II the subprogram will
focus on establishing networks of university, local and administrative
groups committed to innovation in science education and on expanding
successful pilot programs through seeking co-financing with state and
local governments and industry. To correct observed problems under
PADCT I, the subprogram will concentrate resources on fewer programs and
will support advanced degrees in the areas of science and mathematics,
curriculum development, as well as in tests and measurement. Proposals
will be prepared for Brazil's participation in international assessments
of science and mathematics. Detailed objectives and strategy are
outlined below.
I.    Support research and studies in science education
A.    10 consolidated groups with research experience
B.    20 emerging groups with some qualified researchers
It.   Support innovative programs for training primary and secondary
school science teachers in areas such as curriculum, methodology,
exchange programs and sandwich type courses
A.    100 training courses for primary and second education
B.   15 specialization courses
C.    Seven masters or doctorate courses
III.  Strengthen in-service training, with an emphasis on continuous up-
grading and on participation of local and state authorities
A.    Support 10 continuous training programs reaching 35,000
teachers per year
B.    Support three in-service distance teaching programs
reaching 100,000 teachers
IV.   Strengthen five interdisciplinary centers
V.    Support production and dissemination of educational materials
A.    Nine groups with educational materials capacity
B.    Ten centers for lending materials
C.    Assist in supporting five books of relevance
D.    Five bulletins describing important PADCT financed
projects



69
E.    Support, on an experimental basls, two televlsioa serles for
primary and secondary school teachers
W.   Support, on an experimental basls, short co=merclals8
directed at the general public
VI.   Disseminate sclence knowledge and awareness to the larger
community
A.    Six science centers
8.    15 sclence falr.
C.    Five science or mathematics olymplcs
D.    18 meetings and symposla
Z.    Publlcatlon of five perlodlcals
VIZ. High level human resource development
A.   a0 masters and doctorates overseas
S.   180 masters and doctorates in Brazil
C.    15 post-doctorates overseas
D.    50 short courses overseas
Z.    50 vislts to centers of excellence
P.    100 supports for participatlon In overseas events
VIII. Programs dlrectly under CAPES
A.    Support programs of evaluatlon of sclence and mathematics,
including Brasill' participation in  international
evaluations
B.   Competition for monographs on sclence and mathematlcs
C.   Awards for distinguished teaching
D.   Competltions for innovative materials



70
Budget by Objectives                                      USSm
I.    Support research and studies in science education           1.6
II.   Training primary and secondary school science teachers   13.1
III.  Strengthen in-service training                             5.5
IV.   Strengthen five interdisciplinary centers                   0.0
V.    Produce and disseminate educational materials               4.5
VI.   Disseminate science knowledge to the larger community       4.6
VII.  Human resource development                                 11.7
VIII. Programs under CAPES                                        1.7
42.7
Basic Industrial Technology
Justification
Public investment in TIB is considered to be of importance because
industry underinvests in evaluated data and such nonproprietary
technologies as measurement and test methods. Brazil's industries are
particularly deficient in this area and rapid progress will be needed in
the near term especially if Brazilian products are to penetrate markets
such as the EEC after 1992, with its strict quality controls to be based
on ISO 9000 standards. Within Brazil, individual enterprises have
adopted their own standards with a resulting proliferation of
incompatible products. Furthermore, Brazilian industry is not geared to
keep abreast of recent technological developments because of a lack of
an adequate information system.
PADCT I
To confront some of these problems, the basic industrial
technology subprogram under PADCT I supported various policy studies on
TIB, provided a significant amount of equipment and training to INMETRO,
contributed to the development of secondary calibration and test
laboratories, supported the creation of a national network of technical
information services, including technical information nuclei, and
developed a national system of training in management and quality
control. As a result of PADCT I INMETRO has been considerably
strengthened but still suffers from a lack of high level researchers.
It will need to be further strengthen and re-organized so as to meet its
goals. Only a portion of the industry studies proposed were undertaken
and their impact has not been evaluated. The training programs have
been acknowledged to be highly successful and will need to be expanded.
The information centers have had mixed results, and require better
marketing and increased co-financing by industry. The TIB program as a
whole suffered from lack of leadership in the last year because of



71
ministerial re-organization. With the establishment of the Department of
Support in the SCT, the program promises to have strong leadership in
the near future.
PADCT TI Obiectives and Strateav
Under PAJCT II, this subprogram has been designed to continue to
address some of the problems in the sub-sector and to strengthen the
interface between research and technology development in industry
through continuing the four programs in the areas of metrology, quality
control training, information provision, and studies. The studies
component has been cut back and partially replaced by the proposed
commission report on industrial productivity. In addition, the
provision of equipment to INMETRO has also been cut back because of its
inadequate human resources. Furthermore, to ensure the improvement of
scientific metrology services, a technical committee composed of experts
whose qualifications and experience should be satisfactory to the Bank,
will be appointed within two months after loan effectiveness for the
duration of the project. This technical committee will review all
proposals for financing of equipment and training for primary and
secondary metrology laboratories. All such proposals will include
information on availability of qualified technical staff and on steps to
be taken to improve provision of metrology services including training
and recruitment of staff and improved management. A major effort will
be made in each area to increase cost-recovery and cost sharing by
industry. A detailed outline follows.
I.    Support a set of studies on basic industrial technology, focussing
on industrial complexes and on large scale and macroeconomic
issues affecting the implementation of TIB in Brazil
A.    Global and macroeconomic studies (13 studies)
B.   Studies on integrated sectors and industrial complexes (12
studies)
C.    Case studies (2 studies)
II.   Train and upgrade human resources
A.    Extend the program of training in management and quality
control (3780 trainees in Brazil, 190 overseas scholarships)
B.    Strengthen ongoing training programs in agencies involved in
TIB (1000 participants)
C.    Support courses in TIB in secondary and higher education
institutions (200 masters, doctorates and specializations)
D.    Support training in intellectual property and technology
transfer (535 participants)



72
III. Expand Industry information centers to stimulate demand for basic
industrial technology
A.    Short-term training of industry staff (860 in country, 42
overseas) (co-financed by Industry)
B.   9 films and 18 texts
C.   30 meetings and seminars
D.    50 overseas specialists to visit Brazil
E.    Training in quality control in smll industry (810 trainees)
P.    Establish a coordinating unit
0.    Consolidate the present system of 4 basic nuclei, 10
sectoral centers and 3 regional centers
H.    Establish 4 new sectoral nuclei and 5 new regional centers
I.    Set up a marketing plan for information
J.    Set up a plan for automating information
K.   Automate bibliographies
L.   Microfilm patent information
M.   Support two courses on information
IV.  Strengthen scientific and industrial metrology services
A.    Train personnel (about 200)
B.   Provide additional equipment to INMETRO central laboratory
and to the National Observatory
C.    Increase to 30 the number of secondary laboratories
D.    Support laboratory inter-comparisons
B.    Strengthen legal metrology
P.    Strengthen 3 reference laboratories
G.    Support diffusion of information on metrology



73
Budget by Obiectives                                      WSSM
I.    Support studies on basic industrial technology             1.7
II.   Train and upgrade human resources                         13.7
III.  Expand information centers                                24.0
IV.   Strengthen metrology services                             29.8
69.2
Science Information
Justification
Access to and diffusion of scientific and technical information is
a fundamental prerequisite for technological change and innovation.
There is a need to strengthen information systems and services, so as to
Improve the flow of information to the SET community, to interconnect
these systems, and to establish new systems and services.
PADCT I
The Brazilian Institute for Scientific and Technical Information
(IBICT) was the coordinating and, partially, executing institution for
this sub-program. PADCT I initiated support of human resources
development (including curriculum development), research and
development, and development of a public access system to data bases.
However, the budget of the sub program was reduced by 752 and many
projects were eliminated. The 32 projects that survived the cut lacked
a programmatic coherence. The main lessons learned for the second phase
of PADCT were: (i) the number of projects would be small, so as not to
fragment the sub-program; and (il) all projects would be subordinated to
the larger objective of strengthening the science and technology
information services infrastructure. During the project period IBICT
suffered from a lack of strong leadership as well as staff turnover.
The new leadership team is a strong one committed to strengtben the
institution.
PADCT II Obiectives and Strategy
I.    Human Resources Development
A.    Support up to 4 specialization courses and the training of
150 professionals over five years
B.    Support the organization of seminars
C.    Support up to 15 short courses



74
D.   Financ, short term visits and training
S.    Strengthen maseers degree programs in library and
information science
II. Develop system of public access to data bases (PAS)
A.   Provide equipment to key centers
B.   Link centers via RENPAC
C.   Create appropriate methodologies and standards
D.   Implant a common retrieval language
E.    Install terminals in 10 centers
P.   Disseminate infonmation to the public
G.   Link 15 libraries via the COMUT program
B.   Acquire and instell CD-Rams and tapes
XII. Develop national data bases
A.   Support five documentation centers
S.   Develop methodological instruments for information treatment
C.   Integrate data bases into PAS
IV.  Develop a catalogue of monographs in science and technology
A.   Acquire bibliographies for up to 10 libraries
B.    Develop conversion formats
C.    Develop a manual for inter-library loans
V.    Develop a duplicate center which would distribute up to 800,000
duplicate documents
VI.   Maroitor and coordinate the sub-program



75
Budaet bv Obiectives                           U8$m
I.    Human resources                                  2.0
II.   Public access system                             8.0
III.  National data base                               1.2
IV.   Monographs                                       0.5
V.    Duplicate center                                 0.45
VI.   Monitoring                                       0.15
12.3
Consumables
Justification
Highly trained personnel and sophisticated equipment cannot be
productive without secure and rapid access to a wide range of chemicals
and other research consumables. Difficulties in obtaining necessary
consumables are intrinsic to the natuire of research and teaching
activities in fields such as chemistry and chemical engineering,
biotechnology, and to a lesser degree, geosciences and mineral
technology, since demand is relatively limited and quantities needed are
generally small. These fa~. ors limit the entry of the private sector
into the market, and at the same time they tend to lead foreign
suppliers to be relatively unresponsive to importation requests. in
addition goverrment policies have restrictsd imports by placing
bureaucratic and statutory obstacles in the importation process.
PADCT I
Under PADCT I, this sub-program was established as the result of
an acute shortage of consumables for scientific research in Brazil which
private industry has not been able to meet because of the highly
specific nature and small quantities required. Mechanisms were lacking
to ensure procurement of tLese items from foreign sources within a time
frame compatible with productive research and advanced teavh'ing. The
central objectives of this sub-program for PADCT I were the creation of
a system for rapid supply of chemicals from local and foreign sources,
and encouragement of a domestic fine chemical and consumables
manufacturing base. To this end, a series of supply centers (a central
node and about six regional satellites) were to be established for
stocking and distributing consumables purchased abroad, and a clearing
house was to be created in CNPq for expediting rapid importations
request for chemicals and other co"sumables.  To stimulate local
production, the sub-program included development and regular updating of
catalogs for nationally produced items, studies to ascertain the



76
country's needs and potential production capacity, and establishment of
quality control laboratories. Of the ten groups of sub-projects planned
for PADCT I, only two were satisfactorily executed (including the
establishment of SARDI, the clearinghouse for consumables and reagents,
and UMBRAL, a pr.gram to increase the availability of reagents in small
quantities within the universities). Inadequate monitoring of sub-
project implementation led to delays in reprogramming those sub-
projects. To remedy this situation, monitoring and evaluation
activities will be increased during the second phase of PADCT.
PADCT-II Obiectives and StrateRies
Under PADCT II, the gene::al objective of the sub-program is to
provide the means by which researchers may obtain research consmables
and reagents for teaching and research, within the time period and of
the quality and quantity desired. Given the horizontal nature of the
sub-program, sub-projects to be contracted will aim to create systems
for solving the chronic problem of insufficient quantity and quality of
consumables in Brazil, rather than to provide researchers with
consumables outside of a viable system. The strategy of the sub-program
is generally to finance capital expenditures for start-up or expansion
of a system, and to subsidize operational expenditures on a declining
basis with the subsidy completely disappearing by the end of the second
phase of PADCT. In view of recent changes in government regulations on
importation, SARDI (except the helium gas sub-project) has been
eliminated from the PADCT II proposal. Below is the current outline of
objectives and strategy.
I.    Conduct studies on supply and demand of consumables
A.   Two studies on demand for consumables (to ideatify user
needs) in chemistry, biochemistry, and biotechnology
B.    Two studies on supply of consumables domestically produced
and imported
II.   Develop standards for research consumables, assure quality
control, and promote certification of consumables for research
A.    Set up ar. advisory commission to monitor the subprogram's
activities and select consumables for standardization
B.    Select, through open competition, institutions (public or
private) to carry on, under the supervision of the advising
commission, standardization and quality control of
consumables; the goal is to produce at least 40 standards
per year (to be coordinated with INMETRO)
III. Support training for and production of small quantities of
consumables for which demand is insufficient for commercialization
(UIMBRAL)



77
A.   Develop and test the quality of new materials or chemical
reagents In universities, institutes, laboratories
B.    Support the expansion and improvement of laboratories In
universities
C.    Support the installation of specialized laboratories In
universities to produce and refine new materials
IV.   Strengthen the system of stocking and distributing helium gas
V.    Rebuild stocks of consumables in universities
Budtet by Obiectives                                       USOm
I.    Conduct studies on supply and demand for consumables        0.2
II.   Develop standards for research-consumables                  4.6
TII.  Support small scale production of consumables (UMBRAL)    6.6
IV.   Strengthen the storage and distribution system (SAUDI)    0.8
V.   Rebuld stocks of consumables in universities                 0.7
12.9
Maintenance
Justification
Increases in the amount and sophistication of science equipment
and instrumentatlon in Brazil have not been accompanied by the
development of adequate facilities for repair and maintenance. The
result is that much equipment has been unused because of lack of spare
parts or simple maintenance. With some exceptions the private sector is
not organized to provide this service because of the specialized nature
of most of the equipment. A viable solution is to develop a network of
maintenance centers within research institutions to cover all but the
most sophisticated maintenance and repair problems. This is the
practice in research universities and institutions in the USA.
Eventually these maintenance centers should become self-financing
through charge-back arrangements with the user laboratories.
PADCT I
Under PADCT I this sub-program established an integrated network
of maintenance nuclei, centers and units with the necessary numbers of
trained technicians. The sub-program returned to operational use
equipment with a capital value several orders of magnitude greater than
the costs involved. Under PADCT I, a total of 140 maintenance



78
facilities were established, all in universities, research centers and
hospitals. The centers generally are well managed and providing an
excellent service. The program has served to educate the scientific
community of the need for the provision of adequate maintenance
facilities and budgets to support equipment already on site and new
equipment being purchased. Two fundamental lessons were learned from
the on-going project: the need to provide the equipment and training to
re-calibrate instruments which have been repaired and the necessity to
place an emphasis on the maintenance of specific families of high-cost
high-technology equipment. Both of these lessons are to be addressed in
the second phase of PADCT.
PADCT I Oblectives and Strategies
PADCT II continues vith the objectives of PADCT: to have a minimum
of 14 nuclei, 21 centers and 87 units established by 1994. The
completed network will comprise 15 nuclei, 25 centers and 100 units.
The emphasis of this sub-program under PADCT IT will be on human
'-esource development through on-the-job training and specific courses on
the aspects of repair and maintenance of different types of equipment.
This is of particular importance because of the wide variety of
equipment encoantered within university facilities.
I.    Strengthen existtng maintenance structures
A.    Encourage the allocation of resources for equipment
maintenance in the overall budget of the institutions
B.    Encourage the charging of fees for services rendered to
allow for self-financed maintenance structures
C.    Finance the hiring of qualified personnel for fixed terms,
as long as the institutions commit themselves to absorbing
the workers
D.    Encourage maintenance structures to play a role in the
acquisition of equipment within their jurisdiction
1I.   Support the emergence of new maintenance structures
A.    Give institutional support to emerging maintenance
structures in teaching, research, and development
institutions
B.    Help Institutions to obtain technical assistance to resolve
internal maintenance problems
C.   Extend support to a maintenance system of at least 14
complexes, 21 centers, and 87 units located throughout the
country



79
III. Promote the development of an integrated service to maintain sets
of equipments of high cost and high technological content
A.    Identify equipment sets not yet catalogued during PADCT I
B.    Restore and, vhenever necessary, update equipment sets
already identified during PADCT I
C.    Assure the importation of parts and sets of technological
equipment not yet available in the country
D.    Encourage the ezisting matntenance structures to stress high
competence and broad coverage
D.    Encourage the emergence of dedicated, specialized
maintenance structures
IV.   Support human resource development
A.    Encourage the use of existing programs in traditional
training agencies to give personnel the technical and
management skills needed to handle maintenance problems
S.    Promote relevant seminars, courses, internships, visits, and
the like
C.   Encourage the involvement of maintenance technicians in the
delivery of services by contractors
V.   Link the maintenance structures in an operational network
A.   Encourage the organization of competencies catalogues by
maintenance structure
B.    Support the publication and distributlnn of newsletters
advertising the availability of services, manuals,
practices, and the like
C.    Encourage the organization of seminars or symposiums
D.    Support the delivery of complementary services by
contractors
E.    Promote cost accounting of delivery services



80
Budget by Oblectives                                     aft
I.    Strengthen existing maintenance structures                 9.3
II.   Support the emergence of new maintenance structures        6.9
III.  Development of an integrated service                       1.5
IV.   Support human resource development                         3.0
V.    Network the maintenance structures                         0.3
21.0
(3~*)



81
TeM2s of Reference for a teort on
Issues, Problems and Policies in Scisc  and Tochnolotv
Background
Brazil has developed an extensive system of promoting scientific
research and technology development coverfing most sectors of the economy.
However, despite considerable public spending, the results may not be entirely
satisfactory. Questions may be asked about the cost effectiveness of public
spending. R&D spending by private sector firms remains very low and it is
generally recognized that BrazilLan industry suffers from poor quality, low
productivity, and outdated technology.
As part of the new Government's efforts to promote a less-regulated
economy which is more outward-looking, competitive, productive, and
technologically modern, the Government of Sraxil needs to investigate how its
science and technology system is operating and what alternatives are available
to increase the economic returns on public spending In this are, and to more
effectively promote private investment in Rb and productivlty enhancement.
The following are questions and Issues of key lqportance which could be
studied in preparation of undertaking major refor*s in institutions and/or
policies. Wherever possible the report would answer these questions and
propose government policy. In some cases government policy has already been
formulated and the paper would explain and justify the steps taken to date.
Where answers are not forthcoming, the report would identify an agenda for
research and further policy analysis.
Key Issues and Policies
(a) What is the long term role of science and technology (S&T) in
Brazil's economic development? HcYv much and on the basis of what criteria
should the Brazilian government be investing in S&t? What are the appropriate
shares of Government and the private sector? Should Governoent spending in
the medium term be held relatively constant as a percentage of GNP and major
efforts made to increase the prLvate sector rnte? What is the absorptive
capacity of the system in terms of increased spending?
(b)   What are the gains and losses of reducing or consolidating the
number of funding agencies? How should the Government reorganize these
agencies, especially CNPq, FINEP, MNMETD,, and IBICT? Now should SCT be
organized to focus on policy and coordination? What kind of coordinating role
should SCT have with regard to other governAent research agencies and with
regard to governmental decisions with scLence and technology implications?
1 The Government of Brazil is currently preparing more detailed terms ef
reference and a work plan based on the the generic questions and issues
described in this annex.



82
What is the long term role of PADCT in the science funding system? What
budget procedures could assure greater consistency in S&T spending undertaken
by the various ministries?
(c) What are the respective long term roles of the statis and the
federal government in supporting S&T? How can guidance and assistance be
provided to the newly established state agencies?
(d) What role should the private sector and its needs have in
determining the allocation of research spending? What specific mechanisms
should be established and/or strengthe~ned to ensure private sector
participation in setting research strategies?
(e) What is the proper balance of directed and non-directed programs?
Is the peer review system working adequately and should it be extended? Is
there enough room for innovative ideas?
(f) What specific measures should be taken to support centers of
excellence and to avoid fragmentation of resources? What measures should be
taken to strengthen emerging centers? To what -.xtent should regional
development goals play a role in allocation of resources? How can
institutions be encouraged to cooperate, so as to help ensure a critical mass
of researchers and students and to maximize the use of expensive equipment?
What mechanism should be used to encourage the closing down of low quality,
low demand graduate programs?
(g) How should future investment needs be identified? What urgent needs
have already been identified? How should new investment funds be applied?
(h) What are the successes and failures in the various publicly funding
research institutes and centers? Are there discernable patterns which explain
why some centers are been more or less successful? How can these centers
become more responsive -oo the private sector? Should some centers be
privatized or closed?
(i) What is the relationship between science research and general higher
education? Can science research be insulated from the current fi.scal and
leadership crisis in public higher education? To what extent does science
research strengthen higher education?
(j) What has been the impact of science and technology research on the
labor market, on regional development, and on the environment? To what extent
can and should science research be directed towards strengthening these areas?
(k) How and under what conditions could long term support of
*associated las.oratories' protect research efforts from these problems? How
would these li.ooratories relate to the universities, to other research
institutes, and to industry? How would support be channeled to them? To what
extent would they be compatible with current funding methods and programs?
What criteria would be used for their selection? What role would the
scientific and business community have in their selection? Have any critical
areas already been identified?
(1) How does the relatively low level of educational attainment of
Brazil's work-force affect industrial innovation? What are the strengths and



83
weaknesses of the present systems and organizations providing in-service
training (e.g., SENAI, SENAC, etc.) What about middle and high level
management training in areas such as quality control, standardization etc.?
What role can the government, the education system, and the R&D centers play
in improving the quality of and access to "in-service' training of management
and labor?
(m) How can public support for technology development be made aore
responsive to the needs of th-_ productive sectors of the economy? How can
Government link the level of its support to the level of private funding of
individual R&D centers? What methods should be used to determine the degree
of public cost-sharing of technology development which has potential
commercial value? What are the appropriate models for
government/industryluniversity collaboration in establishing science parks and
other mechanisms such as "incubators' to support development of new
technologies?
(n)   Does the private sector face financing problems in R&D
substantially different from those for investment in general? Should the
Government financially subsidize private sector R&D, and if so, how and in
what degree? What are the costs and benefits of using fiscal/tax incentives,
directed credit lines, or public equity participation in R&D joint ventures?
Is there a need to restructure capital market regulations to promote more
appropriate financial instruments?
(o) What features of the trade regime and regulatory framework continue
to adversely affect private investment in R&D, and what are the implications
of various scenarios of the evolution of the trade regime and the regulatory
framework in terms of the development of private R&D? What additional
constraints may arise? Will res:rictions on technology transfer constrain
innovation? Will lack of adequate regulations on trade secrets and
intellectual property also prove to be a constraint? To what extent is a lack
of basic industrial technology   frastructure a constraint?  Is more research
needed on the practices and attitudes of firms?
Processes. Timinx and Costs
The report would be a product of a small group of high level economists,
scientists, engineers, and management experts contracted by the office of the
Secretary of Science and Technology. An advisory group of distinguished
scientists (some from the GEA), engineers, economists, industrialists  and
others, inicluding representatives from outside Brazil, would be established.
Where necessary special studies would be commissioned to examine in greater
depth issues of importance. The PADCT sub-program proposals would be an
important source of information for the paper. Furthermore the Grupos
Tecnicos (GTs), especially in the areas of Science Policy and Management and
of Basic Industrial Technology, would be consulted. These studies would not
be designed to generate new data since they would need to be completed
rapidly. High level foreign consultants would be invited to discuss specific
issues. Successive drafts of the report would be reviewed by a the advisory
group and by government officials in other ministries. The final report
would be about sixty pages in length and would be completed six months after
loan signing. The cost is estimated at about US$500,000. A subsequent stage
would look in further detail into identified problems.
(4-4)



84
ANNEX 5
Terms of Reference for a Commission Rel,ort on
Industrial Productivity in Brazil
Made in Brazil"
Purpose
The Government of Brazil has begun a fundamental reorientation
in economic policy which is aimed at making the economy more outward oriented
and competitive in wor'.4 markets while reducing the role of the public sector
both as a producer and manager of microeconomic decisions.   In addition to
changes in government policy itself, a successful transition to a more
competitive industrial sector witl require changes in behavioral patterns of
firms; relations between management and employees; relationships between the
productive sector, government, education, and the science and technology
community.
The Commission would contribute to an understanding of these
issues by undertaking a broad investigation of industrial productivity and the
technological situation currently in Brazil. In particular, the Commission would
attempt to isolate the most important factors explaining the present quality,
technological, and productivity weaknesses in Brazilian industry, including the
effects of trade policy and the regulatory framework and make recommendations
for change directed to all relevant groups -- management, labor, education,
researchers, and government.
The results of the Commission's study would be expected to have
a substantial impact on corporate strategic planning especially in the areas of
research and development and technology adaptation, government policy in science
and technology, program direction and linkages with the productive sectors in
Brazilian research centers, and on the science and engineering curriculum in the
education sector.
Method
The Commission's approach and methodology could be patterned on
that adopted by MIT's Commission on industrial productivity which produced the
recent book Made in America. It would assess the strengths and weaknesses of
Brazilian industry by comparing the experiences of the most successful firms with
others in a number of industrial sectors.   The investigation would include
corporate strategies, relations with labor, quality of human capital and
training, linkages between the productive sectors and the education and science
communities and institutions, and the role of government policy and institutions.
In addition, the Commission would examine relevant differences
between the situation in Brazil and in other countries which have been more
successful in achieving technological progress and productivity gains. This is
important not only for the direct insights it could provide, but also because
1 The Government of Brazil is currently preparing more detailed terms of
reference based on the issues and processes outlined in this annex.



85
these countries will be among Brazil's most challenging competitors in the
future.
The results of the Commission's work would be summarized in a
final report suitable for publication and distribution to a wide audience of
Brazilian society.
Membership
The membership of the Commission would be composed of a cross-
section of qualified persons from various segments of Brazilian society,
including representatives of management, labor, education, and research and
development. Since its approach would be multi-disciplinary, its members would
include economists, scientists, engineers, management scientists, and educators.
The Commission members, with the exception of its Executive
Director, would participate part-time. They would be collectively responsible
for organizing, directing, and reviewing the work of the full-time staff. They
would be responsible deliberating on the main conclusions and agreeing to reports
issued on the Commission's behalf.
Staff
The major research, investigation, and drafting of the Commission
reports would be the responsibility of a small, full-time professional staff.
The staff would be led by an Executive Director who would also be a full member
of the Commission. The staff would be composed of 3-4 senior professionals with
proven research experience in economics, engineering, and management, 8-10 junior
professionals, and associated support staff.
The full-time staff work out of a single office complex which
could be located in a university or research center.
TL--"&
The study vould take approximately 18 months to complete. The
first phase, which would take 3 months or less, would involve appointing the
Commission, hiring the full-time staff, securing office space, and deciding on
detailed terms of reference and the study's coverage and research strategy. The
second phase, taking 10-12 months, would include undertaking the required
individual surveys and studying. The second phase would cover, inter alia, the
sub-sector studies, cross-country comparisons, relationships between the major
communities (! ., business, government, education, labor, research, etc.). The
third phase would include the Commission's deliberations on the major conclusions
and the preparation of the final report.
Costs
The total cost of the study is estimated at US$1.7 million.



86
AgmEX 6
Criteria for Annual Renorts and Reviews
of Sector and ProAect Financint
Annual Report on Sources and Uses of Science and Technology Funds
The SCT will prepare and send to the Bank by May 30 of each year of
project implementation a report on the financing of science and technology
research in Brazil. The report will have the following contentt
Data. The report will provide tables which summarize the
sources and uses of federal government funds for S&T. The
tables will include allocations and expenditures by government
agency and program for previous year, present year, and
following year, with percentage changes by agency and program.
To the extent possible, estimates will also be made of financing
by science and technology area (e.g., agriculture, new
materials, physics) and by type of expenditure (e.g., training,
equipment, information services). Similar estimates will be
made of state governtment financing of S&T. To the extent
possible, estimates will also be made of private sector
investment in R&D. Each year SCT will make efforts to improve
the quality and reliability of its financing estimates. In
particular, SCT will develop a system for regular gathering of
data on private sector and state level expenditures in S&T.
Text. A short written report will provide an explanation of
policies and decisions underlying the trends in financing, as
well as the implications for long term development of science
and technology. The report will specifically discuss any major
planned changes (increases or decreases) in S&T funding.
Annual Review of PADCT Funding
The Government will also prepare and send to the Bank by Hay 30 of
each year of project implementation a detailed accounting of PADCT funding
and expenditures during the previous year, present year and following year,
for both loan and counterpart funds. Act"al counterpart funding provided
will be calculated separately in dollar terms on the basis of the
cruzeiroldollar exchange rate at the time of payment to researchers. An
estimate on the basis of a small sample will be made of dollar costs based
on the date of expenditure by researchers. The report will provide details
on funding and expenditures by sub-program as well as an explanation of any
shortfalls in projected project expenditures, especially in the provision
of counterpart funds. In addition, if major reductions in basic science
funding programs are being implemented or are envisioned (e.g., reductions
in funding for FNDCT or for CAPES), or if major new financing is to be
implemented (e.g., possible Japanese or IDB funding), then the report will
explicitly make recommendations for changes in the objectives of PADCT in
order to ensure balanced development of the sector.



87
ANNEX 7
Mid-term Renort and Review of Proiect Imn1ementation
Timing and Procedures
Two years after loan signing, or after 602 of loan funda are
committed, which come; first, the Beak and the Government will jointly
review the following questions and issues. Prior to the mid-term review,
the Government will prepare a draft report covering the issues described
below. This report will be sent the members of the GEL prior to one of its
meetings. The GEA will specifically review and comment on the report and
will also add its own observations and recommendations. No less than one
month before the mid-term review, the Government will send to the Bank its
report as well as the report of the GEA.
Content of Hid-Term Retort
The report will cover the following issues and questionst
(a) Extent to which overall commitments, disbursements and
counterpart funding are in accordance with the forecasts made at
the time of negotiations, discussions of any shortfall, and
proposals for remedying any inadequacies in procedures leading
to shortfalls.
(b) Review of commitments, disbursements, and counterpart
funding on an individual sub-program basis.
cc) Interim review of quality and relevance to long term
econoumic development of completed research under PADCT I and II.
This review will be prepared under the auspices of the Science
Planning and Management sub-program. It will include
quantitative outputs, such as research completed, papers
written, citations, students trained, and qualitative judgments,
especially through identifying successful research of potential
major economic importance. The GEA will also specifically
examine this issue during its meeting prior to thb mid-term
review.
(d) Review of PADCT procedures, that is, the extent to which
guidelines are being followed and continue to be appropriate.
Review of any major problems such as alleged conflicts of
interest in awards, inadequacy of agency procedures, problems
with FESA or with importation, poor management by implementing
agencies or by researchers, etc. Review of extent to which
experiment of opening up editais to non-solicited proposals is
working. Review of extent to which guidelines on minimum and
average size and duration of awards are appropriate. Review of
independence of GT's and of appropriateness of composition of
GT's--by educational level, region, whether industry or
university, whether science, engineering, economics, or other
disciplines. Review of adequacy of coordination among PADCT



88
sub-programs and with other non-PADCT programs, especially
between environment and biotechnology, geolcgy and other Bank
supported environment projects; biotechnology and agriculture;
science education and other science sub-programs; and science
information and the information centers in the basic industrial
technology sub-program.
(e) Review of PADCT supported attempts at industry/university
collaboration. Extent of co-financing by industry of research
projects. Progress to date and proposed new initiatives.
(f) Review of efforts at cost recovery and cost sharing in the
maintenance, consumables, basie industrial technology, and
science information sub-programs.
Results of Review
On the basis of the review of the above issues, the Government shalls
(a) modify PADCT operational guidelines as appropriate;
(b) modify sub-program objectives and strategy as appropriate;
and
(c) reallocate funds across sub-programs as appropriate.
Review of Conclusions of the Policy Study and the Study on Industrial
Productivitv
It is expected that the policy study will be completed about a year
before the mid-term review. During the mid-term review, the Bank and the
Government will jointly review the results of policies and programs
implemented on the basis of the Study. The review will focus on changes in
public management of the science sector and of the effects of Government
policies on technological innovation in the productive sector.
It is also expectcd that the productivity study will be completed
prior to the mid-term review and that the Government will have informed the
Bank of any actions it will take based on the Report's conclusions. During
the mid-term review, therefore, the Bank and the Government will jointly
review the conclusions of the productivity study and the Government actions
in relation to future investment, both public and private, in S&T. If the
Report has not been completed by the time of the mid-term review, then the
Bank and the Borrower will jointly agree on a new timetable for its
completion and for the review of its conclusions.
(--n)



89
ANNEX 8
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
I.    Documents Related to the Sector
A.    Government of Brazil, "Apoio a Capacitagao Tecnol6gica da Ind6stria",
August 3990.
B.    CAPES, Brazil, 'Plano de Metas para a Forma9ao de Recursos Humanos
e Desenvolvimento Cientifico e Tecuol6gico 1987-89," - -liminary
version, !98?.
C.    Mansfield,  E.,  'Protection of Intellectual Property Rights in
Developing Countries," mimeo, 1988.
D.    SRI International/Science wrd Technology Program.  New Directions
for U.S.-Latin American Cooperation in Science and Technology,
Technical Note STPP-TN-3164-4, 1988.
E.    CNPq, CiOncia e Tecnologia, Recursos do Tesouro da Uniao: Dotagao
inicial, Dotagao Final, e Despesa Realizada 1980-89. May 1989.
II. Documents Related to the Proiect
A.    0PADCT% Documento Bisico"  (Brasilia, August 1990)--the overall
planning document for PADCT II.
B.    "PADCTs Manual Operativo" (Brasilia, August, 1990)--the opqrations
manual for PADCT TT, comprising of a summary volume and one annex.
C.   PADCT Subprogram proposals.
1.    Research Subprograms
a.    Biotechnology (June 1990)
b.    Chemistry and Chemical Engineering (June 1990)
c.    Geosciences and Mineral Technology (December 89)
d.    Instrumentation (December 89)
e.    Environment (September 89)
f.    New Materials (November 89)
2.    Support Subprograms
a.    Science Planning and Management (November 89)
b.    Science Education (December 1989)
c.    Basic Industrial Technology (July 1990)
d.    Science Information (June 1990)
e.    Consumables (August 1990)
f.    Maintenance and Repair Services (November 89)



9o
D.    Report of the Sixth Meeting of the Review and Advisory Group (GEA).
E.    Consultant Reports.
1.    Analise da Proposta do Sub-Componente de Informarao do Sub-
Programa de Tecnologia Industrial BEsica.
2.    Analyses of the Subprogram Science Information.
rum.s



91
TABLE 1
BRAZIL
PADCT Is Cost Breakdown by Subvroxram
(In US$ million)
----------------------------------------------------------------__--------
Initial Allocation       Final Allocation
Subprogram             Local Foreign  Total    Local Foreign  Total
Biotechnology           17.7    13.5   31.2       15.7    12.0   27.6
Chemistry and Chemical   25.5    17.7   43.2      23.3    16.2   39.5
Engineering
Grosciences and Mineral  18.9    12.3   31.2      15.9    10.4   26.3
Technology
Instrumentation         19.4      4.6   24.0      18.9      4.3   23.3
Science Planning and     4.0      1.4    5.4       1.3      0.5    1.8
Management
Science Education       15.0      1.8   16.8      17.1      2.1   19.1
Science Information      2.4      1.0    3.4       0.8      0.4    1.2
Consumaoles              0.6      4.4    5.0       1.2      8.9   10.1
Maintenance               7.5     4.1   11.6       6.0      3.3    9.3
Basic Industrial        26.6    11.5   38.1       21.4      9.3   30.6
Technology
Suibtotals       137.6    72.3  209.s    128.1    67.3  195.4
Administration            4.6     0.7    5.3       4.6      0.7    5.3
Totals        i42.2    73.0  215.2    13_2.      68.0  200.5
…----__-----------------------------------------------------------__-----



92
TABLE 2
ERAZIL
PADCT I: Allocations and Disbursements by Subgroaram
(in US$ millions)
Allocation              Disbursela
Subprogram                     Initial  Final         Amount         2/b
Biotechnology                     11.3   12.0           6.6          55
Chemistr" T Clhemical Engineering  14.9   16.2         11.2          69
Geoscien_W_..; & Mineral Technology  10.3   10.4        4.1          40
Instrumentation                    3.9    4.5           2.0          45
Science Planning and Management    1.2    0.5           0.3          70
Science Education                  1.5    2.1           1.3          65
Science Information                0.8    0.4           0.3          99
Consumables                        3.9    8.9           4.6          52
Maintenance & Repair Services      3.4    3.3           0.8          24
Basic Industrial Technology        9.7    9.3           4.2          45
Subtotals   60.9   67.3          35.5          532
Administration                     4.7    4.7           4.3          911
Uhallocated                        0.4       -            -
CESA Deposit                       1.0       -          0.7
FESA Deposit                       5.0       -          8.0
Totals   72.0   72.0          48.5          67Z
…_________________________--_______________________--_____________________
la As of June 8, 1990.
/b Percentage of subprogram final allocation.



93
TABLE 3.1
BRAZIL
Science Research and Training Proaram (PADCT I)
Local Costs (Base plus Imortation Expenses) and Foreign Costs by SubDroaram
(In US$ million)
Local Currenc7
Base   ImportatiQn  Foreign
Subprogram                          Costs   Expenses * Currency  Total
(a) Research Subprograms
-Biotechnology                       39.8        5.8       34.4    80.0
-Chemistry and Chemical Engineering   62.3       5.7       40.8   108.8
-Geosciences and Mineral Technology  48.0        3.4       24.0    75.4
-Instrumentation                     26.0        2.0        9.6    37.6
-Environment                         19.8        1.2        8.4    29.4
-New Materials                       23.6        6.0       42.4    72.0
(b) Support Subprograms
-Science Planning and Management      6.6        0.0        3.0     9.6
-Science Education                   32.9        1.3        9.8    44.0
-Science Information                 11.5        0.1        0.8    12.4
-Consumables                          8.1        0.7        4.8    13.6
-Maintenance                         18.0        0.4        3.0    21.4
-Basic Industrial Technology         45.0        3.6       24.2    72.8
Subtotals     341.6       30.2      205.2   577.0
-Studies                              1.9        0.0        0.3     2.2
-Administration                      19.8        0.0        1.0    20.8
Totals     363.3       30.2      206.5   600.0
-----------------------------------------------------------------__--------
Imoortation exoenses include costs of freight and insurance to port of
entry in Brazil, storage fees, dispatcher fees, and merchandise unloading
fees.



94
TABLE 3.2
BRAZIL
Science Research and TraininQ Proaram (PADCT II1
Cost Breakdown by Investment Area and Subprogram
(In US$ million)
Human    Infra-Ia
Subprogram                           R&D    Res.   Structure  Misc./b  Total
(a) Research Subprograms
Biotechnology                       68.0    10.0        1.0      1.0      80.0
Chemistry and Chemical Engineering 60.1    36.7        12.0      0.0     108.8
Geosciences and Mineral Technology 62.1       7.9       3.8      1.6      75.4
Instrumentation                     32.5      1.0       3.6      0.5      37.6
Environment                         14.2    14.1        0.0      1.1      29.4
New Materials                       19.6      0.0      50.2      2.2      72.0
(b) Support Subprograms
Science Planning and Management      5.8      2.6       1.2      0.0       9.6
Science Education                    7.6    33.3        1.8     1.3       44.0
Science Information                  0.0      1.9      10.3     0.2       12.4
Consumables                          0.0      0.3      12.9      0.4      13.6
Maintenance                          0.0      6.7      14.7      0.0      21.4
Basic Industrial Technology          0.0    15.2       54.5      3.1      72.8
Subprogram Totals   269.9   129.7      166.0    11.4      577.0
la Equipment, materials, and minor civil works.
lb Studies, subprogram monitoring and evaluation, and seminars.



95
TABLE 3.3
BRAZIL
Science Research and Training Proaram (PADCT II)
Cost Breakdown by Expenditure Category and SubDroaram
(In US$ million)
----------------------------------------------------------------__---------
Civil       Train- Consul-  Rsch.
Subprogram                       Works Goods  ing  tants Expenses Total
(a) Research Subprograms
Biotechnology                     0.0  36.5  14.2   6.6   22.7   80.0
Chemistry and Chemical Engineering 0.0  63.8   8.5  10.9   25.6  108.8
Geosciences and Mineral Technology 1.6  36.6   8.2   2.2   26.8   75.4
Instrumentation                   0.0  20.7   0.9   1.5   14.5   37.6
Eavironment                       1.2   6.0   8.0   2.0   12.2   29.4
New Materials                     2.7  47.5           8.8   13.0   72.0
(b) Support Subprograms
Science Planning and Management   0.2   1.2   3.5   1.4    3.3    9.6
Science Education                 0.1   9.0  18.5   5.5   10.9   44.0
Science Information               0.0   7.9   1.7   0.2    2.6   12.4
Consumables                       0.4   5.9   0.3   0.03   7.0   13.6
Maintenance                       0.0   4.8   3.7   2.0   10.9   21.4
Basic Industrial Technology       0.0  30.9  11.2   6.2   24.5   72.8
SubDroaram Totals  6.2 270.8  78.7  47.3  174.0  577.0



96
TABLE 4
BRAZIL
Science Research and TraininQ Prolect (PADCT 1I)
Loan Disbursement Schedule
(In US$ million)
Quarterly  Cumulative  Cumulative
Bank PY   Quarter Ending Date        Amount      Amount          X
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-
1991     March 31, 1991                18*         18          12
Jun- 30, 1991                 5          23          15
1992      September 30, 1991           11          34          23
December 31, 1991            12          46          31
March 31, 1992               12          58          39
June 30, 1992                12          70          47
1993      September 30, 1992           12          82          55
December 31, 1992            11          93          *2
March 31, 1993                10        103          69
June 30, 1993                 9         112          75
1994      September 30, 1993            8         120          80
December 31, 1993             7         127          85
March 31, 1994                6         133          89
June 30, 1994                 5         138          92
1995      September 30, 1994            4         142          95
December 31, 1994             3         145          97
Match 31, 1995                2         147          98
June 30, 1995                 1         148          99
1996     September 30, 1995             X         149          99
December 31, 1995             1         1S0         100Z
-------------_--_- _________________--______-_____
* US$12 million deposited in the FESA and US$ 6 million deposited in the
CESA.



:4BL3 5
BRAZIL
Science Research and Training Program (PADCT II)
Potential Beneficiaries
…---------------------------------------------------------------_O--____--_____----------------------__--
Under- Primary & Secondary Mgrs.&
Rsch.  Scien-  Grad.  Grad.  --------------------  Tech-
Subprogram                          Univ.  Inst.  tists   Stud.  Stud.  Students Teachers niciana
Biotechnology                          30      20    450  1,200  2,300                          S0
Chemistry and Chemical Engineering     40       5    500  1,900  8,000                          70
Geosciences and Mineral Technology     30       4    270    600  2,000                         155
Instrumentation                        20      10     85      85    680                         20
Environment                            10       6     75    305    120                         106
New Materials                          40      10    450    150 -   600                         20       a
Science Planning and Management         8             60    11S    200
Science Education                      60                  1,210  2,600 5,400,000 135,000
Science Information                    30      20    160    600    800                         100
Consumables                            40       5            155  8,400
Maintenance                            47       3                                              800
Basic Industrial Yechnology            30      38    375    323                              6,000
Total       la      /b  2,425  6,643 25,700 S,400,000 135,000  7,321
…-------------------------------------------------------------- __------------ __--- _-------------- _-- _-
la Sum does not apply because often a university will participate in more than one subprogram; the actual
number of participating universities is estimated as 60.
lb Same as (a) above; the actual number of participating research institutes is estimated as 80.



98
TABLE 6
BRAZIL
Science Research and Training Proiect
Expected Commitments. Expenditures and Disbursements
(in USS millions)
---------------------------------------------------------------__---------
Calendar  Amounts Committed   Amounts Expendedl   Amounts Disbursed2
Year    Annual Cumulative   Annual Cumulative    Annual 'umulative
1991      140      140          56       56          46       46
1992      130      270          94      150          47       93
1993       30      300          79      229          34      127
1994                            49      278          18      145
1995                            22      300           5      150
1 Assumes amounts committed in 1991 and 1992 are expended as follows:
year 1, 402; year 2, 30X;, year 3, 202; year 4, 10?. Amounts
committed        in 1993 are expended as follows: year 1, 402; year 2, 30Z;
year 3, 30?.
2 Assumes amounts disbursed as follows: 1991 - Special Accounts plus
50o of expenditures (with slight delay betwreen expenditures and
disbursements offset by frontloading of imported equipment
purchases, of which 1OOS is financed by the loan); 1992, 502 of
expenditures; 1993 and 1994, aprox. 40?; 1995, 202.



«t~~~ *3   m
4f.1~~ ii
t ~ ~~~~ 66



Chart 2
BRAZIL
Science Research and Training Project
Decision Making Process
…---------------------------------------------------- -------- __._________-_______________________________
Stage                   Activity                                     Decision Maker          Time Frame
…-----------.-------------------------------------------------------__-------__----------------------------
1.  Development of      1. Preparation of subprogram plans           Technical Groups (GT)       15 days
Annual Operational  2. Revision & consolidation                 Executive Seeretary (SE)    15 days
Plan                3. Review & recommendation                  Coordinatiny, Committees (CC) 15 days
4. Approval                                 SCT Secretary                7 days
11. Selection of         1. Preparation of editais                   Techn'^: .... Groups (GT)   30 days
Projects            2. Publication of editais                   Executxve Secretary (SE)    15 days
3. Preparation of proposals                 S&T institutions            90 days
4. Classification of submitted progosals    Executing Agencies/b        30 days 8
S. Formation of Advisory Committee1a        GTs and Executing Agencies  30 days
6.  Technical evaluation of proposals       Ad hoc Consultants          30 days
7. Review and selection of proposals        Advisory Committees (CA)    15 days
8.  Preparation & mailing of contracts      Executing Agencies          30 days
9.  Signing & return of contracts           Selected S&T institutions   60 days
III. Implementation of   1. Execution of projects                    Selected SET institutions   2-5 yrs
Projects            2. Monitoring of projects                   Executive Secretary (SE)    2-5 yrs
& Executing AgencLes
IV. Evaluation of       1. Evaluation of projects                    Executing Agencies, CAs,   Semestral
Projects                                                        GTs, SE, Review and       or yearly
Advisory Group (GEA), &
Science Policy subprogram
la Coterminous with 6.
/b CAPES, FINEP, and CNPq.



{VE NE ZU E LA     r?O b             OhRfKNC     i
i 5 i ,~~~SURINAMEMG
C O L O M B I A,.                 ,t V                       /
4~~~:- R>ORAIMA             .;          AAP
A f                             wo       ' s rWPO 
,,-- 1,_. ., iN  O               R "i' 
r~~~  A  M  A  Z  O  N  A  S                                                                  a/  /    
.                             /     ~~~~~~~~~~~P   A    R   A  -   MARANHAO                 71 C' t       E A v
(          7A            j        !CEARA/R4o5bE~~~~~~"DFDO NORTE
AC ii' E  '      . r; Who,st                                             4R,s    ..       .    .     -
P E R U  )   <   3       M  A  T O          i roc^NvINS 5     B ¢~~~P  A U      ;EP
\ t (; E | ; i t l t i tr - W G O ~~~~NI ASI'        ;
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~OATN                                   8,( H I A u ,'RGIPE
'~~~~~~~~~~~~ E4- BRAB  |  A R G                                A S       T        A   
. x @ w /10 tRAoNDE ~~~~DO SUL                                 °                 tura
sAMCbIrA ffice#>e¢steeso>~~~~~~So                    d ot
S -''¢ 'U't e>'\' ~~~~~Ag.PooAULeed°t
.;~~~~~~~~~~AA                                     .                             AN seIKuRi sqO t 0   Ft A9 s9 "*t
*& ~   ~     HIE >   M~-s                                         gxwloOb    tSessi'2o35  
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  R                                                                  mofw c gap"



