Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17267
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SCIENCE RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan 3269-BR)
December 30, 1997
Human Development Sector Management Unit (LCSHD)
Brazil Country Department
Latin America and Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Real (R$)
US$1 = R$1.07 (as of July 1997)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CA            Comite Assessor (Advisory Committee)
CAPES         CoordenaJdo de Aperfei,oamento de Pessoal de Nivel Superior
(Coordinating Agency for Graduate Training)
CIAMB         Sub-programa CienciasAmbientais (Environmental Sciences Subprogram)
CNPq          Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cientifico e Tecnol6gico
(National Council for Scientific and Technological Development)
FAPESP        Funda,do de Apoio ai Pesquisa no Estado de Sdo Paulo
(State of Sao Paulo Science Support Foundation)
FESA          Foreign Exchange Expenditure Special Account
FINEP         Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos (Agency for Financing of S&T Studies and
Projects)
FNDCT         Fundo Nacional para o Desenvolvimento Cientifico e Tecnol6gico
(National Fund for Science and Technology Development)
GEA           Grupo Especial de Acompanhamento (High-level Advisory Group)
GT            Grupo Tecnico (Technical Group)
GTM           Sub-programa Geologia e Tecnologia Mineral
(Geosciences and Mineral Technology Subprogram)
ICT           Sub-programa Informa,do para Cie,ncia e Tecnologia (S&T Information Subprogram)
INMETRO       Instituto Nacional de Metrologia (National Metrology Institute)
IPR           Intellectual Property Rights
MCT           Ministerio da Ciencia e Tecnologia (Ministry of Science and Technology)
MERCOSUL   Mercado Comum do Cone Sul (Southern Cone Common Market)
MIS           Management Information System
OECD          Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PADCT         Programa de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento Cientifico e Tecnol6gico
(Program to Support Scientific and Technological Development)
IPEGQ         Projeto Especial de Gestdo da Qualidade (Special Project for Quality Management)
PGCT          Sub-programa Gestao em Ciencia e Teenologia
(Science Planning and Managment Subprogram)
QEQ           Sub-programna Quimica e Engenharia Quimica
(Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Subprogram)
R&D           Research and Development
RHAE          Programa de Capacita,do de Recursos Humanos para as A tividades Estrategicas
(Training Program for Human Resources in Strategic Activities)
S&T           Science and Technology
SBIO          Sub-programa Biotecnologia (Biotechnology Subprogram)
SINST         Sub-programa Instrumenta,do (Instrumentation Subprogram)
SNM           Sub-programa Novos Materiais (New Materials Subprogram)
SPEC          Subprograma Educa,do para a Ciencia (Science Education Subprogram)
SPIN          Sub-programa Insumos (Consumables Subprogram)
SPM           Sub-programa Manuten,cdo (Maintenance Subprogram)
SRI           Stanford Research Institute
TIB           Sub-programa Tecnologia Industrial Btisica (Basic Industrial Technology Subprogram)
Vice President        Shahid Javed Burki
Director              Gobind T. Nankani
Country Sector Leader  Patricio Millan
Task Manager          Alcyone Saliba



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SCIENCE RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan No. 3269-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface                                                                                   i
Evaluation Summary                                                                       ii
Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment                                                1
A. Project Objectives                                                            2
B. Achievement of Project Objectives                                             3
C. Major Factors Affecting Project Execution                                     9
D. Project Sustainability                                                        12
E. Bank Performance                                                              13
F. Borrower Performance                                                          14
G. Assessment of Outcome                                                         15
H. Future Operations                                                             15
1. Key Lessons Learned                                                          15
J. Qualitative Evaluation of Subprograms                                        17
Part II: Statistical Information                                                        29
Table 1: Summary of Assessments                                                 30
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits                                             31
Table 3: Project Timetable                                                      33
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimates and Actual                    34
Table 5: Selected Indicators of Project Perfonnance                             35
Table 6: Key Studies Funded Under the Project                                   40
Table 7: Project Costs and Financing                                            43
Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits                                            45
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants                                              46
Table 10:Compliance with Bank Policies                                          49
Table 11 :Bank Resources: Staff Inputs and Missions                             50
Table 12:MCT's Budget Execution                                                 52
Table 13:Selected National Indicators of Science and Technology                 53
Appendix: Summary of Borrower Contribution                                               55
A: Comments on Parts I and II                                                        56
B: Supplementary Assessment of Project Performance                                   57
C: Impact Evaluation Using Bibliometric Analysis                                    60
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SCIENCE RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan No. 3269-BR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Brazil Science Research and
Training Project, for which Loan 3269-BR, in the amount of US$150 million equivalent, was
approved on November 29, 1990 and made effective on May 15, 1991.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1996, six years after Board approval and one year
beyond the original closing date of December 31, 1995. Of the original loan amount, US$10
million was canceled on December 29, 1994. Final disbursement took place on April 26, 1997; in
that same month, preparation of this ICR begun.
Tlhe ICR was prepared by Charles Dahan and Dominique Babelon (consultants), under the
supervision of Alcyone Saliba (task manager), from the Human Development Sector Management
Unit (LCSHD) of the Latin America and Caribbean Region. It was reviewed by Alain Colliou
(Lead Specialist, Operations, ESSD/HD). The Borrower contribution is included in the appendix
of this ICR.
TIhe report is based on documents in the project files, including progress reports and ex-
post evaluations prepared by the Borrower, as well as reports from the External Evaluation Group
(GEA) of PADCT II. It also benefited from inputs obtained through interviews with Borrower's
representatives and World Bank staff involved in the project.
o:AIcyone\icr\ftpages.doc



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SCIENCE RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan No. 3269-BR)
Evaluation Summary
ObjFectives and Achievement of Objectives
1.    The main objective of the project (PADCT II) was to strengthen human resource development
in specific science areas through support for science research and graduate training. PADCT II was
also to continue to improve management and decision-making processes which were established under
the previous project (PADCT I) through open competition for research grants, interaction between
government agencies and the scientific community, and greater continuity and integration in the
financing of research projects.
2.    The Project objectives were to be achieved through competitive grants for research and training
in six scientific areas (biotechnology, chemistry and chemical engineering, geo-sciences and mineral
technology, instrumentation, new materials and environrmental sciences); and in six support areas
(priimary and secondary science education, science planning and management, basic industrial
technology, science technology information, provision of consumable, and maintenance of scientific
equipment). It was also to help increase the government's understanding of issues affecting the
management of the publicly-supported system of scientific research, and the environment for
technological innovation in the private sector. To this end, the Project financed two key studies: one on
science and technology policies and another on issues related to the intemational competitiveness of
Brazilian industry. In its debate about needed sectoral policy shifts and in its actual policy formulation
processes, the Borrower has paid attention to the findings of these studies.
3.    PADCT 11 achieved its objectives. With transparency and through open competition for grants,
it contributed to the development of human resources, continuity and stability of research groups, and
the establishment of a sophisticated research, training and technology support infrastructure. The
Project promoted the introduction of new directions in science and technology (S&T) and also opened
the wvay of attracting funding from industry to universities and research institutes. It did not address the
issue of regional disparity in science and technology research capacity, which is still disproportionately
concentrated in the south and southeastern states; this was not, however, one of the stated objectives of
the P'roject.
4.     Likewise, technological development for industry was not among the objectives of PADCT 11.
Nonetheless, the Project did include a number of R&D projects, although the results of these projects
were quite modest. Reasons for such modest performance include: (a) systemic disincentives to industry
participation from the macroeconomic and policy environment; (b) insufficient participation of industry
in the design, planning and execution of projects; and (c) insufficient contribution of industry to the
financing of projects.
5.    The Project contributed significantly to strengthening Brazil's capacity in basic industrial
technological infrastructure; in particular, it helped to overcome serious gaps in the infrastructure of the



iii
National Standards Laboratory system. It has also promoted the voluntary application of quality control.
management in industry. The other support subprograms achieved uneven results.
6.    PADCT II further improved the management structures and funding mechanisms which were
established under the previous project to set policies, competitively select sub-projects, and allocate
scarce public funds for research and development efficiently, fairly and transparently. However, despite
progress, the Management Information (MIS) and the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) systems are
still deficient; this hampered evaluation of project results. The Ministry of Science and Technology
(MCT), which coordinated the Project, has decided to establish such systems at the national level; the
proposed revamped MIS systems would also be used to manage, monitor and evaluate future PADCT
subprojects. To this end, MCT plans to seek technical assistance from national and intemational
institutions.
7.     Poor economic and regulatory environments for technological innovation at the time were
addressed through the preparation of the two previously mentioned studies. These studies recommended
a number of changes in S&T policy, some of which had already been implemented or were under
implementation by the time they were completed. In fact, the need for changes in S&T policies went
through a maturing process within MCT and its agencies during their preparation, which provided
analytical support to the decision-making process. Although study recommendations were discussed in
seminars and workshops, a follow-up action plan was not formally sent to the Bank.
Major Factors Affecting Project Execution
8.     Significant delays occurred in the initial two and a half years of the project, principally due to
lack of counterpart funds and rigidities in the procedures of executing agencies. By June 1993, almost
two and a half years after signing, only US$26.9 million of counterpart funds (or 15% of the total) had
been disbursed, although 53% of total project costs had already been committed to sub-projects. Project
execution sped up from 1994 on and it reached very satisfactory levels after the mid-term review. As a
result, the project successfully closed in December 1996 (the revised closing date), with 100% of all
(counterpart plus loan) funds fully disbursed.
9.    Although the project protected researchers against inflation by denominating grant amounts in
US Dollars, substantial erosion occurred in the early 1990s. Before the adoption of the Piano Real in
1994, inflation exceeded 20% per month. In this context, the value of the allocations to research projects
diminished significantly between the time funds were deposited into the researchers' accounts and the
time they were spent, as researchers were not legally allowed to deposit project funds into interest-
bearing accounts.
10.   Moreover, there were substantial delays between the time projects were approved and the time
contracts were signed and between receipt of requests for payment and deposit of funds into the
researcher's account. There was also excessive involvement of executing agencies in the detailed
management of sub-projects, requiring researchers to consult with them for even minor budgetary
reallocations or simple changes in specifications of equipment to be purchased.
11.   Bank procurement procedures further slowed down implementation. A mismatch between
procurement rules established in the Loan Agreement and the needs of researchers was identified at the
end of 1992. Two years later the Bank agreed to modify the aggregate limit for direct contracting and
raise both the aggregate limit and the upper threshold for international shopping.



iv
Projyect Sustainability
12.   The probability of maintaining project achievements is good for several reasons: (a) the quality
of projects was high and built critical mass within the recipient institutions; (b) the macro-economic
policy framework improved considerably; (c) PADCT has become a regular program of MCT under the
Government multi-annual plan (Plano Plurianual - PPA), with regular budget allocations; and (d)
continuity in funding, so essential in research activities, is ensured through a new, expanded phase of
PAD)CT, which is about to start. The macro-economic and policy environment, a major concern of the
Bank at the time of project design, improved considerably during project implementation: opening of the
trade regime has been maintained, inflation has declined to about one percent per month since July
1994, technology transfer controls have virtually disappeared, laws granting fiscal incentives for
research and development and protecting intellectual property rights were passed, as well as a biosafety
law.. The re-establishment of CCT, a high level inter-ministerial Science and Technology Commission
chaired by Brazil's President, will further help ensure that remaining constraints to technological
development are addressed. There are therefore strong incentives for efficient use by the productive
sector of the research capacity, a highly qualified human resource base, and technological support
infrastructure which were developed under the project. Sustainability may be enhanced if mechanisms
are introduced to ensure that research funding is more responsive to industry's demand. Also, with
respect to laboratory infrastructure, ways should be sought to optimize its use through collaborative
purchases (as was the case under the Chemistry, New Materials, and Geoscience subprograms), by
enhancing career opportunities for high-level specialized technicians, and by ensuring permanent
technological updating through cost recovery mechanisms.
Bank Performance
13.   The focus on human resources development and strengthening of research capacity was
intentional. In the absence of a favorable policy environment, the Bank did not believe that a focus on
technological development through financing of R&D would yield sustainable results. The relatively
mo(lest technological results of the project seem to confirm the view that efforts to promote industrial
R&D are diminished when incentives are not right. However, the Bank could have sooner recognized the
growing trend towards collaborative research which developed under the Project and could have helped
develop mechanisms to increase its responsiveness to industry's needs. Even at the mid-term review, the
Bank decided that private firms would not be eligible and that PADCT would continue to encourage and
support industry-university technical innovation projects only as long as they represented a small
number and a very small portion of total funds. Also, the project design sought to concentrate resources
on a relatively small number of projects, but except for the Chemistry subprogram, there was not much
attention paid on how to reduce the regional imbalance in research funding, or to protect small emerging
groups and young researchers.
14.   Bank supervision was generally satisfactory. However, it was not until mid-term review that the
Baik started to focus on the need for monitoring and evaluation and that bottlenecks in Bank
procurement procedures were addressed. As originally planned, policy dialogue was limited to
discussions on results of extensive studies financed under PADCT II. The most important policy-level
legacy of PADCT II, however, was the incorporation in the design of the follow-up operation, PADCT
III i(also cofinanced by the Bank), of the recommendations of the policy studies executed under the
Project and of the lessons learned during project execution.



v
Borrower Performance
15.   Overall, the performance of the Borrower (the Federal Government) is rated as satisfactory.
The project organization worked well and succeeded in consolidating a science planning system based
on competition, transparency, and evaluation by peers and external specialists. Project management
experimented with collaborative research with industry, and lessons learned from these experiences are
valuable today in shaping MCT's programs in this area. Although with a delay, the planned studies were
carried out and their conclusions were widely debated and disseminated through seminars, workshops
and publications.
16.   The performance of MCT was less satisfactory with respect to the establishment of
Management Information (MIS) and Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) systems. Only now is a system
being established to allow a reliable follow-up of the physical execution of the project and a systematic
evaluation of its results. Also, executing agencies were slow in contracting projects, in approving
procurement requests, in disbursing funds and submitting disbursement requests to the Bank, and in
submitting information on the status of procurement. Their tendency to micro-manage projects also
contributed to a slowdown in disbursements.
Assessment of Outcome and Key Lessons learned
17.   On balance, the project outcome can be rated as satisfactory. The project achieved its major
objectives, the structure and processes of PADCT continue to function well, and project sustainability
is likely. Good experience from PADCT has resulted in: (a) PADCT becoming a permanent program of
MCT; and (b) the Brazilian S&T sector becoming ready to shift the focus from supply of research
capacity to demand for research outputs and qualified research S&T professionals. Key lessons learned
may be summarized as follows: (a) now that the policy framework has become more conducive to
innovation by the productive sector, it is important to increase the likelihood that intermediate products
from research will be applied by the productive sector-- this requires a more demand-driven approach,
in turn requiring a much increased participation by the private sector in setting research priorities,
planning, evaluation and execution of projects, and project financing;    (b) without compromising
research quality, encouragement should be given to the establishment of cooperation agreements
between well established and emerging groups, as well as among groups from more-advanced and less-
advanced regions; (c) collaborative use of sophisticated equipment and cost recovery through user and
service charges should be encouraged to keep technology support infrastructure from rapidly becoming
outdated, and training of high-level technicians and the development of good career prospects for them
should be emphasized; (d) interchanges with foreign centers of excellence should be increased and the
use of international peer reviewers encouraged, the latter now being facilitated through the use of the
Internet; (e) performance indicators and an efficient MIS should be developed to allow efficient
monitoring of project implementation and a thorough assessment of its outputs and impacts; (f)
executing agencies should control the details of the way funds are allocated less through bureaucratic
prior-approval of changes in the allocations and more through ex-post review of financial statements,
technical assessments and visits to research sites; (g) Bank procurement procedures should respond to
the special needs of scientific research projects; and (h) the appointment of independent advisory
groups of prominent national and international professionals provide a valuable contribution to strategy
setting, evaluation of results, and feedback to the Borrower and to the Bank.



1
Part I:
Project Implementation Assessment



2
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
BRAZIL
SCIENCE RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan No. 3269-BR)
A. Project Objectives
1.    The main objective of the project (locally referred to as PADCT II) was to consolidate and
extend the gains in human resource development and institutional reform made under the previous
Science and Technology Project (Loan 2489-BR, subsequently referred to as PADCT I). The project
would strengthen human resource development in specific science areas through support for scientific
research and graduate training. It would continue to seek improved decision-making through: (a) open
competition for research grants; (b) extensive interaction on policy and other matters between
govenmment agencies and the scientific community; and (c) greater continuity and integration in the
financing of research projects. Through preparation of studies and action plans, the project would also
help increase the Borrower's understanding of factors affecting both the management of the publicly-
supported system of scientific research and the environment for technological innovation by firms.
2.    The Project objectives were to be achieved through: (a) competitive grants, for research
subprograms in the four research areas already included under PADCT I (biotechnology, chemistry and
chemical engineering, geo-sciences and mineral technology, and instrumentation) and two new research
areas (new materials and environmental sciences); (b) competitive grants for subprogramns to the six
support areas of PADCT I (primary and secondary science education, science planning and
management, basic industrial technology, science technology information, provision of consumables,
and maintenance of scientific equipment); and (c) the preparation of two studies on science and
technology policies and on issues related to the intemational competitiveness of Brazilian industry.
3.    In the political and economic environment for technological innovation prevalent in Brazil at the
time of project preparation and appraisal, the objectives of this follow-on project were clear and
realistic. Early in 1990, before appraisal, Bank management expressed its concem that a policy
environment discouraging or distorting complementary private investment in applied research and
development (R&D) would limit economic retums to investments in basic science research and training.
The ]3ank initially proposed to include agreements on fundamental reforms in trade and technology
policy under the Project, including removal of trade and technological transfer barriers and improvement
in the protection of intellectual property rights, as a condition for recommending the US$330 million
loan requested at the time. The Govemment, however, was not prepared to accept such a proposal.
When the newly-elected govenmment began to undertake fundamental changes in economic policy, the
Bank eventually agreed to a reduced loan of US$150 million, but to fund activities of a public goods
nature only, and scaled down its demands on policy reform to discussions within the proposed two
studies.
4.    The project did not provide mechanisms to link scientific human resources and research
development with industrial applications. During project preparation, in mid-1989, the (then)
Secretariat of S&T requested that the Bank include a component linking science, technology and
industry. However, due to the prevailing macro-economic instability and poor economic environment
for technological innovation in the private sector at the time, the Bank team did not consider it
appropriate to give support for a credit line for industrial innovation. The Bank proposed instead to
reserve funds, on a pilot basis, in certain sub-programs, to support industrial parks as well as other
forms of industry/university collaboration. In November 1993, when the environment for technological



3
innovation started to improve, the Project's Executive Secretariat again proposed to include mechanisms
to directly finance R&D projects proposed by private firms. This issue was extensively discussed
during the mnid-term review, but since the outcomes of R&D grants to the private sector are not public
goods, the Bank decided that private firms would not be eligible and that PADCT II would continue to
encourage and support industry-university technical innovation projects, on condition that they represent
a small number and a very small portion of total funds.
5.    Finally, the Project did not intend to address the issue of regional disparity in science and
technology research capacity, which is disproportionately concentrated in the more developed states in
the south and southeastern regions of Brazil.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
6     The project has achieved its objectives. With transparency and through competition, it has
contributed to the development of human resources, continuity and stability of research groups, and the
establishment of a sophisticated research, training and technology support infrastructure. It has
promoted the introduction of new directions in S&T and promoted inter-disciplinary approaches. It has
also opened the way to attracting funding from industry to universities.
7.    A total of 1,809 projects were approved under competitive mechanisms; these were
implemented by over 350 institutions. This compares with 900 projects estimated at appraisal for 140
institutions. The average project size (US$168,000) was lower than planned at appraisal
(US$320,000), but significantly higher than under PADCT I (US$70,000), thus achieving a decrease in
the scattering of resources. In all, 78% of projects and 80% of resources went to projects in institutions
from the south and southeastern states of Brazil
8.    No indicators of performance were proposed at appraisal The Executive Secretariat of
PADCT began to carry out a comprehensive evaluation of the Project in 1997, but, at the date of this
report, this evaluation had not been completed. Also, the appendix of this ICR contains the findings of
an impact study that compares the output of PADCT researchers with that of other Brazilian and
foreign scientists. The evaluation in this section of the ICR is based on qualitative evaluations
performed throughout project implementation by the high-level advisory group (GEA) and other
consultants hired to evaluate individual subprograms, results of a survey of 705 projects (39% of the
total number of projects and of funds spent) carried out in 1995, and a review of about 750 responses to
a client satisfaction survey, also performed in 1995.
Human Resources and Research Infrastructure Development Objectives
Human Resource Development and Research Capacity
9.    GEA and other consultants hired in 1996 to evaluate the subprograms concur that basic
research and human resources training financed under the project were relevant and of high quality.
The upgrading of laboratory facilities allowed a number of research groups in each area to perform
sophisticated analyses in accordance to international standards. The project promoted interdisciplinary
approaches and collaboration between research groups. It also contributed to the consolidation of some
centers of excellence.
10.   Quantitative data confirm this assessment. The 1995 survey of 705 projects shows that 78% of
project coordinators were at the doctoral or post-doctoral level. Each project involved an average of 7.4



4
researchers and trained 4.7 students by associating them in research. Each project yielded an average of
four theses and nine publications, over half of which were in intemational joumals. Evaluators have
reported that the reputation of the joumals in which these were published is also an indication of good
quality. On average, the projects have yielded an average of 0.7 publications and theses per researcher
per year (over an average two and half- year period), which compares well with the national average of
0.61 between 1990 and 1995 (National Indicators of Science and Technology). However, the six
sectcral research subprograms show a higher average of 0.8, with the Chemistry subprogram reaching
1.2.1 In terms of publication in joumals, the average productivity of grant dollars was reasonable: On
average, it was about US$19,300 per project and US$25,100 for research sub-programs. These figures
are iln line with US standards.
Technological Development
11.   Although technological development for industry was not among the objectives of the Project, it
included a number of applied research projects (of the sample of 705 projects, 15% were for
technological development, accounting for 26% of resources). In the Geo-sciences sub-program, R&D
projects absorbed 58% of total funding. Also, many basic research projects resulted in the creation of
techlnologies, processes and products. However, few of the sampled projects in the five "mainstream"
research areas (biotechnology, geo-sciences, chemistry, new materials and instrumentation) found their
way into industrial applications: About one third of projects developed products and 18% applied for
pateints, but fewer than 5% developed products that were commercialized and only 6% resulted in
technology transfers. Performance was modest because the economic and regulatory environment and
operational rules of the program and of funding agencies were not conductive to effective industry-
academia interaction. Main reasons were: (a) systemic disincentives to industry participation, including
high inflation and interest rates that discouraged long-term investmnent in R&D; (b) lack of intellectual
property rights protection; (c) bureaucratic procedures and erratic disbursements of counterpart funds
by executing agencies; (d) in the case of FINEP, insistence on royalty sharing on research products as a
concition of lending (counterpart) funds to industry; (e) insufficient participation of industry in the
design, planning and execution of projects, which ignored considerations of economic viability and
lacked a business perspective; and (f) insufficient contribution of industry to the financing (and
execution) of projects.
Support Services
12.   With respect to support subprograms, the project has contributed significantly to strengthening
Brazil's capacity in basic technological infrastructure. In particular, it has helped to overcome serious
gaps in the infrastructure of the National Metrology Laboratory system (in charge of basic metrology
standards) and promoted decentralization of some primary metrology functions and calibration activities
to secondary level laboratories of the Brazilian Calibration Network. It has also promoted the voluntary
application of quality control management in industry through the Quality Management Program
(PEGQ),which has trained 24,000 professionals from public and private organizations, certainly
contributing to the large increase in enterprises certified according to ISO 9000 standards from 18 in
1991 to over 2,000 by mid-1997. Brazil now needs to build upon these investments by increasing
efforts to promote voluntary standardization, testing and certification by firms.
1 Source: 0 Impacto do PADCT na Quimica e Engenharia Quimica, Luiz Antonio Barreto de Castro and
Elianne Prescott.



5
13.    Other support subprograms have had uneven results. The Science Equipment Maintenance
subprogram succeeded in creating a maintenance culture within research institutions, albeit only at an
embrionary stage. Other subprograms, including those aimed at strengthening scientific information
services, science planning and management, and science education, have not had clear benefits. Science
information centers need to re-think their rationale in a world of generalized worldwide low-cost access
to information via the Internet; science planning and management skills must be disseminated among
research institutions and the productive sector, not just remain academic subjects; finally, innovations
m science education tended to develop in isolation from state and municipal authorities and existing test
systems, and were not coordinated with corresponding curriculum development, production of training
materials, and teachers' training.
Institutional Development Objectives
14.   Under PADCT I, management structures and processes were created to set policies, select
subprojects competitively, and allocate scarce public funds for research and development efficiently,
fairly and transparently. The structure included a system to develop calls for proposals (editais) and to
introduce technical policy-setting and planning committees (Groupos Tecnicos - GTs) and sub-projects
evaluation and selection committees (Comite de AvaliaV&o - CAs). Particularly important was the
participation of the scientific community in policy and priority setting through membership in GTs, and
in project evaluation and selection through membership in CAs. The Project was coordinated by the
PADCT Secretariat, which also facilitated the flow of work to the implementing agencies that had the
mandate of channeling funds for science and technology. These agencies included: (a) the Financing
Agency for Studies and Projects (FINEP), a federal agency administering a large national fund for
scientific and technological development and the financial agent of the project; (b) the National Council
for Technological Development (CNPq), a federal agency that formulates broad science and technology
priorities and finances pertinent research and scholarships; and (c) the Coordinating Agency for Higher-
Level Personnel Training (CAPES), which grants scholarships for graduate studies. Despite several
procedural difficulties, the peer review system generated multiple positive benefits and its overall impact
was substantial.
15.   The management structure and processes were further improved during PADCT II, mainly
after the mid-term review:
(a)    The peer review system was improved, towards high quality and complete
transparency: (i) measures were enforced to avoid conflicts of interest of CA members
in a somewhat small scientific community2; (ii) the names of ad-hoc reviewers were
appended to their reports, while they remained anonymous to principal investigators;
and (iii) CA members were paid for their services. This was done to stress the
importance of the review process and encourage them to devote time required for high
quality reviews. While peer review processes existed prior to PADCT in some
Brazilian agencies, such as the Sao Paulo State Agency FAPESP, PADCT contributed
to expanding the use of peer review within the agencies administering PADCT projects,
and in making rules for funding allocation more transparent and uniform in these
agencies. In addition, the project introduced improved procedures for informing the
applicants whose projects were not approved.
2 A number of conflicts of interest occurred during the initial phase of project implementation, when members
of the evaluation teams (CAs) were also members of teams submitting proposals.



6
(b)    The competitive process through calls for proposals (editais) resulted in adequate
competition and high-quality projects. During the period 1990- 1995, 1,616 projects
were selected and supported by PADCT out of a total of 4,872 projects submitted, or
33%, in line with a one-in-three ratio typical of adequately-funded programs in the US
and other OECD countries.
(c)    Project monitoring was improved through periodic site visits of large projects (that is,
those which received grants larger than US$300,000).
(d)   In 1995, the PADCT Executive Secretariat was upgraded to a separate Special
Program Advisory Office, which helped solve a number of managerial and coordination
problems.
(e)   Interaction and integration between the subprograms were improved through frequent
informal meetings of the coordinators of Technical Groups (GTs).
(f)    Benefiting from the advice of the Technical Advisory Committee on Metrology3,
composed of internationally known specialists, the metrology sub-component
substantially contributed to stimulating partnerships in primary metrology,
decentralizing standardization and certification activities, and promoting regional
secondary-level calibration laboratories.
(g)    There has been some progress towards inter-agency cooperation. PADCT, as a
coherent and cohesive program, became a worthy exercise in central S&T policy and
planning, in which each agency had a role to play. However, cooperation among
agencies and their efforts to exert complementary roles through their varied
programmatic structures still needs improvement and their procedures need to be better
adapted to researchers' needs (paragraphs 28 through 31).
(h)    Finally, an important organizational change in the Brazilian S&T system occurred on January
9, 1996, with the creation of the Inter-Ministerial National Council for Science and Technology (CCT)
as a superior advisory body to the President of the Republic, with a broad legal mandate to propose
national S&T policy; coordinate Government plans, goals, and priorities for S&T, including
instruments and resources; evaluate the implementation of S&T policy; and advise on matters related to
S&T development and regulation. CCT is chaired by the President of Republic and its secretariat is
provided by the Ministry of Science and Technology (MCT).
16.   The lessons learned from PADCT I and the early stages of PADCT II prompted the
development of a better Management Information System (MIS) for the Project. The current MIS
allows on-line management of funds, including retrieval of information on procurement activities and on
the content of subprojects. It still lacks the capacity for efficient project management and the
information required for a thorough evaluation of project results.
3The Technical Advisory Committee on Metrology was to be established not later than two months after
effectiveness as a covenant of the Loan Agreement, but was appointed only in June 1992.



7
17.   PADCT has clearly demonstrated the need for establishing an up-to-date national Monitoring
and Evaluation System (M&E). The lack of robust S&T indicators as well as good project data make a
thorough assessment of the outputs and impacts of any project difficult. This was one of the few
essential aspects where performance was below the Bank's and GEA's expectations. To mitigate this
situation, at the end of 1994 the Executive Secretariat introduced an evaluation scheme which involved
electronic data collection from individual projects, based on subprogram workshops with GTs and
grantees, visits and questionnaires. Furthermore, consultants were hired in 1995 and 1996 to prepare
subprogram and project evaluation reports. Unfortunately, as stated by GEA, all these efforts did not
produce the qualitative and quantitative information needed to give an accurate and clear view of the
outputs, outcomes and impacts of PADCT. Only now is such a system being established to allow a
reliable follow-up on an on-going basis of PADCT and a systematic evaluation of its results; this
system (PADCT-NET)4 is accessible on-line via Internet and became operational in August 1997. With
respect to the establishment of a national system of S&T indicators, in June 1994 the Bank sent a
technical mission, including consultants from OECD and SRI, to provide technical assistance to MCT
on S&T monitoring and evaluation, including of the project5. MCT has decided to establish such a
system, into which PADCT-NET will be integrated. To this end, MCT intends to obtain technical
assistance from OECD and similarly experienced institutions.
18.   Finally, it is likely, that funding of some 1,800 projects involving thousands of researchers over
six years, with relatively high productivity and quality, has indirectly resulted in significant
strengthening of their host institutions and their willingness to direct some of their research initiatives
toward the needs of the productive sector.
Policy Reform Objectives
19.   As previously explained, the Project examined the issue of the poor economic and regulatory
environment for technological innovation through the preparation of a science and technology policy
study and a study on issues related to the international competitiveness of Brazilian industry (paragragh.
3). Both studies were completed, although with delays. The S&T policy study involved about 30
consultants, and the international competitiveness study more than 80 consultants. Table 5 of Part II
gives details on the status and implications of these studies.
20.   The studies recommended a number of changes in S&T policy, some of which had already
been implemented or were under implementation by the time they were completed. In fact, the need for
changes in S&T policies went through a maturing process within MCT and its agencies during their
preparation, which provided analytical support to the decision making process. Study recommendations
were discussed in seminars and workshops in which the Bank participated in Sao Paulo in August 1993
and May 1994 (at which universities, government officials and entrepreneurs participated), and again at
a workshop in Annapolis (US) in May 1995 (in which high-level Brazilian policy makers, Bank and
IDB staff and international experts participated). However, an action plan to implement the
recommendations of the studies was not transmitted to the Bank, as expected by the Bank.
4All project coordinators of PADCT II are being requested to enter their project data ex-post in PADCT-NET
to allow an ex-post evaluation of PADCT II and the establishment of baseline data for the next phase of
the program.
5 Specific mission objectives were to: (a) seek information on the status of M&E of S&T in Brazil; (b) review
the role of MCT in this area; (c) identify ways and means to enhance Brazilian capacity in M&E; and (d)
define specific ways to address the problem of M&E of the project.



8
21.   As pointed out by MCT officials, the two aforementioned studies are not of equal quality,
deplih, and data reliability. Nonetheless, they are a valid basis for a global evaluation of Brazil's S&T
system. In addition, MCT undertook two additional studies, upon request by CCT: (a) an "Evaluation
of the S&T Sector", to examine the need for reforms in the S&T system; and (b) a "Prospective
Technological Study on S&T for Global Competitiveness". The information contained in the
international competitiveness study was used as a basis for the design of "technological development
platforms" under the next PADCT, the Brazil Science and Technology Reform Support Project, which
was approved by the Bank's Board on December 18, 1997. The findings of the other sectoral studies
were also closely paid attention to during the appraisal of PADCT III.
22.   A study was contracted in 1992 by the Biotechnology and Chemistry Division of MCT to
develop a sound basis for the preparation of biosafety regulations, taking into account international
experience and the Brazilian context. A new law on Biosafety was enacted in 1995. Under PADCT II,
a Biosafety Consultative Committee was established within MCT to oversee the application of the law
and accredit centers active in molecular biology R&D. Furthennore, all institutions dealing with
biotechnology funded under the projects are required to have an in-house biosafety committee.
Evaluation of Project by Participants
23.   An analysis of about 750 replies to evaluation questionnaires sent in 1995 to all individuals and
institutions on PADCT's mailing list6 confirms GEA's and this report's judgments on project strengths
and weaknesses. Replies suggest a high degree of satisfaction with program output, the degree of
interdisciplinary efforts and institutional design. Replies are mixed with respect to program
methodologies, particularly connections to information networks, subprogram interaction and peer
reviiew procedures (reflecting earlier problems with conflicts of interest and diverging perceptions on
whether to dilute pure merit criteria with regional and equity considerations in project selection).
Performance is rated less satisfactory with respect to international and university-industry cooperation
and program funding procedures, although respondents point to great improvements with respect to
protection against inflation and imports of materials and equipment. Freely-raised concerns focus inter-
alia on the need for a good monitoring and evaluation system used to reward successful projects by
securing their continuity. Finally, in almost all respects, respondents concluded that PADCT II was an
improvement over PADCT I.
Project Costs and Financing Plan
24.   At the end of 1996, at project completion, total project costs amounted to US$318.8 million,
about 6% higher than estimated at appraisal, in spite of the cancellation of US$ 10 million from the loan.
Despite delays in the provision of counterpart funds during the first phase of project implementation,
Government counterpart funds reached US$178.8 million, more than 20% higher than estimated at
appraisal, which more than compensated for the US$10 million canceled from the loan. Except for the
Science Consumables and Reagents subprogram (SPIN), investments under subprograms were in line
with appraisal estimates. The main objective of SPIN was to supply research consumable materials
throughout the country at a time when import difficulties were extreme. This subprogram was
6 An analysis of replies was prepared by Elizabeth Balbachevsky, associate researcher at the Center for
Research on Higher Education, NUPESIUSP.



9
discontinued in 1995 after imports were freed from most bureaucratic difficulties. It received a total of
only US$2.8 million out of an original budget of US$6.8 million.
PADCT within the National S&T System
25.    All MCT programs suffered drastic budget cuts in 1991 and 1992. Only in 1995 they
recovered their 1990 levels. These budgetary shifts were a direct result of the problematic
macroeconomic context of Brazil during those periods. PADCT continues to account for less than 6%
of MCT's total budget, which in turn accounts for about 40% of total federal funding for research.
PADCT's modest impact on the overall availability of public research funds in Brazil is consistent with
its contribution to the overall pool of federal S&T funds.
C. Major Factors Affecting Project Execution
26.   The loan was signed on February 15, 1991 and became effective on May 15, 1991. It was
closed on December 31, 1996, one year after the original closing date of December 31, 1995.
Significant delays occurred in the initial two and a half years of the project, principally due to lack of
counterpart funds and rigidities in procedures practiced by executing agencies.
Factors Under the Control of the Borrower and its Executing Agencies
Counterpart funds
27.   As with other S&T programs of MCT, the project was significantly affected by the drastic
budget cuts which occurred in 1991 and 1992 and part of 1993 as a result of the Collor Plan. By June
1993, almost two and a half years after signing, only US$26.9 million of counterpart funds (or 15% of
the total) had been disbursed, although 53% of total project costs had already been committed to sub-
projects approved under the first two rounds of "editais". Disbursements picked up afterwards,
reaching US$53.5 million by the mid-term review (March 1994), or 30% of total counterpart funds, and
accelerated rapidly afterwards.
Procedures of executing agencies
28.    The effect of lack of counterpart funds for already approved projects was further aggravated by
rigidities in the procedures practiced by intermediary agencies, like FINEP and CNPq. These include
delays in contracting and disbursing, insufficient protection against inflation, and excessive intervention
("micro-management") in details regarding allocation of subproject funds.
29.    PADCT II made substantial progress over PADCT I to protect researchers against inflation by
denominating grant amounts in US dollar (equivalent). However, as the conversion into local currency
was made at the time of quarterly transfers from the funding agency to the research institution,
substantial erosion still occurred as a result of the slow procurement process. With inflation at 400% a
year in 1991 and still between 20% and 25% a month in 1992, it was estimated that an average of 30%
to 50% of the purchasing power of funds was lost over a period of three months. At mid-term review,
the cumulative inflation-derived loss from 1991 to 1993 was estimated at 24% of total counterpart
funds disbursed, or about US$11 million7. Although losses could be made up later through
7By December 1993, disbursement of Government counterpart funds had reached only US$ 47.8 riillion.



10
supplemental agreements and were more than compensated by the increased Government counterpart
funds, timeliness was lost, which considerably affected research outputs. Such lack of timeliness was
the chief complaint among researchers who replied to evaluation questionnaires. Researchers did not
even have the option of protecting the purchasing power of funds received by investing them in interest-
bearing accounts, as federal regulations prohibited researchers from doing so with grant funds. CAPES
and CNPq were also prohibited from doing this. FINEP could, however, hold interest-bearing accounts,
as it is categorized as a financial agent. It was not until mid-term review that an agreement was reached
to designate FINEP as a holder of interest-bearing counterpart funding accounts of all three executing
agencies, despite the fact that, since the beginning of PADCT II, a 2% overhead fee on all funds
transacted was already paid to FINEP for the purpose of, inter-alia, performing effectively its financial
agent function. Once the Plano Real (July 1994) was introduced, inflationary pressures subsided
consiclerably.
30.   There were substantial delays between the time projects were approved and the time contracts
were signed between executing agencies and research institutions, generally 3 to 6 months, although
program rules established an upper limit of one month. Also, there were substantial delays (20 days on
averagye) between receipt of the request for payment and the deposit of funds into the researcher's
account. This was attributed to excessive bureaucracy of executing agencies and some reluctance to
enter into contracts while counterpart funding was not available. Bank disbursements were also very
slow initially, although substantial funds were available in the Special Account. Generally, PADCT
represented a small part of the agencies' portfolio and it was slow in adapting its own procedures to
meet program rules.
31.   There was excessive involvement of the executing agencies in the detailed management of the
subprojects. Federal regulations governing grant agreements (convenios) do not leave much flexibility
to researchers to change the allocation of grant proceeds, as they are required to consult with the
granting agencies and GTs for even minor budgetary reallocations or simple changes in specifications of
purchased equipment. Agencies were slow in responding to researchers' requests. GEA consistently
recommended that executing agencies not control the details of fund allocation, and advocated that these
details should be left to the researchers. GEA also continuously recommended that contracts (rather
than convenios) be signed allocating funding in blocks or installments, with more freedom of
expenditure determination left to researchers; and that agencies perform their oversight through ex-post
review and audits of financial statements, technical reports and site visits. However, no significant
change was made toward this goal during project implementation. Bank procurement procedures further
slowed implementation. All these factors resulted in large time lags between MCT disbursements to
executing agencies and disbursements from executing agencies to beneficiaries, reaching US$21 million
in December 1994, as reported by GEA.
Studies
32.   The execution of the two key sectoral policy studies suffered significant delays. The first study
(Issues and Policies in the S&T Sector) was to be completed within six months from loan signing (or by
mid-August 1991); it was completed only at the end of 1993, two and a half years beyond the original
schedule. Delays in contracting accounted for about only four months: In April 1991, two months after
loan signing, MCT requested the Bank's no-objection to the direct contracting of the Getulio Vargas
Foundation, which the Bank agreed to in June 1991. The second study (Industrial Productivity) was to
be completed by October 30, 1992, but was completed only in 1994, also about two years beyond the
original schedule. This study was contracted in mid- 1992 and financed from MCT's counterpart funds
because consultant selection procedures were judged by the Bank to be inconsistent with Bank



I1
guidelines. In brief, the delays in the execution of these studies were partly due to shortages of
counterpart funds and partly due to lack of expediency in internal procedures practiced by FINEP.
Staffing issues of the National Standards Institute (INMETRO)
33.   Early on during project implementation, GEA raised concern about the insufficient size and
qualification of scientific and technical staff at INMETRO's National Standards Laboratory at Xerem
(CEMCI), poor use of large investments in equipment and repeated managerial changes. According to
GEA, staff would need to increase by a factor of two or three and better salaries paid to retain qualified
personnel. In April 1992, GEA recommended drastic institutional and organizational changes in
CEMCI and the transfer of INMETRO from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Science and
Technology, before more funding would be provided. With Bank support, MCT suspended further
investment approvals. As a result, INMETRO was moved to the Ministry of Industry and Commerce,
and staffing of CEMCI improved through cooperative agreements with other institutions and the
contracting of scientific staff through a project called RH Metrology, which provided fellowships for
scientific personnel from the Training Program for Human Resources in Strategic Activities (Programa
de CapacitaVdo de Recursos Hurnanos para as atividades Estrat6gicas - RHAE) as well as from
scholarships from CAPES. At the mid-term review (March 1994), the Bank concurred that progress
was sufficient to resume commitments.
Factors Under the Control of the Bank
Procurement
34.   A disconnect between procurement rules established in the Loan Agreement and the needs of
researchers was identified by Bank supervision missions at the end of 1992. It proved difficult to
disseminate knowledge of Bank procurement rules to the executing agencies and, through them, to a
large number of decentralized funding institutions. More importantly, upper and aggregate lirnits for
direct contracting, shopping and limited intemational bidding (LIB) were judged too low, forcing
researchers to use LCB procedures which created undue delays and complications. Given that a large
part of scientific equipment was "sui-generis" and detemiined by the nature of the experiment, there
were usually only a very small number of suppliers, or procurement was only possible directly from the
manufacturer. The issue of compatibility and maintenance capabilities further restricted the choice of
suppliers. Eventually, the Bank recognized these arguments and, at mid-term review, agreed to modify
the aggregate limit for direct contracting from US$6.2 million to US$25.0 million; to raise the upper
limit in the threshold for international shopping from US$25,000 to US$ 100,000 and allow the use of
this procedure for up to an aggregate value of US$2 1.0 million; the limit for local shopping, however,
was reduced from US$34.3 million to US$14.0 million. Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement was
amended on September 23, 1994, two years after the problem was first recognized. The Bank granted
additional waivers for international and local shopping procedures, which in aggregate were used for
purchases eventually amounting to US$24.5 million and US$28.6 million, respectively, above the limits
agreed at mid-term review, and corresponding to a total of 37% of the total Loan amount. The Bank
also provided substantial procurement training throughout project implementation.
Cancellation of US$10 million from the loan
35.   On December 21, 1994, at the request of the Federal Government and as part of a
comprehensive restructuring effort of the Bank's portfolio in Brazil, the Bank canceled US$10 million
from the Loan, on grounds of slow disbursements. Upon protest from the Minister of Science and



12
Technology, Loan proceeds allocated to TIB were reduced by only US$5.8 million, with the rest shared
among the Chemistry, Science Education and other subprograms. The Govenmment, however, did make
up for the difference and more, since total project costs were in the end 106% of appraisal estimates,
and, for TIB, total spending reached 96% of the amount estimated at appraisal. In retrospect, this cut
was :not justified, as the main problems with the performance of CEMCI had already been resolved by
the time the decision to cancel was taken and the overall pace of Loan disbursements had already
reached a satisfactory level.
D. Project Sustainability
36.    The probability of maintaining project achievements is high for several reasons: (a) the quality
of projects was high; (b) the policy framework improved considerably; and (c) continuity in funding, so
essential in research activities, is ensured through a new and expanded phase of PADCT. This new
phase of PADCT, which is locally known as PADCT III, includes a US$155 million loan from the
Banlc; total project costs are US$360 million (see Report no. 17178-BR, dated November 26, 1997).
37.   The policy environment, a major concem of the Bank at the time of project design, improved
considerably during project implementation. Opening of the trade regime, which took place over the
period 1990-92, has been essentially maintained. This is believed to lead the productive sector to
increase productivity to maintain competitiveness. Under the Plano Real, inflation has declined to
about one percent per month for most of the period since July 1994, eliminating the bias against long
term investment (hence innovation) by the private sector, and uncertainty, fluctuation and erosion of real
budgets of public research institutions. Technology transfer controls have virtually disappeared. Laws
granting fiscal incentives for research and development were passed in 1991 (computer software) and
1993 (for all sectors). A new law protecting intellectual property rights was passed by Congress in
1996 and a breeders right law in 1997. The re-establishment of CCT will further help ensure that other
important constraints to technological development are addressed. Today there seems to exist strong
incentives for efficient use by the productive sector of the research capacity, highly qualified human
resource base, and technological support infrastructure, all of which were developed under the PADCT
I and II. This process may be accelerated if mechanisms are introduced to ensure that research funding
is more demand-driven; this is planned under PADCT III.
38.    Continuity in funding, which is essential in sustaining research efforts, is being ensured. After
a large drop in budget allocations in 1991 and 1992, these recovered to their previous levels. The
Government is committed to increase substantially funding for the PADCT program and has requested
Bank support for that purpose. Also, the program has helped raise additional funding for projects. In
the new environmental management subprogram, project funds have acted as seed money to attract
additional funding from other sources. This catalytic role will be reinforced in the future through more
systematic links with associated programs and matching funds from the productive sector for joint
projects.
39.   With respect to laboratory infrastructure, ways must be sought to reduce costs by maximizing
its use and to keep it from quickly becoming obsolete in areas of rapidly evolving technology. By
financing a number of consortia for the purchase of high-cost equipment, the project already helped in
that direction. Establishment of cost recovery mechanisms should follow, so that these laboratories as
well as technology support services (metrology, maintenance, information services, etc.) become self-
supporting through sales of services and fees for the use of equipment. Other subprograms, such as the
Total Quality Program, should also become self supporting as soon as adequate momentum has been
achieved. Service laboratories (in particular metrology and maintenance) still suffer from a lack of



13
high-level specialized technicians able to perform sophisticated analyses and maintain complex
equipment. Such technicians tend not to be sufficiently recognized in the public sector and career
prospects for them are limited. Addressing this issue is particularly important to the sustainability of
the metrology outcomes. Again, increased self-sufficiency through service sales should help institutions
offer adequate salaries and career prospects for them.
E. Bank Performance
Project Preparation and Design
40.    The project was essentially designed as a continuation of PADCT I. As pointed out in para. 4,
the focus on human resources development and strengthening of research capacity was intentional. In
the absence of a favorable policy environment, the Bank did not believe that a focus on technological
development through financing of R&D would yield sustainable results, and this position was
maintained until 1995, when the Bank's position started to change after macroeconomic stabilization
occurred under the Plano Real and further trade opening took place due to the Mercosur and other
trade-related agreements.
41.   Although not the focus of the project, the relatively modest technological results seem to
confirm the view that efforts to promote industrial R&D are lost when incentives are not right. High
inflation, high interest rates, and lack of protection of intellectual property certainly contributed to poor
interest shown by industry in the technological outputs of the project, and GEA confirmed this in its
reports. But it appears that the Bank failed to recognize the growing trend towards collaborative
research which developed under the project and did not until late in the process try to identify ways in
which at least this research could become more relevant to the needs of the productive sector. GEA did
so and while, recognizing disincentives to R&D due to the macroeconomic and policy frameworks,
continually advocated increased participation of industry in project planning, increased participation of
industry personnel in executing research projects, and elimination of FINEP's insistence in sharing
royalties on research results. Up to the completion of PADCT II, however, executing agencies
continued to exert excessive influence in determining membership of GTs and CAs, which were
dominated by representatives of the scientific community.
42.   The project design sought to concentrate resources on a smaller number of projects and
institutions to avoid dispersion and create critical mass. There was not much attention paid to how to
reduce the regional imbalance in research funding, or to protect small emerging groups and young
researchers. Initially, procurement rules were not best suited to the needs of researchers. Finally, at
appraisal, the Bank failed to agree with MCT on a set of key indicators to monitor and evaluate project
implementation.
Supervision
43.    Bank supervision was satisfactory, with one to two missions per year complemented by very
frequent (often monthly) short (1-3 days) meetings, in the Bank's headquarters and/or Brazil, between
the Bank's task manager and the Project's Executive Secretary. The frequency of traditional
supervision decreased in 1994 after the mid-term review, as operational matters were continuously
handled in the framework of discussions for the follow-up operation, as well as through several
workshops and seminars. The mid-term review was comprehensive and contributed to the resolution of
the main issues facing the project at the time. The pace of disbursement significantly increased



14
aftenvards. The Bank also maintained close contact with GEA throughout implementation. The quality
and continuity of staff and consultants involved in supervision was very good.
44.   Bank missions paid attention early-on to the need for a good MIS, in particular to monitor flow
of funds and procurement. However, it was not until after mid-term review that technical assistance on
monitoring and evaluation really began. Finally, although supervision missions raised the matter of
inadequate procurement procedures within the Bank as early as the end of 1992, the Bank only acted on
the proposed changes almost two years later.
45.   Policy dialogue was adequate. As planned, it was limited to discussions on the findings and
poterntial implications of the extensive sectoral studies financed under the PADCT II.
F. Borrower Performance
46.   Overall, the performance of the Borrower (the Federal Govermment) was satisfactory. The
objectives of the project were achieved, although with a one-year delay, and counterpart funding
shortages in the initial two and a half years of the project were subsequently more than made up. The
project organization worked well and succeeded in consolidating a science planning system based on
competition and transparency and constant evaluation by peers and external specialists. A dedicated
and competent Executive Secretariat managed to efficiently coordinate all planning steps and bodies
involved in decision making under the project. GTs and CAs performed their functions efficiently, after
a few initial conflict of interest issues were resolved. GEA and the TIB Conmnittee met regularly
throughout the project life and provided valuable contributions to the strategy and evaluation of the
subprograms. The issues related to INMETRO were resolved, though perhaps not permanently.
Finally, project management experimented with collaborative research with industry, and the lessons
learned from these experiences have been valuable in shaping MCT's programs in this area.
47.   The performance of MCT was less satisfactory with respect to the establishment of
Management Infornation and Monitoring and Evaluation systems to allow a reliable follow-up of the
physical execution of the project and a systematic evaluation of its results. This was due in part to the
apparent inability of MCT to enforce obligations on executing agencies, which took few concrete
measures to adapt their record keeping and monitoring procedures to suit the project's needs as well as
to acddress the overall lack of national capacity in M&E.
48.   Executing agencies were slow in contracting projects, in approving procurement requests, in
disbursing funds and submitting disbursement requests to the Bank, and in submitting information on
procurement status. MCT was able to resolve the question of protection against inflation only by the
end of 1993, and was not able to resolve a critical question which pervaded the entire project, that of
excessive control of executing agencies over the detailed allocation of funds between categories of
expenditures. This would have required changes to federal regulations governing the transfer of grant
fund[s.
49.   With respect to studies, although with delay, these were carried out and their conclusions were
discussed and disseminated through seminars and workshops. The government did not send a plan of
action to implement its recommendations to the Bank, as was required in the Loan Agreement, but
discussed policy issues on several occasions during seminars and workshops.
50.   Finally, performance was poor with respect to external auditing during the first half of the
project's life. Audit reports for the years 1991 and 1992 were only received in February 1994, with



15
delays of 19 and 7 months, respectively. The auditor indicated incompleteness (lack of CNPq financial
statements) and irregularities in disbursements of the Foreign Exchange Special Account (FESA). These
were corrected and no major problems were reported subsequently. The report on the 1995 special
account was received two months behind schedule. The 1995 and 1996 audit reports were received on
time and contained no qualifications.
G. Assessment of Outcome
51.    On balance, PADCT II can be rated as satisfactory. The project achieved its major objectives,
the structure and processes of PADCT are functioning well, and its sustainability is likely. The project
also ranks high in benefits in terms of human resources development, S&R infrastructure development,
and institutional improvements. Particularly important was the continuous participation of the scientific
community in the policy and priority-setting process and in the project evaluation and selection process.
The policy and competitiveness studies provided analytical support to MCT and its agencies for S&T
policy reconmnendations. Finally, most of the lessons learned from the project were incorporated into
the design of the follow-up operation, PADCT III (for which the first round of "editais", calls for
proposals, were launched in august 1997).
H. Future Operations
52.   Performance indicators to monitor and evaluate project impacts were not developed beforehand,
and the existing MIS needs significant improvements. As mentioned earlier in this report, in addition to
conducting specific ex-post evaluations, the Executive Secretariat of PADCT is now committed to
establishing a modern M&E system. Moreover, it has taken steps to enter into technical assistance
agreements with OECD and similarly experienced institutions. The desired technical assistance in
M&E will benefit not only PADCT activities but also the entire S&T sector.
I. Key Lessons Learned
53.    Most of the following lessons learned in the implementation of PADCT II were incorporated
into the design of the follow-up operation, the Brazil Science and Technology Sector Reform Support
Project, which was approved by the Bank's board on December 18, 1997 (signing is expected by
March 1998).
ConceptualAspects
54.   Now that the policy framework has become more conducive to innovation by the productive
sector, it is important to increase the likelihood that intermediate products from research be applied by
the productive sector. This requires a demand-driven approach, requiring in turn a much increased
participation by the private sector to bring a business and commercial perspective in setting research
priorities. Greater input from the productive sector is also needed in planning, evaluation and execution
of projects, through participation in high-level decision making bodies, including GTs and CAs. There
is also need for the productive sector to finance a larger share to project costs, as well as the
establishment of effective mechanisms for ensuring that the benefits from innovation are fairly
distributed between firms and research institutions. Finally, business management should be included in
the curricula of graduate-level science programs.
55.   The project succeeded in increasing the concentration of resources on fewer projects, which was
done to encourage capacity building in selccted research institutions. However, concentration on well-



16
established groups may be detrimental to small promising groups, and may not meet the needs of less
advanced regions. Without compromising research quality, encouragement should be given to the
establishment of cooperative linkages between large well established research cadres and small emerging
groups, as well as between research groups from more advanced and from less advanced regions. To
this latter end, a relatively small portion of funds might be reserved for competitive calls for bids in less
advanced regions; this is a feature of PADCT III.
56.   Collaborative use of sophisticated equipment and cost recovery through user and service
charges should be encouraged to keep technology support infrastructure from rapidly becoming
obsolete. Project recipients should be required to present their strategy for such collaboration and
actiial perfornance should be regularly monitored.
57.   Training of high-level technicians and the development of good career prospects for them
should be emphasized to ensure proper operation and maintenance of sophisticated equipment and
increased capacity to perform sophisticated analyses by multi-client service providers.
58.   Integration of the productive sector into the world global economy increases the need for the
Brazilian scientific and technological community to keep up to date with world scientific development.
It is suggested that interchanges with foreign centers of excellence be increased as well as the share of
fellowships and scholarships abroad. Also, the increased use of international peer reviewers from
foreign centers of excellence would, in addition to guaranteeing international standards, help ensure that
Brazilian research output adds to, rather than duplicates, the knowledge pool available internationally.
59.   Technological support services subprograms should be better integrated with sectoral
subprograms, to ensure that the services and expertise provided meet the needs of users.
Monitoring and Evaluation
60.   Because of its critical role, robust indicators and an efficient MIS should be developed early in
project execution, to allow efficient management of project implementation and a thorough assessment
of its outputs and impact. In S&T and R&D projects, for which evaluation of results and impacts are
even more difficult, the early establishment of a comprehensive national monitoring and evaluation
system of S&T as a whole is critical to monitor not only the project activities but also the performance
of the entire sector. Such MIS and M&E systems should be developed with the assistance of
experienced specialized institutions. As part of project contracts between executing agencies and
recipients, standardized data for project monitoring and evaluation should be required from projects'
principal investigators. Failure to supply such data in periodic and final implementation reports could be
grounds for withholding disbursements.
InstitutionalAspects and Processes
61.   As often recommended by GEA, executing agencies should not control the details associated
with the way in which are funds allocated. The contracts form, rather than the more loosely defined
"convgnio" agreements, should be used. Such contracts should allocate funds in installments, giving
researchers more latitude for determining expenditures. Agencies should perform their oversight less
through the detailed approval of changes in allocations and more through financial statements, technical
reports and visits to sites. Also, the performance of projects should be evaluated before new awards to
the same groups are made.



17
62.   In complex projects with many different components carried out by different executing
agencies, effective management requires: (a) a special decision-making commission chaired at the
highest level and made of top-level officials meeting regularly to decide and expedite matters related to
the project; (b) a strong and highly professional project coordination unit to oversee and monitor project
implementation; (c) adequate process for policy formulation, priority setting and project selection
systems, with strong participation of the client community; and (d) efficient project monitoring and
evaluation systems.
63.   Where the programs are complex and sensitive (such as in PADCT II), the appointment of
independent advisory groups of prominent national and international professionals, such as GEA, is
very valuable for oversight, evaluation of results, and provision of feedback to managers as well as
policy makers.
64.   Procurement modalities, thresholds and aggregate limits should be consistent with the special
needs of research projects.
J. Qualitative Evaluation of Subprograms
65.   This evaluation is based on the annual reports from GEA, on evaluations performed by
independent consultants who were contracted in 1996 to evaluate the subprograms (based on reports
from individual project coordinators), and on results of a survey of a sample of 705 projects which was
carried out in 1995.
Research Subprograms
Chemistry And Chemical Engineering (QEQ)
66.   The objective of this component was to continue the human resources development emphasis of
PADCT I to eventually ensure that the Brazilian chemical industry (one of the 10 largest in the world,
but to a certain extent old fashioned) keeps pace with world development. In addition, emphasis would
be put on research areas of technological importance, such as bioactive substances and methods of
separation and purification, and on scientifically sophisticated activities, important both for the training
of highly qualified personnel and for the development and adaptation of important new technologies.
Specific objectives included: (a) training of human resources; with emphasis on highly qualified
personnel; (b) development of basic scientific knowledge; (c) support for the development of new
products and processes and for R&D programs; and (d) strengthening of support services such as
regional analytical centers and national and regional libraries.
67.   QEQ was the largest subprogram in terms of budget. It received about 18% of PADCT II
funds. 256 projects were contracted, for a total of US$56.2 million (compared with the original budget
of US$54.4 million). This subprogram contributed to the development of the intended areas of
knowledge, which have shown a significant expansion in all indicators during the last few years.
However, M&E remained a weak point.
68.   Human resources training and scientific production objectives were substantially achieved. The
QEQ component contributed to a substantial growth in the number of doctoral theses, from 70 in 1990
to 146 in 1995, and in publications in national (from 106 in 1990 to 196 in 1994) and international
journals (from 303 in 1990 to 636 in 1994). The scientific output, in terms of publications and theses



18
per project, was the highest among the research subprograms (Table 6A), and productivity, in terms of
average grant per joumal publication, the highest (Table 6H).
69.   The subprogram significantly contributed to the improvement of research infrastructure.
Todlay, modern laboratories are operating in more than 10 states. It also funded consortia for shanrng
high-cost equipment such as nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometers. Finally, it has allowed a
signiificant improvement in the provision of journals and books for libraries, and has contributed to the
computerization of libraries under 23 projects.
70.   The subprogram attempted to promote partnerships between academia and industry in R&D
projects, though on a limited scale (21 projects with industrial participation were contracted since 1990,
out of a total of 72 R&D projects). The 153 projects surveyed in 1995 (60% of all projects) produced
high averages of 0.46 products per project, 0.33 patent applications, and 0.07 processes. However,
only one product was commercialized, pointing out an inadequate interaction with industry, attributed to
the inexperience of research groups and to rigid contracting procedures of FINEP, which acted as
disincentives to industry participation. According to GEA, the representatives of the industrial sector in
the subprogram's GT endorsed funding of human resources and research infrastructure projects, in
apparent detriment to R&D projects; it was not, however, to be taken as a lack of interest in R&D, but
rather as their judgment of what they considered to be the research inputs in shortest supply.
Geosciences and Mineral Technology (GTM)
71.   The general objectives of the GTM component were to support scientific research and
tec:hnology development in the sector, contributing to institutional building in universities and research
institutions. Specific objectives were to: (a) support basic research in geoscience; (b) support applied
mineral research; (c) develop extractive processes; (d) support research on physical environment use;
and (e) establish an evaluation and monitoring system for the subprogram. Specific activities for each
objective are detailed in Table 5 and included human resources development, strengthening of
laboratories, support to a number of research programs, and strengthening of maintenance and libraries.
72.    The project has financed 158 projects for a total of US$40.5 million (compared with the
original budget of US$37..7 million), or 13% of total project costs. About 65.5% of projects supported
geoscience and 34.5% mineral technology. About 42% of funds were spent in projects aimed at
upgrading laboratory infrastructure, 58% for R&D projects (including infrastructure and equipment
needed for carrying out research) and only 0.2% for the preparation of technical books, so needed in
Brazil. According to the consultant's evaluation and to GEA reports, many of the objectives of GTM to
strengthen infrastructure and capabilities of research groups and graduate studies programs have been
achieved. Many laboratories are now well equipped to international standards and have a wide regional
distribution. Many groups are able to make relevant contributions to earth materials sciences, including
water resources and land use minimizing environmental impact. The scientific output of the
su'bprogram was satisfactory, as measured by the publications in the 1995 survey, and so was its
productivity in terms of average grant per journal publication. Many of the projects funded by the
subprogram included partnerships with the productive sector, private or state-owned enterprises.
Productivity in terms of commercialized technological output, however, was low, despite the large share
of R&D projects. This R&D, however, is not usually seen as developing technology, but rather as
developing knowledge and understanding of the resource base for industry and how that resource base
can best be managed. However, GEA noted that much remained to be done to increase interaction and
knowledge transfer between the scientific and productive sectors.



19
73.   Human resources training and scientific production objectives were substantially achieved. A
large increase in highly trained scientists, both at home and abroad, has resulted in important
improvements in the quality of research and teaching. Furthermore, GTM contributed to more than 250
Master's and 80 PhD theses, 900 national publications and 550 international publications. According to
GEA comments, the results in terms of international publications understates the quality of research and
human resources.
Biotechnology (SBIO)
74.   The objectives of the subprogram were to continue to strengthen Brazil's human resource
capacity for basic and applied research in biotechnology, which will eventually result in the
establishment of biotechnology industries. Training, research and the development of supporting
technical services would aim at achieving competence in processes and methods and their application in
the areas of human health, agriculture, animal husbandry and industrial biotechnology.
75.    A total of 158 projects were contracted under this component, for US$44.1 million (compared
with the original budget of US$40.0 million), or 14% of total project costs . Projects in the areas of
human health and basic biology predominate (45% and 27% respectively), followed by research on
diagnostic tests (9%), plants biotechnology (8%), biotechnology products (7%/6), and others, including
training (4%/6).
76.   Human resources training and scientific production objectives were substantially achieved.
PADCT contributed to the formation of a significant critical mass of competent researchers, which are
generating a scientific production of excellent quality. Based on the 1995 survey, scientific production
yields were relatively low compared to other subprograms, with an average of 2 completed theses per
project, 6 publications (over half in international journals) and four doctorates per project (or 0.5 theses
and 1.5 papers per doctoral student, compared with 2 theses and four publications at UFRJ's Institute of
Microbiology over the same period). The average grant per publication was also relatively high. This
may be attributed to poor performance of some large projects which absorbed a large share of
resources. Many of the scientific research projects, however, were small and yielded good results.
There was significant interdisciplinary activity in the projects.
77.   The project significantly contributed to the upgrading of laboratories through the provision of
modern instruments permitting sophisticated analytical methods. Today, many laboratories are
equipped to use molecular and cellular biology techniques, thus enhancing the competitiveness of
Brazilian research. However, the establishment or strengthening of support infrastructure centers
(service centers capable of performing sophisticated specialized analyses, bio-terrariums, culture
collections, DNA and peptides synthesis and sequencing) fell short of expectations, due principally to
the lack of high-level specialized technicians able to perform sophisticated analyses. The dissemination
of research results remnains incipient.
78.   The project attempted to introduce partnerships between academia and industry. Technological
production, however, was modest in relation to costs (which were high) despite some notable
exceptions, such as first genetically engineered microorganism capable of insulin synthesis in Brazil,
technology for biodegradable plastics from sugar cane bagasse and new varieties of soybeans, oranges
and maize. Integration between industry and university was difficult, particularly in the large projects.
This was attributed to the agencies' discouraging policies ( for example, FINEP's insistence sharing
royalties of research results), and insufficient financial commitrnent and involvement of potential
(business) users of the technology in project planning, evaluation and implementation.



20
New Materials (SNM)
79.    The objectives of the subprogram were to strengthen Brazil's human resources capacity in the
areas of materials science and engineering, by supporting human resources development in basic and
appllied sciences, supporting research projects on the structure and properties of new materials, and
development and engineering of new materials; supporting service centers and libraries; and financing
studies, seminars and monitoring and evaluation activities.
80.   The project financed 84 projects for a total of US$38.5 million (compared with the original
budget of US$36.0 million), representing 12% of total project costs. These included 47 graduate
courses, two service centers (for characterization and processing) which absorbed a total of US$6.5
million, and upgrading of 10 libraries (US$1.0 million). The majority of projects involved human
resources training and R&D in materials which are relevant to modem industry. Projects dealt with a
wide range of materials relevant to modem industry (advanced ceramics, materials for electronic and
opto-electronic applications, metallic alloys, special steels, and bio-material and polymeric composites),
and achieved a good balance between basic research (38% of funds), technological development (39%
of funds) and services (29% of funds). The groups supported generated a large number of good-quality
publications and theses (Table 6A), although the average grant per publication was the highest of all
research subprograms. One quarter of the projects involved inter-institutional activities and 18 showed
inter-action with industry. The project has stimulated interdisciplinary research in this field in an
aca(lemic sector lacking this tradition.
81.   The rate of technological output (products and processes) was the highest of all subprograms in
the 1995 survey (0.54 and 0.63 per project), but only one third of processes and 10% of products
developed were transferred to industry or commercialized. Qualitatively, GEA rated interaction
between research groups and the industrial sector as disappointing. There have been instances of
successful technological transfers (advanced magnet materials and polymeric prostesis materials), but,
oveirall, the few research groups which had such interactions either focused on more traditional areas of
material processing and synthesis (special steels or alloys) or simply provided services to industry.
Such shortages were attributed to inexperience in interdisciplinary research essential to deal with more
advanced materials and lack of experience in dealing with the productive sector. GEA recommended
that emphasis be given to the generation of basic knowledge and the creation of a multidisciplinary basis
necessary for the understanding, control and prediction of material properties, as well as processing and
production.
Instrumentation (SINST)
82.    The objectives of the project were to continue to support university groups, not so much for
design and development of instruments (the opening of imports made instruments easily available and
cheaper than those produced in Brazil) but to strengthen the national capacity to produce components
and. subsystems, solve specific instrumentation problems and develop specially integrated instrument
systems that could not readily be procured in the market. The project supported research and
technological development projects, human resources development, and development of information,
monitoring and evaluation systems.
83.   The project financed a total of 175 projects, for a total of US$19.3 million (compared with an
original budget of US$18.8 million), or 6% of total project costs. With respect to human resources
training, the program consolidated several established graduate programs, through the provision of



21
equipment and, generally, the creation of favorable conditions for quality research in new research lines.
These programs resulted in the formation of a sizable class of specialized professionals. The number of
theses, publications in national and international journals and presentations in congresses and seminars
was relatively low, which is a characteristic of programs with an R&D focus.
84.    The project significantly improved the operational capacity of recipient research and service
laboratories, frequently bringing them up to levels comparable to the best worldwide. However, it will
require these centers to seek financial self-sufficiency through sale of services to maintain these levels,
as equipment quickly becomes obsolete in this era of rapid technological development.
85.   With respect to technological development, 59 enterprises participated in the project, showing
the highest interaction with industry of all subprograms. Although, at mid-term, an evaluation showed
that 30% of prototypes were very good and 51% were good, it appears that most of the instruments and
products developed remained at the level of prototypes (only 12 products were commercialized from the
62 projects surveyed in 1995--Table 6A), a low rate for activities which should be normally focused on
industrial application. This imbalance between supply and demand reveals changes in the policy
environment (opening of the economy and consequent reduction in the domestic instrumentation
industry, due to lower-cost substitutes available elsewhere), and insufficient participation of industry at
all stages of project development, resulting in research outcomes remaining within universities. In 1995,
GEA even suggested terminating the program or substantially changing its objectives and focus in light
of new demand identified by studies.
86.   Nevertheless, the project promoted the creation of a national competence in the area of
instrumentation. In particular, it helped establish 11 university groups with a high level of competence.
As the country moves ahead in its industrialization efforts, highly specialized instrumentation
capabilities will be required for process control, quality management, medical instrumentation system
and special purpose instruments which will not be available off-the-shelf. It is likely that the project
contributed significantly to developing a technological capacity which will be of considerable industrial
importance at a later date.
Environment Subprogram (CIAMB)
87.   The general objective of CIAMB was to promote an inter-sectoral approach to environmental
research through the creation of multidisciplinary teams, the integration of training and research, and the
study of technologies to maintain and improve the quality of the environment. Specific objectives were
to: (a) support graduate training programs that emphasize interdisciplinary research and holistic
approaches to environmental issues, especially in the areas of geosciences, mineral technology and
biotechnology, through strengthening of physical facilities and equipment and human resources
development; (b) support interdisciplinary research projects by supporting existing and new research
groups; (c) support research and development of methods, processes, techniques, and products for
diagnosis, and prevention of environmental problems; and (d) monitor and evaluate subprogram
activities through events and studies.
88.   The project has financed 40 projects for a total of US$15.6 million (compared with the original
budget of US$14.7 million), or 4.9% of total project costs. The average project size was about
US$400,000.
89.   Human resources development and scientific production objectives were substantially achieved.
As of mid-1996, 110 Master's and 5 Ph.D. theses had been produced from a sample of four programs



22
associated with CIAMB projects in the areas of aquatic and continental ecosystems, development and
environment, environmental engineering and general ecology. However, their number will certainly
increase in the future, as many had not yet been completed, in particular, 13 projects dealing on specific
eco-systems which typically yield results after some delays. A sample of six projects produced 194
publications in national journals, 132 papers in international publications and 851 abstracts presented in
scientific meetings. Most of these deal with thematic subjects such as biology, biochemistry, earth
ecology, geology, water resources, and coastal waters. However, only very few emphasized social and
economic sciences. There are not yet reports assessing the real impact these projects had in the solution
of environmental problems. A significant critical mass of competent researchers exists now and it is
expected that the quality and quantity of scientific production will increase in the future.
90.   The project significantly contributed to the upgrading of research facilities and analytical
equipment. It is reported that CIAMB financial contributions acted as seed money and attracted
additional funding. CIAMB also contributed to the strengthening of infrastructure services through the
funding of computer hardware, cars, boats and information and bibliographic material.
91.   Technological production of CIAMB was modest. However, according to GEA, this reflects
the fact that technology development was not emphasized in the editais calling for projects.
92.   According to the sub-component evaluation consultant and to GEA, one of the most important
achievements of CIAMB was initiating collaborative and mulit-disciplinary projects between different
institutions and research groups, contributing to a new interdisciplinary culture so important in the
environmental area.
Support Subprograms
Science Planning and Management (PGCT)
93.   Under PADCT I, the main objective of the PGCT sub-programn was to foster the development
of the academnic basis in this field of knowledge, through human resources strengthening in science
policy planning and management. The program suffered from excessive fragmentation of resources and
resulted in poor productivity. Under PADCT II, to avoid excessive fragmentation, the main objectives
of PGCT were: (a) consolidation of a number of permanent research groups with long-term commitment
to a research agenda in science and technology planning and management; and (b) dissemination of
appropriate planning and management practices through a program of technical assistance to PADCT
itself and a program of advanced training for professionals from universities, research centers, and
R&D centers in the productive sector. Specific activities were: (i) human resources development
through the awarding of national and overseas scholarships; (ii) institutional development through the
support of programs dealing with social control of technology, emerging new technologies, industrial
competitiveness, international cooperation, public policy, information, technology management,
strengthening of university research; and (iii) support to PADCT through technical assistance and
studies to strengthen PADCT in M&E and development of a technical and management information
system.
94.   The first objective was achieved through the strengthening of 7 major research centers in
PGCT. Until project mid-term review, the project acted as a "vertical" subprogram. The first call for
proposals (1990) recommended approval of 12 institutional projects involving 7 major universities,
totaling about US$1.65 million, or about 34% of the original budget for the subprogram. The projects
included a number of integrated activities such as research, training, course development, seminars and



23
conferences and technical assistance to business and governmental institutions, under the management
of a same project coordinator. The seven major universities presented a total of about 168 Master's and
Ph.D. theses, and published more than 160 publications8 in national and international journals.
95.   At GEA's recommendation, a revised strategy was adopted for PGCT at the time of the mid-
term review, giving priority to projects supporting the mainstream "vertical" sectoral sub-programs of
PADCT and science and industry sectors' interaction. The four calls of the 1994 edital proposed to
support a total number of 43 projects. The response to these calls was weak, with a total of only 23
proposals received and 6 approved. According to GEA, the main reasons were: (a) lack of
understanding on the part of project coordinators in sectoral programs of the role of the PGCT
institutional groups and priorities; and (b) lack of enthusiasm of PGCT institutional groups to play a
subsidiary role to the sectoral project coordinators.
96.   In 1995, a revised edital was issued to introduce changes based on the results of previous calls
and to include several studies9, the promotion of a training program for professionals from the
productive sector, and an evaluation study of the Brazilian S&T sector. The edital proposed to support
a maximum number of 32 projects. However only 8 proposals were approved, including 6 studies and 2
training programs for the productive sector. A second edital was issued later in 1995 to contract
projects aimed at defining an action plan for the promotion of technological development in enterprises
through a management model. A total of 15 proposals were received and six were approved.
97.   A total of 43 projects were contracted under the subprogram, for US$8.0 million, compared
with the original budget of US$4.8 million, or about 2.5% of total project costs. Besides the 32 projects
described in the earlier paragraphs (which totaled US$2.8 million), technical assistance was provided to
PADCT's executive secretariat in the development of the MIS.
98.    Overall, except for the strengthening and consolidation of the most important PGCT centers, the
subprogram has not fulfilled its objectives. There was no dissemination and institutional development
of PGCT in the PADCT vertical sectoral subprograms, and no interaction with industry. Lack of
interest was evidenced by the low number of responses to calls and the low quality of most of the
proposals received.
Science Equipment Maintenance (SPM)
99.   In addition to continuing the objectives of PADCT I, which aimed to establish 140 maintenance
facilities (including 14 nuclei, 21 centers and 87 units), SPM under PADCT II gave emphasis to human
resources development through on-the-job training and specific courses. Specific objectives included:
(a) strengthening of existing maintenance structures; (b) support for new maintenance structures; (c)
development of integrated services for the maintenance of sophisticated high cost equipment; (d) human
resources development; and (e) promotion of, and support for, the integration of the maintenance
structures within an operational network.
8 These figures do not include USP's important scientific production in this area.
9 These studies covered a diverse range of themes without a clear link with the priorities of PGCT; among
themes covered were: management of universities, innovations in financing S&T studies, the role of
NGOs in development of S&T, and the impact of the privatization of the steel sector.



24
100.  Altogether, 132 projects were contracted under this component, for US$10 million (compared
with thle original budget of US$10.7 million), or 3.1% of total project costs. SPM supported 62
institutions, half of which had more than one maintenance group. A November 1996 evaluation based
on a sample composed of 50% of the maintenance centers showed that: (a) 85% developed an
institutional maintenance concept; (b) 67% had adequate installations; (c) 67% carried out preventive
maintenance; (d) 65% had adopted innovative maintenance practices; and (e) 52% made calibrations
after maintenance. However, the evaluation also shows that only 40% of the institutions had adequate
cost accounting systems and 22% had efficient cost allocation mechanisms.
101.   SPM adequately achieved its objectives. The main results include: diffusion of an institutional
maintenance concept; improving maintenance procedures through incorporation of precise calibration
as par-t of maintenance procedures; diffusing the experience gained to the maintenance community and
supporting agencies; establishing the need for specific training of professionals; and promoting the
definition of the maintenance strmcture and its integration within a network. SPM did not, however,
address the issues of cost accounting and recovery, critical to the sustainability of the component. The
development of integrated services for the maintenance of sophisticated high-cost equipment can be a
good start in that direction.
Science Education (SPEC)
102.  The objectives of the project were to support the establishment of networks of university, local
and administrative groups committed to innovation in science education and to expand successful pilot
programs through seeking cofinancing with state and local governments and industry. The project
would finance the training of teachers (formal and in-service), post-graduate studies in science
education, dissemination of science knowledge to the community at large, production and dissemination
of educational materials, and research and studies.
103.  A total of 257 projects were contracted, for US$28.2 rnillion, compared with the original
estiimiate of US$22.0 million, or about 9% of total project costs. With respect to teacher training,
achievements were substantially in line with targets with respect to formal training (although less so
with respect to continuous education programs and more so with respect to formal upgrading
programs). They were substantially above targets for short-term, in-service teacher training courses,
with a reasonable overall quality rating of 43% considered as good or very good. Sustainability of
achievements of ad hoc short courses without follow-up, however, is significantly less than that of
continuous education programs (which were very limited under the project).
104.  Extra-curricular activities (fairs, events, science clubs, etc.) far exceeded original targets. They
accounted for over a third of all projects. From conceived as complementary to formal training
activities, they became a priority. Yet, their quality and contribution to teachers' knowledge appear
uncertain.
105.   Scientific production from groups involved in research for the development of innovative
training programs and materials was large (over 13 publications per project), relevant, and of good
quality, revealing the important contribution of professors (15 per project on average). It also included
the participation of centers of excellence among which were UFSC, IF-USP-SP, UnB, Rede Rio de
Janeiro, RIPEC-USP-SP, SINEC-USP-S. Carlos, and Rede ACOMECIM-RS. Except for the
Experimentoteca program of SINEC-USP-S. Carlos, technological production of didactic materials was
disappointing; very few were actually commercialized. Generally, the projects suffered from



25
insufficient participation by experienced educators, from decreasing interest by CAPES, and from lack
of interactions with the client community (basic education teachers, primarily).
106.  Finally, contrary to original goals, the project supported more isolated projects than network
projects, since network projects only accounted for about 25% of projects and about 44% of contracted
value. This tends to limit the dissemination and impact of successful experiences. The Rede
ACOMECIM, for instance, covers over 100 municipalities, while some projects networks cover only
one.
107.  The geographical outreach of the program was large, since it included activities in 22 states.
Contract awards by states were generally in line with the number of applications; the south and
southeast regions of Brazil accounted for about 70% of projects contracted.
108.  Overall, GEA reports that the subprogram has helped create a lively and increasingly well-
trained group of science educators, initiated many new in-service teacher courses, rejuvenated some pre-
service teacher courses, allowed groups to develop elements of curricula and initiated larger programs
such as science centers. There is however a need for more effective evaluation of results. Furthermore,
impacts will remain limited as long as the development of curriculum, materials, teacher training and
exam systems are not coordinated, and as long as there is no proper integration with state and local
authorities.
Science Information (ICT)
109.  The objective of the project was to improve access and diffusion of scientific and technical
information to the S&T community by strengthening information systems and services. The strategy
called for human resources development, development of a system of public access to data bases,
development of data bases and catalogs, a center to duplicate documents, and monitoring and evaluation
of the subprogram.
110.  A total of 214 projects were financed, at a total cost of US$5.6 million (versus US$6.2 million
oinginally budgeted). The project financed training of human resources at all levels, including
specialization courses in information sciences and automated services as well as short-term courses. It
mostly financed the establishment of a national public service to access data bases. This information
network (SPA system, later called ANTARES Network) is based on a system in which in-service
stations spread throughout the country in universities and research centers can contact distribution
centers, where the data are kept. The project financed 8 out of a total of 14 distribution centers and 165
out of 180 service centers (terminals). It financed computer equipment, intercommunication lines, the
development of a common access language, training of professionals in the use of the system, the
acquisition of CD-ROM data bases, and the development of 12 national data bases.
111.  Except for the human resources training components, GEA believes that the subprogram failed
to fulfill its targets. Lengthy centralized procurement meant that some project investments quickly
became outdated. Also, the distribution centers entered into the network thinking more about their own
needs than of cooperating in a network. Most of the data bases produced on Brazilian scientific and
technological literature are poor records with little usefulness. There was no integration with the
information component of TIB, as GEA frequently called for. Finally, the system was not used to
establish systems which could keep track of the project subprograms outputs.
Basic Industrial Technology (TIB)



26
112.  The objectives of the program were to continue to strengthen the country's metrology
infrastructure and services; to provide training to industry in quality management; to expand industry
information centers (on matters such as patents, standards and norms) ; and to support a set of studies
on basic industrial technology. During implementation, objectives were expanded to include the
promotion of standardization and normalization activities in industry.
113.  A total of 206 projects were selected, for a contracted anount of US$35.1 million (11% of total
project costs), in line with the original budget of US$36.4 million. A number of studies were financed
under this component, including the Industrial Competitiveness Study.
114.  The project invested substantial amounts, through 64 projects, in the training of enterprises,
universities and other institutions, to develop institutional expertise in total quality management. These
projects trained an estimated 23,500 as part of the Brazilian Program for Quality and Productivity
(PBQP), which contributed to record numbers of IS09000 certifications in Brazil during the past few
years. GEA suggested that this program should become progressively self-supporting.
115.  The project also attempted to promote voluntary activities of normalization and standardization
through a total of 40 projects which (a) provided training courses to industry (free of charge); and (b)
financed projects aimed at the development of sectoral norms and standards and normalization in
enterprises. There is no evaluation available of the effectiveness of these programs. Many projects
(particularly those in normalization) suffered from delays in the transfer of funds. They would have
benefited from a closer cooperation between the interested industries and their associations and ABNT,
and from more emphasis on product standardization.
116.  With respect to metrology, the project focused on strengthening INMETRO's primary
lalboratories and secondary laboratories of the National Network for Calibration. There have also been
substantial efforts to increase the area of scientific metrology (the science of measuring) by supporting
training and granting scholarships to students (Master's and doctoral levels) to build up capacity in
Brazil and overcome limitations faced by INMETRO. Funding of INMETRO's national primary
metrology laboratory--CEMCI-- was suspended for two years during initial implementation due to
inadequate staffing by scientists qualified to operate the sophisticated facilities requested under the
project, and to lack of a policy to attract qualified personnel. Planning and strategic orientations of the
metrology component substantially benefited from the advice of the Technical Advisory Committee on
M[etrology, composed of internationally- known specialists, which helped move the component towards
decentralization (stimulating partnership in primary metrology, decentralizing activities of
standardization and certification), and started to promote regional secondary level calibration
laboratories.
117.  The project continued to support the strengthening or establishment of information centers
specialized in the provision to industry of information on patents and national and international technical
standards. The project supported 20 such centers (6 regional and 14 sectoral), by financing equipment
and training of personnel in the operation of the systems. The challenge for these centers will be to find
a role for themselves in an environment where a mass of information is now available worldwide which
can be freely accessed through the Internet.
Science Consumables and Reagents (SPIN)



27
118.  The main objective of this subprogram was to supply consumable goods throughout the
country's research laboratories by stimulating domestic production at a time when import difficulties
were extreme. The subprogram was discontinued in 1995 after imports were freed and development and
production of many consumables domestically became non-competitive. The subprogram received a
total of US$2.6 million, out of an original budget of US$6.8 million. In all, 44 projects were financed.
119.  Many researchers competed for funds to synthesize, isolate and purify substances or biological
materials that could satisfy other researchers' needs. Unfortunately this activity was performed without
giving much consideration to the local demand by industry. When imports opened, interest simply died
and no attempt was made to identify market niches.
120.  It is interesting to note that, out of the 22 projects surveyed in 1995, only one developed a
commercialized product and one resulted in technology transfer. Nonetheless, the projects' scientific
output was prolific: 26 journal publications per project on average. It is probable that the project has
contributed to developing a valuable technological capacity which will be used in areas such as the
development of new plant, animal and human disease diagnostics and reagents for food processing. In
the future, this capacity could support the development of products by industry.
121.  Curiously, SARDI, the storehouse and import agent for research goods, survived the opening of
imports. Its independent survival proves that it is performing a significant role in assisting institutions
with the significant amount of paperwork still required to import fine chemicals.



I                           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



29
Part II:
Statistical Information



30
SCIENCE RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT (LOAN 3269-BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives              Substantial           Partial             egible         Not aglicl
Macro policies
Sector policies                                                    x
Financial objectives                                                                                      x
I]nstitutional development                     x
Physical objectives                            x
Povertv reduction                                                                                         x
Gender issues                                                                                             I
Other social objectives                                            xI
E]nvironmental objectives                      x
Public sector management                       x
Private sector development                                                                                xI
Likely            Unlikelv           Uncermain
B. Proiect Sustainabilitv                      x
Hi Xhl
C. Bank Performance                       satisfactor        Satisfactory         Deficient
1dentification                                                     x
Preparation assistance                         x
Appraisal                                                          x
Supervision4                                                       x
_ighly
D. Borrower Performance                   Satisfacton        Sadtov               Dfic
Preparation                                                        x
Implementation:
Provision of counterpart funds                                                     x
Project coordination unit                                      Xs
Financing agencies    -                                                           x6
Covenant compliance                                               x
.E - Beneficiarv Performance                                       x
Highlv                                                     Hjihlj
satisfactory       Satisfactorv      Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
F. Assessment of Outcome                                           x
More thn gO% of the projects (corresponding to about 85% of total value of PADCT  pD rjct)e ai_plemadelathe mod
ieveloped south-eastern and southern regions of Brazil.
L The objectives ofthe environnental sub-program (CIAMB) were substantially achieved
Participation ofthe private sector in R&D projects was not clearly defined as an objective.
,',,e frequency of supervison decreased after mid-term review (in 1994) as operational martn  wem hnled in bt fam_wk of
discussions for a follow-up operation, several workshops and seminars, and short supervision missionsr
Performance of the Executive Secretariat of the Project can be rated satisfactory, except for the implementaion ar dpqrtion of efficient
MIS and monitoring and evaluation systems.
i Due to Borrower's inability until 1994 to provide sufficient protection of project funds agais infdtion and lbagdaiy in contracting
fiunds and disbursernent of funds.
t Deficent for counterpart funds and delays in the auditing of project accounts.



31
SCIENCE RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT (LOAN 3269-BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 2 - Related Bank Loans/Credits
Brazil             Purnose               Year of          Status           Loan in
Loan                                   Approval                          Millions of
Credit                                                                      US$
Precedin2 Operations
Ln 1462  Title - Vocational Training     June 1977  Closed: 12/ 31/ 1982     32.0
Purpose - to develop the capacity
of the Ministry of Labor to
perform its function of guiding the
major public and private
vocational training agencies, and
to increase vocational training
opportunities in selected sub-
sectors and geographical areas.
Ln 1867  Title - Northeast Basic Education   June 1980  Closed: 09/01/1987   32.0
Purpose - to contruct and/or
remodel, plus furnish and equip
over 2,000 basic education
classrooms.
Ln 2366  Title - Technician Training     Dec. 1983  Closed: 10/17/1990       20.0
Purpose - to define a long-term
development policy for
agricultural and industrial
technical training at national and
regional levels, and to provide the
agricultural and industrial sectors
with the specialized skills required
for development.
Ln 2412  Title - Urban Basic Education   May 1984  Closed: 02/28/1991        40.0
Purpose - to improve quality and
efficiency in the first four grades
in primary schools of the North
and Center-West regions of
Brazil.



32
Brazil             Purpose               Year of           Status          Loan in
Loan                                    Approval                          Millions of
Credit                                                                       USs
Ln 2810  Title- Skills Formation         May 1987  Closing': extended to      74.5
Purpose - to strengthen the                Dec. 31, 1997
institutional framework, response
capacity, and training functions of
the National Vocational Training
System, and to improve access to
public vocational training
programs via expansion of
services in the underserved areas
of the country.
Ln 2489  Title - Science and Technology  Jan 1985   Closed: Dec. 31, 1991     72.0
Purpose - to foster the
development of human resources
and to strengthen research
capacity in selected areas
considered important to economic
growth in Brazil.
Followin-l Operations
7tle- Science and Technology              Approved by Board on      155.0
Refonn Support                            December 18, 1997;
Purpose - to support the                  signing expected by
Government in its ongoing effort           March 1998
to make the current science and
technology system into an efficient
system for technology innovation
and adaptation.
lAlthough the project is still not closed, an ICR was completed in 1992, when USS58.9 million of loan funds were
cancelecl in 1990 upon Government request; an amendment was approved in 1995 to allow the remaining US$2.1
million of unallocated funds to be used for policy studies in support of the Plano Real, including the execution of an
LSMS.



33
SCIENCE RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT (LOAN 3269-BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 3: Project Timetable
Stevs in oroiect cvcle                               Date planned           Date actual
Identification                                         June 1988           June 24, 1988
Preparation'                                           June 1989        June 26-July 12, 1989
Pre-appraisal2                                         April 19893        October 24, 1989
Appraisal                                              April 1989       May 7-June 18, 19904
Negotiations5                                        September 1990       September 4, 1990
Board Presentation                                                       November 29, 1990
Signing                                              February 1991        February 15, 1991
Effectiveness                                        March 1, 1991          May 15, 1991
Midterm Review                                       February 1994        Februay 11, 1994
Project Completion                                   June 30, 1995          June 30, 1996
Loan Closing6                                      December 31, 1995     Decenber31, 1996
lPreparation of this follow-up second Science and Technology project (PADCT II) and supervision of the
first Science and Technology project (PADCT 1) took place during the same rmission.
2Participants at the pre-appraisal review meeting held on October 1 1, 1989 decided that the mission
would be a pre-appraisal rather than an appraisal mission. The basis for this decision was two-fold: first,
a concern with the Borrower's capacity to manage a US$ 660 million project, as initially proposed; and
second, uncertainties with regard to how the project would tackle issues related to the enabling
environment for technological innovation in the private sector.
3 Planned date for appraisal is as per initial executive project summary.
4 Appraisal was further delayed due to the Bank's Regional Loan Committee decision to request, as a
condition for the project, an agreement on fundamental reforms in competitive policies (including removal
of trade and technological barriers and improvement in the protection of IPR) to justify the initially
proposed loan of about US$300 million. Alternatively, if this conditionality were not acceptable to the
Government, the loan size would be reduced to about US$100 million to support the first two years of
PADCT II. This decision was based on a concern that the economic returns to investments would be
limited as long as complementary private investments in R&D were limited or rnisdirected at that time.
5 Planned dates for negotiations through effectiveness are those shown in the Memorandum of the
President.
6Loan closing date was extended under an amendment dated November 28, 1995.



34
SCIENCE RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT (LOAN 3269-BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 4 - Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimates and Actual
(US$ million)
Bank FY                   Cumulative Loan Disbursement
and Semeste           Appraisal                        Actual as     CumuhlLat
Ending              Estimate         Actual      %/O of Estimate    Counterpart
1991        Dec.1990          0.00             0.00                            0.0
Jun. 1991        23.00             0.00            0.0             0.0
1992        Dec. 1991         46.00            18.00           39.1            7.4
Jun. 1992        70.00            18.00           25.7            12.0
1993        Dec. 1992         93.00            19.06           20.5            20.3
Jun. 1993        112.00           29.25           26.1            26.9
1994        Dec. 1993        127.00           41.50            32.7           47.8
Jun. 1994        138.00           50.56           36.6            58.4
1995        Dec. 1994        145.00           53.52            36.9            80.0
Jun. 1995        148.00           61.81           41.8            96.8
1996        Dec. 1995         150.00          79.21            52.8           138.1
Jun. 1996                         113.23          75.5            148.6
1997        Dec. 1996                         137.37           91.6           170.5
Jun. 1997                         140.00          93.3            178.7
Date of Final Loan Disbursement: April 26,1997
180.00l;-  ;--    3l,    
1600.00              f                          /
140.00-
120.00-
4 80.00
60.00
40.00 -
20.00 -
0.00~~~~~~
-4  Estimate       U-Actual           Counepr



35
SCIENCE RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT (LOAN 3269-BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 5- Selected Indicators of Project Performance
No perfornance indicators were provided in either the Staff Appraisal Report or the
Memorandum of the President. As a substitute, a number of indicators were derived from an
evaluation of 705 projects (39% of the total number and value of projects competitively
contracted). These are presented in Tables SA through 5D. Indicators are also presented about the
degree of competition betwveen projects (Table 5E) and the regional distribution of projects (Table
SF). Results of an opinion survey are presented in Table 5G and average grant size per publication
is presented in Table 5H.



36
Table 5C- Composition of Sample of 705 projects by Project Sub-program
Sub-program                        Number of Projects          Value of Projects (US$ m)
Total    Sample      %        Total     Sample       %
Chemistry & Chemical Eng.      256        153       60        56.20     25.10       45
Geosciences & Mineral Tec.      158       60        38       40.50      20.76       51
Biotechnology                   158       73         46       44.10      18.75      43
Instrumentation                175        62         35       19.30      4.67       24
New Materials                   84        52        62        38.50     18.48       48
Environmental Sciences          40        26         65       15.60      4.82       31
Science Education              257        115       45       28.20      11.07       39
S ,& T Information             214        53        25        5.60       2.25       40
S & T Planning & Management     43         9        21        8.00       1.49       19
Basic Industrial Technology     247       65         26       35.10      7.68       22
Maintenance                     132       15         11       10.00      1.35       14
Consumables                     45        22        49        2.60       1.18       46
botal                        J  1,809  1  705   _   39         303.7     117.60      39
Table SD- Composition of Sample of 705 projects by Type of Project
Type of Project                 Number of Projects              Value of Projects
l__    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _  _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                nL(U S$
_ _______________           Total                   i      Total             No
Scientific Research           326            46              36.1              31
Technology Development        102            15              30.9              26
Services                      105            15              12.5              11
Human Resources               172            24              38.1              32
Total                         705            100             117.6            100



37
Table 5E- Competition for Projects, 1990-1995 1
Sub-program                        Projects Submitted    Projects Selected    Percent Selected
Chemistrv & Chemical Eng.                 876                   247                    28
Geosciences & Mineral Tec.                520                   154                    30
Biotechnology                              527                  171                    32
Instrumentation                            504                  170                    34
New Materials                              350                   80                    23
Environmental Sciences                     266                   40                    15
Science Education                         505                   215                    43
S & T Information                         347                   143                    41
S & T Planning & Management                100                   32                    32
Basic Industrial Technology                471                  206                    44
Maintenance                                323                  115                    35
Consumables                                83                    43                    52
Total                                     4872                  1616                   33
Table SF- Regional Distribution of Projects (as of end-1995)
Region                    Number of Projects                Value of Projects
Total           %           Total (USS            N
T              ~~~~~Million) I
North                    40             2.3           4,515.2             1.6
North East               176            9.9           24,548.4            8.8
Mid West                 123            6.9           16,001.3            5.8
South East              1,112           62.9         188,191.0            67.8
South                    318            18.0          44,371.7            16.0
Total                   1,769          100.0         277,627.6           100.0
'Excludes some calls for bids in 1995 for which award recommendationss were not available at the time
of this comparison.



38
Table 5G- Results of an Opinion Survey {via questionnaire)
PADCT II Evaluation                 From PADCT I to PADCT II
Item Evaluated             Poor    Regular     Satisfactory 1%)  Respondents       Ratio of Those
(%l     I%l                         Evaluating PADCTO    Indicating
and II equally      Improvement to Those
Indicating
Deterioration
PROGRAM OUTPUT
S&T Infrastructure         8.1       28.0         63.9               76.4                 3.5
Human Resources Training   6.8       26.9         66.2               78.3                 3.0
Scientific Outputs         5.1       26.0         69.0               77.8                 4.7
Technological Outputs      15.4      37.5         47.0               74.6                 4.8
METHODOLOGY
Structures for University-
Enterprise Cooperation   24.1      43.1          32.8              67.4                 8.7
International Cooperation  26.2      38.4         35.4               79.6                 3.7
Interdisciplinary Projects  10.6     32.0         57.3               69.9                 7.0
Dissernination of
Information & Communication   20.3    36.3         43.3               70.7                 6.3
Connection with
Information Networks    43.4      32.4          24.2               74.1                72.2
Contribution to S&T
Policy Formulation     8.0       37.3          54.7              81.4                 5.4
INTERACTION
Interaction Between
Subprograms         34.0       36.0         30.0               77.5                 9.5
Interinstitutional
Interaction         16.0      38.4         45.6               70.7                 8.2
Interaction with Other
S&T Programs         26.3      33.0          40.7              71.5                 4.1
MANAGEMENT
Resource Protection
Against Inflation     28.4      31.7          39.9              58.0                 27.2
Support for Import of
Equipment & Materials   21.0    35.4         43.6               67.2                 5.8
Management Information
System            24.5      41.3          34.2              76.9                  4.3
Monitoring & Evaluation
System            22.5      36.6          40.8              67.6                  5.0
Counterpart Resources
Disbursement        27.3       40.2         32.2               79.5                 4.1
Mechanisms for
Management Decentralization   34.3   36.3          29.4               78.5                 4.1
INSTITUTIONAL DESIGN
Peer Review Evaluation     16.8      31.0         52.2               75.3                 3.5
GTs Performance            7.7       29.4         62.9               80.1                 2.3
GEA Performance           21.0       32.8         46.2               81.4                 3.9
Collegiate Groups
Performance         14.4      35.6          50.0              85.3                  2.8
Source: PADCT Self-Evaluation: Perception from its Users, by Elizabeth Balbachevsky, NUPES/USP.



39
Table 5H- Average Grant Size per Publication
Total Grant  Number of    Average    Average No.    Total No. of    Av. Grant per
Amounts    Projects       Grant     of Publications   Publications   Publication
Subprograms                  (USS Million)                          per Project    (estimated)        (USS)
Research SubDrograms
Biotechnology                       44.1         158      279,114            6.2           979.6          45,018
Chemistry                           56.3         256      219,922           15.8          4,045           13,919
Geosciences                         40.5         15S      256,329           10.9          1,722           23,516
New Materials                       38.5          84      458,333            9.1           764            50,366
Instrumentation                     19.3         175       110,286           2.4           420            45,952
Environment                         15.6          40      390,000           15.1           604            25,828
Subtotal Research Subprograms      214.3         871      246,039           9.8           8,535           25,108
All Project Subprograms            303.7       1,809       167,883           8.7         15,738           19,297
Notes:
1. Include publications in national and intemational joumals, but not theses.
2. Projects include al types, including training, research and R&D projects; given that the productivity of training and R&D projects is not
measured by the rate of publications, the above averages underesfimate the productivity of research programs.
3. Average numbers of publiaions per project are derived from the survey of 705 projects (Table SA).



40
SCIENCE RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT (LOAN 3269-BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 6: Key Studies Funded Under the Project
Study                         Purpose as defined at                             Status                                      Impact of Study
appraisal/redefined
Report on Issues, and     Dcfincd at appraisal. Study to  The study was initiated in 1992 and completed at the end of    This study, likc the compctitivcncss study,
Policies in the S&T Sector   review issucs and policies in the    1993. It was contracted directly to Fundacao Getulio Vargas.  recommcnded a number ol changes in S&T
S&T sector, to bc prepared by a    The work, which involvcd about 30 consultants, was carried    policy, some of whici had already been
small group of high level      out with the participation of an independent group of  implemented or were under
economists, engineers, and     scicntists, economists, and specialists in science policy in  implementation by the time the study was
managcmcnt experts, directly   Brazil and abroad. Thcse experts produced about 40 papers  complcted. In fact, the nced Ior changes in
coordinated by the planning    dealing with the international context, Brazil's scientific and    the S&T policies went through a maturing
departmcilt of SCT and         technological capabilities, the links between science,  process within MCI' and its agencies during
completed six months after loan    technology and the economy, and Brazil's institutions for  the preparation of these studies, which
signing (August 15, 1991). Key   science and technology support. These books have been  provided analytical support to the decision-
issues. include those related to: (i)  published with the finings of this study.      making process.
the long term role of S&T in the
country's economic development;  Main recommendations of the study were: (i) redirect S&T  As pointed out by MCr', the study consists
(ii) improving management,     policies to allow, in the short term, the reorganization and  of papers of unequal qualily, depth, and
organization and decision-making  technological modernization of the industrial sector; and in Lhe  data reliability. IJowever, it is a good basis
in the sector; and (iii) improving   longer term, a continuous process of innovation and  for the overall evaluation of 13razil's S&Tl
the cnvironment for technological  incorporation of new technologies by the productive sector;    system, and for two additional studies
innovationi in the private sector.   (ii) stimulate cooperation between research and productive  which are currently being implemented by
Wheln relevant, the study would    entities in joint applied work; (iii) stimulate private sector  MCT for CCT': (i) "evaluation of S&T
also propose new policies and  investment in R&D; (iv) pass adequate legislation for patents   sector", to analyze the need for reforms in
programs or an agenda for     and intellectual property rights, without howevcr, neglcgling    the S&T system; and (ii) prospective
research and further analysis.  to "Brazil's instruments of technological and industrial policy,  technological study on S&T l or global
The completion of the study was   including tax incentives, tariff protection, patent legislation  competitiveness.
a dated covenant and the Bank  etc.."; (v) give priority to Government research on health,
was to be promptly informed of    education, environment energy, communications and
all actions to be taken based on    transportation; and (vi) research programs in fields such as
the recominendations of the   electronics, new materials and biochemistry should be done
Istudy.                         only in association and cost sharing with industry.



41
Study                           Ptirpose as defined at                               Status                                        Impact of Study
appraisal/redefined
Commission Report on       Dcfincd at appraisal. The study,    A Study of the Competitiveness of the Brazilian Industry  This study, like thc S&T policy study,
Industrial Productivity in    to be carricd out by an       (ECIB) was contracted in 1992 to a consortium of 13        rccommended a number ol changes in S&Tl
Brazil                     independlent commission and      institutions led by UNICAMP (the University of Campinas)   policy, somc of which had alrcady bccn
complcte(l by October 30, 1992,    and UFRJ (the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro). The  implemented or werc under
would review issues related to  study took about 2 years and involved more than 80         implementation by tic time the study was
improving industrial productivity   consultants. The Bank objected to finance the study under the   completed. In fact, need for changes in the
in Brazil. It wvould undertake a  loan, because the procedures used were not in accordance  S&T policies went through a maturing
broad investigation of industrial    with Bank's guidelines (use of a pre-qualification process,  process within MC I and its agencies during
prodicltivity and the technological  conflict of interest for a few mcmbers of the supervision  thc preparation of thesc studies, which
situationi in 13razil. In particular,   commission, lack of Bank's review). To avoid further delays,   provided analytical support to the decision
the stud(y would attempt to isolate  it was agreed that the study would be entirely financed with  making process.
the Imlost imnportant factors    project counterpart funds, provided that the winning proposal
explaining the present quality,  would be revised to take into account the Bank's comments.    As pointed out by MCT, the study is also
technological. and productivity  The final report is the consolidation of about 80 technical  made of papers of unequal (qu.lity, depth,
weakncsses in Brazilian industry.   papers discussed in 33 seminars which involved about 2000  and data reliability. I lowcvcr, it is a good
Recomicildations would be       participants from business, government, and scientific groups.   basis for the global evaluation of Brazil's
directed at all relevant groups --    The coordinating group adopted "an open and pluralist forum    s&r system, and for the two following
management. labor, education,    of debate" approach. The study involved extensive analysis    additional studics which are currently being
researchers, and Government.     of the causes and conditions of current and future        implemcnted by MC]' for CCTl: (I)
The study) was expected to have a   competitiveness of the Brazilian industry (33 industrial sectors  "evaluation of S&T sector", to analyze the
subslantial impact on corporate  were analyzed). The ultimate purpose of the study was to  need for rcforms in thc s& rsystem; and
strategic planning (especially in    formulate strategics for competitive development and to  (ii) prospective technological study on S&Tl
R&t) anitd technology adaptation),  propose instruments and courses of actions for their   for global competitiveness. In addition, the
govcrnmeint policy in science and   implementation. It aimed also at encouraging discussion on    information contained in l.CIB will be a
techniology. research centers    the variables affecting industrial competitiveness. T hc final  basis for the preparation of platlorins
program direction and linkages   report included: (a) a diagnosis of the degrec of         projects to be implemented under the
vilh thc productive sectors, and    competitiveness of Brazilian industry; (b) an identification of   proposed new PAD)CT I111.
on the scicnce and engineering  limitations and potentialities of the Brazilian companies in
curriciliiium in thc education   incorporating competitive practices; and (c) suggestions of
sector.                         strategies, actions and instruments to confront the challenges
of competitiveness. The main recommendations of the study
deal with: (a) the role of the state in S&T in creating
conditions that encourage competition, promote improved
services and better quality products and stimulate innovation;
(b) the nature of R&D policies needed to overcome the
weaknesses of Brazilian firns; (c) the need for the
implementation of an S&T information system; and (d) the
need for the establishment of an S&T sector monitoring and
evaluation system.



42
Study                         Purpose as defined at                             Status                                      Impact of Study
appraisal/redefined
Bio Safety Study:        T'he objectives of this study was    The Biotechnology and Chemistry division of MCT   A workshop on biosafety and bioethics took
International and an     to develop a sound basis for the    contracted this study to an individual consultant. The final  place in October 1991 in Rio de Janciro,
Approach for Brazil      prcparation of bio-safety      report was completed in December of 1992.               with the participation of Fundacao 13io-Rio.
regulations taking into account                                                       The new law and its regulations were
the international experience and                                                      enacted in 1995. Under PA'DCT 11, a
the Brazilian context.                                                                Biosafety consultative committee was setup
within MCT to oversee the application of
the law and accredit centers active in
molecular Biology R&D and the
institutions funded under the program had
______________________________                    to have an in-housc biosafety committee.



43
SCIENCE RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT (LOAN 3269-BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 7A - Project Costs
.Appraisal Estimate           ActualLatest Esutimate
PrQoect Component             Lgca    Foreign    lob          Loa       Forelgn    TtQl
(USS Million)                  (USS Milion)
(a) Research Subprogram:
Biotechnology (SBIO)                      22.80     17.20     40.00        21.80     22.30      44.10
Chemistry and Chemical Engineering (QEQ)  34.00     20.40     54.40        33.90     22.30      56.20
Geosciences and Mineral Technology (GTM)  25.70     12.00     37.70        23.60     16.90      40.50
Instrumentation (SINST)                   14.00      4.80     18.80        14.00      5.30      19.30
Environment Management (CIAMB)            10.50      4.20     14.70        10.40      5.20      15.60
New Materials (SNM)                       14.80     21.20     36.00        14.50     24.00      38.50
Subtotals                 121.80    Z79        201.60 My   Itlt8,      9B0      2I42
(b) Support Subprograms
Science Planning and Management (PGCT)     3.30      1.50      4.80         7.50      0.50       8.00
Science Education (SPEC)                  17.10      4.90     22.00        24.20      4.00      28.20
Science Information (ICT)                  5.80      0.40      6.20         4.30      1.30       5.60
Consumables (SPIN)                         4.40      2.40      6.80         1.60      1.00       2.60
Maintenance (SPM)                          9.20      1.50     10.70         7.00      3.00      10.00
Basic Industrial Technology (TIB)         24.30     12.10     36.40        23.50     11.60      35.10
Subtotals                  61        2280D      A.90        MA         2tA4      8
(c) Studies
Issues and Policies in the S&T Sector      0.40      0.10      0.50         0.40      0.10       0.50
Competiveness Study                        1.50      0.20      1.70         1.70      0.00       1.70
Subtotals                   1.90      0.30       2.20        2.10      0.10       2.20
(d) Administration                                    10230                           0 60      t2.90
Total Project Cost            196.60    103.40    300.00 #     20Q.70    lt8.10      18.80
Notes
1/ Actual local costs do not take into consideration exchange losses



44
SCIENCE RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT (LOAN 3269-BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 7B - Project Financing
Appraisal Estimates                     Actual
Source                 Local Cost Foreign Cost   Total   Local Cost Foreign Cost   Total
(USS million)                     (USS million)
World Bank (1)               46.6        103.4      150.0      21.9       118.10      140.0
Brazilian Govemment         150.0          0.0      150.0     178.8          0.0      178.8
Total     196.6        103.4      300.0      200.7       118.10      318.8
Note:
(1) US$1 0 million was cancelled from the Joan in December 1994, at the Borrower's request.



45
SCIENCE RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT (LOAN 3269-BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits
Neither financial nor economic cost-benefits analyses were done at appraisal. Moreover, due
to the lack of reliable and sufficient quantitative information on project implementation
performance, quantitative economic analysis was not performed as part of this ICR.



46
SCIENCE RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT (LOAN 3269-BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Original  Revised
L.A.   Coven  Status  Fulfill-   Fulfill-
Section   -ant           ment      ment                    Description of Covenant                   Comments
Type            Date      Date
3.01 (a)   5      C                        Carry out Project through SCT with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate scientific,
technological, administrative and fnancial practices and
provisions of PADCT II guidelines.
3.01(b)    ';     C                        Through SCT, maintain as Executive Secretary of PADCT II, a
person with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Bank.
3.01 (c)   5      C                        (i) Sub-projects to be selected by: (a) technical committees;
(ii) Grants to be made on the basis of multi-year financing;
(iii) Amounts of Grants to be adjusted by an official index.
3.01(d)    5      C                        Establish, not later than two months after the Effective Date, a   Metrology
high-level technical advisory committee to appraise and  Committee
recommend approval of metrology sub-projects under Part A  was appointed
(10) of Project.                                       in June 1992
3.01(e)    5      C                        Maintain a Review and Advisory Board (GEA) in charge of
examining and formulating recommendations on the carrying
out of the Project.
3.01(0)    3      C                        Through Treasury, in each FY, make available the fimds  The situation
required to be transferred to Entities for fnancing of sub-  improved
projects within periods of time set forth in the relevant Plano de  significantly
AplicacSo.                                             since 1993.
3.0 1(g)    10    C                        Borrower shall not amend, modifiy or waive any provision of    Adjustments
PADCT II Guidelines and sub-program proposals.         wer agreed
during the
mid-term
review (see
3.06[c]).
3.01 (h)    10    C                        Maintain contractual arrangements with FrNEP and CNPq to
carry out obligations set forth in Sec. 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and
9.08 of General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports and
maintenance).
3.02(a)    10     C                        Grants shall be made on terms whereby Entity
shall obtain, by written contract with Beneficiary or by other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect interests of
Bank and Borrower, including the right to:
3.02     10      C                        Require Beneficiary to carry out and operate sub-projects with
(a-i)                                     due diligence and efficiency in accordance with sound
scientific, technological, administrative and financial practices
and maintain adequate records.
-_ _-           =      __-



47
Original     Revised
L.A.     Covenant            Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Section     Tvpe    Status       Date         Date                  Description of Covenant                     Comments
3.02(a-ii)    10        C                               require that: (a) goods. works and services be
procured in accordance with provisions of Schedule
4 to Agreement; and (b) such goods. works and
services be used exclusively in carrying out sub-
project.
3.02(a4ii)    10        C                               inspect such goods and facilities included in sub-
project, the operation thereof and any relevant
records and documents.
3.02(a-iv)     10        C                              require that: (a) Beneficiary take out and maintain
such insurance against such risks and such amounts;
and (b) such insurance shall cover hazards incident
to acquisition. transportation and delivery of goods.
3.02 (a-v)     10        C                               obtain all such information relating to foregoing and
administration. operations and financial condition of
Beneficiary and to benefits to be derived from the
sub-project; and
3.02(a-vi)     10        C                               suspend or terminate right of Beneficiary to use of
proceeds of Loan upon failure to perform its
obligations under its contract with Entity.
3.02(b)      10        C                               Borrower shall cause Entity to: (i) protect interests
of Bank and Borrower; (ii) enable Borrower to
comply with its obligations under Agreement; and
(iii) achieve purposes of the Project.
3.03        10        C                               Procurement of goods, works and consultants'
services shall be governed by provisions of Schedule
4 to this Agreement
3.04        10        C                               Through SCT: (i) carry out study under Part B(i) of  Study completed at end of
Project; (ii) afford Bank comments on draft; (iii)  1993.
consider Bank's comments; (iv) complete study not
later than six months after date of Agreement; and
(v) promptly inform Bank of all actions based on
study.
3.05        10        C                               (i) Carry out study under Part B(2) of Project   Study completed in 1994.
supervised by independent commission with
experience and qualifications; (ii) afford Bank to
comment on interim and final drafts: (iii) consider
Bank's comments; (iv) complete study by 10/30/92:
and (v) promptly inform Bank of all actions.



48
Original    Revised
L.A.    Covenant           Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Section    Type    Status      Date        Date                 Description of Covenant                   Comments
3.06(a)     10        C                             On date falling on second year after date of  Mid-term review took place
Agreement or when amount of Loan equivalent to    in February 1994.
60% shall have been committed to pay expenditures.
Borrower and Bank shall review progress achieved
in execution of ProjeCt
3.06(b)     10        C                             Furnish to Bank one month prior to review of report,  Last report submnitted to the
which shall include comments of GEA, on progress   Bank in December 1993.
and achievement to objectives of Project by such
date.
3.06(c)     10        C                             Make modifications in PADCT 11 Guidelines and  Last report submitted to the
sub-program objectives, and reallocation of funds  Bank in December 1993.
among sub-programs as a result of review referred to
in 3.06(a) above, in order that objectives of Project
be achieved.
3.07       3         C                             Not later than May 30 of each year during execution
of Project, starting May 30, 1991, prepare and send
to Bank a report on sources and uses of funds and
allocation of funds and expenditures in science and
technology, including PADCT II.
3.08       10        C                             Enable importation of goods under Project to be
carried out in a timely manner, including taking
appropriate action, through SCT, to ensure FESA is
operated in such manner to permit carrying out of
importation.
4.01(a)      I        C                             Through SCT and CAPES, maintain and cause
FINEP and CNPq to maintain separate records and
accounts in accordance with sound accounting
practices.
4.01(b-i)     I       C                              Have records and accounts referred to 4.01(a) above,
including those for Special Accounts, for each FY
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank.
4.01(b-ii)    I        C                             Furnish to the Bank, not later than six months after   All audit reports submitted.
end of each FY. report of audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested.
Covenant Types:                                                  Present Status:
I = Accounts/audits                                              C = Covenant complied with
3 = Flow and utilization of funds
S = Management aspects of the project or executing agency
1O - Project implementation not covered by categories 1-5



49
SCIENCE RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT (LOAN 3269-BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 10: Compliance with Bank Policies
There was significant compliance with applicable Bank Policies.



so
SCIENCE RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT (LOAN 3269-BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs and Missions
A - Planned and Actual
Stage of project cycle      Planned /I              Revised/I                 Actual
Weeks    US$ '000      Weeks    USS '000       Weeks       US$ '000
Preparation to appraisal                                                   14.0
Appraisal                                                                 80.0
Negotiations through                                                       14.9
Board approval
Supervision                                                               147.8
Mid-term Review                                                           27.4
Cornpletion                                _                               16.0        __ _
TOTAL                      _                                              300.1
1/ Not available.
B - Actual per (World Bank) Fiscal Year
Stage of project cycle                              FY                                    Total
88    89    90    91       92     93     94    95    96    97    Staff
Weeks
Prelparation to       2.1   11.9                                                            14.0
appraisal
Appraisal                          80.0                                                     80.0
Negotiations through               14.9                                                     14.9
Board approval
Supervision                                4.9   13.7  65.8  20.0  19.5  22.0   1.9   147.8
Mid-term Review                                                27.4                         27.4
Completion                                                                         16.0    16.0
TOTAL                2.1   11.9  94.9   4.9   13.7  65.8  47.4   19.5    22  17.9   300.1



51
SCIENCE RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT (LOAN 3269-BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
C: Missions
Performance
l                                                     ~~~~~~~~Ra~L 
Stage of       Month   No. of  Days in          Specialized       Devt.   Impi.    Types of Problems Identified
Project Cycle   /Year   Person    Field            Staff Skills2     Objs.    Prog-
I~            s                                                ress__
Identification     6/88        4          7         ES, OS, TM             .
Preparation        6/89        9          1 1      BIT, CP, EC,
ENV, ICT, SR,
l_                          TM                                _   _  _   _   _  _   _  __T
10/89      10         13        BIT, CP, EC,
HS, ICT, GMT,
OS, SR, TM
Appraisal          5/90        3          11        EC,OS, TM
____________      6/90        1         13             CP           .    .._                           .    .     _=
Supervision:           .                                                                                             . .
1           6/91        2          4          OS, TM            I          I
II          9/91        2          9          CSS, TM            1         1
III         12/91        5          7        CP, CSS, EC,        1         2                L; K- F, PR; SP
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _   O S, TM
IV           9/92        5         21       PR, SR, CSS,         1         2                 L;  F;PR SP
_ _ _ _ _       _   _   _   _   _         ~T M_             __                         _      ___
V           4/93        3          6         OS, SR, PR         2          2                L; M; F; PR; SP
VI          10/93        1          3          SR, TM            4                 Limited mission focused on
I____________                                                                             computer systems.
VII          2/94        7         10        EC; OS; PR;         2          2                L; M; F; PR; SP
(Mid-Term                                        SR; MT, TM
Review)                                                              _
VIII         11/94    1             3           DS, TM           25         2      Limited mission focused on
.______ ______________ _______ .____ _ _disbursenent issues.
Technical        5/94       5          6           SR, TM            2         2      Focus: monitoring and evaluation
Assistance
Limited           from      One at  Variable  According to              2         1      Variable, all linked to final stages of
Supervision to   6/94        a time   (usually   needs; included                         project execution. Examples: weak
ensure timely    to                      2-3)    CSS, DS, ICT,                           MIS, inadequate reporting by
project  12/96                      ~~~~OS, PR. and                          agencies, prior review of bidding
project           12/96                             PR , TM                              documents, lack of expediency with
completion                                        primarily, TM                          disbursement, etc.
Completion         from     One at   Usualh'   Primarily TM            2          1      Primarily, need for definition of
01 to    a time      2-3                                              steps (and assignment of
05/97                                                                 responsabilties) required for closing
of project accounts and preparation
._____________   _______   _______                                 _______              of  final  reports.
Completion      | 5197 |   2             20._         EC, OS           2          l i    Collection ofdata for ICR
Ratings: 11HS = minor or no problems; 21S = moderate problems.
2 Specialized Staff Skills: BIT = basic industrial technology specialist; CP = chemical physicist, CSS  computer systems specialist; DS
disbursement specialist; EC = economist; ES = education specialist; ENV = environment specialists; HS = health specialist; ICT = science
and technology informaton specialist; IDS = institutional development specialist; GMT = geosciences and mineral technology specialist, MT =
meteorologist; OS = operations specialist; PR = procurement specialists; SR = science research specialist; TM = task management
3 Types of Problems: L = legal; M = management performance; F = availability of funds; PR = procurement; SP = studies progress
4 Limited supervision mission.
s Limited supervision mission.



52
SCIENCE RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT (LOAN No. 3269-BR)
iMPLEMENTATiON COMPLETION REPORT
Table 12: Brazil's Ministry of Science and Technology, Budget Execution
In Million of 1995 Reais
Sources                  1985 1986  1987   1988   1989   1990  1991 1992  1993   1994   1995
PADCT                     17.0  52.2   44.1   62.3   56.0   83.4 101.6  28.6   45.7   33.0   55.2
FINEP/FNDCT              249.2 350.0  491.4  410.4  309.8  231.6 143.6 171.0  326.6  311.5  289.0
CNPQ                     251.8 288.8  404.9  497.0  561.8  595.9 456.2 272.4  542.8  644.9  599.1
Subtotal             518.0 691.0  940.4  969.7  927.6  910.9 701.4 472.0  915.1  989.4  943.3
Other Institutes         149.5 120.0  159.6  155.7  164.2  176.0  80.9  68.0   89.9  122.2  139.4
Central Admin. $ Other    11.6  15.9   32.1   30.2   28.6   20.6  18.2  18.3   15.8   24.5   23.7
Total MCT             679.1 826.9 1,132.1 1,155.6 1,120.4 1,107.4 800.5 558.3 1,020.8 1,136.1 1,106.3
1,200.0
1,000.0
800.0
600.0|: :     * : 
400.0
4   .- \PADCT
200.0                                                           - 0- ;:: -iS izy j7>| -   FINEP/FNDCT
8 -CNPQ
O.o                                     ...... ... Subtotal
1985  1986  1987  1968  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995 -        Total MCT



53
SCIENCE RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT (LOAN No. 3269-BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 13: Selected National Indicators of Science and Technology
1990    1991     1992      1993     1994     1995
S&T Expenditures by Source of Funding (1995 US$
Million)
Federal Government                                    2584.3  2397.0   1826.1  2582,5  2587.2   2807.0'
State Governments                                      497.2   637.4   616.4    866.3    760.6   1300.0
Public Enterprises                                       NA       NA       NA    396.6   453.0    550.0
Private Enterprises                                      NA       NA       NA     857.6   1194.2   1300.0
TOTAL                                           3081.5  3034.4  2442.5  4703.0  4995.0   5957.0
S&T Expenditures as % of GDP                            0.70     0.69     0.56     0.77     0.77      0.88
Scientists and Researchers as % of Workforce
Scientists and Enginers                                NA       NA       NA       NA       NA    49,000
% of Workforce                                                                                       0.07
Source: MCT National Indicators of Science and Technology, 1990-95
1995 values include an estimate of US$350 million in wages of federal university researchers; preceding years do not
include such an estimate.






55
Appendix:
Summary of Borrower Contribution
This section is a summary of the Final Evaluation Report of PADCT II, prepared by
the Ministry of Science and Technology (MCT). That report, published by and
available from the MCT, is also in the World Bank official project files. It is
comprised of complete data from several substantial quantitative and qualitative
assessments of the project, plus analyses ofproject performance and impact. One of
the highlights of the report is an impact evaluation using bibliometric indicators; this
evaluation was contracted out by the MCT to SRI International, a US consulting firm.
This section, prepared by the Bank, provides a summary of the MCT's Final
Evaluation Report of PADCTII. The MCTfull report should be consultedfor further
details on any of the conclusions summarized in this Appendix, as well as for access
to all tables and graphs on which are based the conclusions here presented.



56
A.    Comments on Parts I and II
1.    There are no major disagreements between the assessment in Parts I and II of the ICR and this
Borrowers Report. Both are based upon the same background information. This summary will highlight
some of the conclusions of the previous sections, as well as present conclusions from additional evaluations
of the science and technology sector in Brazil, particularly as revealed by citations data on the scientific
outputs of the six sectoral research areas of the project (Biotechnology, Chemistry and Chemical
Engineering, Geoscience and Mineral Technology, Instrumentation, New Materials and Environmental
Sciences). These data also establish a baseline for the subprograms to be supported under PADCT III.
2.    The PADCT II budget. The project's budget, originally set at US$ 300 million, was reduced to
US$ 290 million in December 1994. PADCT II contracted US$ 296.1 million. Of this amount, US$ 282.9
million was allocated to 1809 projects (95.5 %), and $ 13.2 million was for administrative purposes, (4.5 %).
The projects required additional funds (US$ 4.4 million) to cover local expenses not originally anticipated.
By the end of 1997, total disbursement for projects reached US$ 281.1 million, 99.3% of contracted funds.
All sectoral research subprograms disbursed above 95 % of the committed funds. The lowest disbursement
occurred among some of the support subprograms: Maintenance of Scientific Equipment (87 %) and Science
Technology Information (93 %). Approximately US$ 22.0 million was internalized from the total (revised)
loan amount. Administration utilized an additional US$ 3.3 million to establish a Monitoring and Evaluation
System for PADCT II and III, and to prepare PADCT III, since all services and consultants (national and
international) were paid with PADCT II administration funds. The average cost of the PADCT II projects
was US$ 156,100--approximately twice the average size of PADCT I projects.
3.    Disbursements of Funds from MCT to Agencies and the Effects of Inflation. The total
disbursement of funds from MCT to agencies amounted to US$ 318. million. This amount is US$ 24.1
million more than the budgeted disbursement. The additional funds, made available by the Treasury, were
used to compensate for the severe inflation which prevailed during the first four years of the project and
diminished the real values of the project grant awards. Approximately 10% of the funds disbursed from
MCT for local administration were not ultimately disbursed. The effects of inflation were concentrated in the
counterpart funds (although a small loss was also due to the differences in the exchange rates when funds
were internalized from the CESA account). MCT disbursed to agencies US$ 188. 3 million for local
expenses, (excluding administration) to be allocated by agencies to beneficiaries. FINEP, which had
mechanisms to protect the real value of its own counterpart funds, was the least affected by inflation; it lost
about US$ 3.3 million due to inflation. CNPq had no means to protect counterpart funds and lost close to
US$ 14 million. CAPES mitigated the loss by using funds from other programs available at the Ministry of
Education (FNDE - National Fund for Education). Although inflation dropped sharply after July 1994,
delays in the process of contracting and disbursement of funds for projects were still partially responsible for
further losses due to inflation. Inflation did not affect the disbursement of funds to contracted projects,
because the Treasury provided additional funds to correct the difference. A small discrepancy between the
amount of funds contracted and disbursed is due to minor cancellations in projects which were unable to
disburse funds by the deadline for the closing of the PADCT II loan (December 31, 1996).
4.    Improved Disbursement Performance in the Last Two Years of the Project. During the fiscal
1995 and 1996 PADCT II recorded its best disbursement performance (average of US$ 80 million/year). The
amounts of contracted funds increased, but, more importantly, the ratio of contracted to disbursed funds
increased for all sub-programs. This overall improvement was due to several things. First, inflation declined
to one hundredth of the rate prevailing during 1991 to 1994. Second, the disbursement of counterpart funds



57
from the National Treasury to the MCT improved. Third, the performance of the agencies also improved.
Fourth, the experience then accumulated by project management was used to address bottlenecks with
expediency and timeliness. Finally, the new structure established for PADCT at MCT (within a Special
Programs Advisory Office), included a management unit to deal exclusively with administrative matters,
such as contracting and disbursement, which previously were very slow processes.
5.    All PADCT Funds Were Disbursed. PADCT II was formally closed on December 31, 1996,
although disbursement of a limited amount of counterpart funds for ongoing projects, as well as for
monitoring and evaluation and preparation of PADCT III, took place in 1997. The Project succeeded in
disbursing all loan funds by the (revised) closing date, despite the difficulties it faced, particularly in its early
stages of execution.
6.    Regional Considerations. Nearly 68 % of the funds went to beneficiaries in the South East region, a
region that includes the major states of Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais. This occurred for many
reasons. First, under the rules of peer review, projects compete freely and the best win, irrespective of
geography. No attempt to look for a more equitable regional distribution of funds was undertaken by
PADCT II. Moreover, there exists a regional imbalance of potential project beneficiaries both with respect to
the number of institutions and the "critical mass of S&T personnel" working in less developed regions.
Worsening this, the best professionals tend to move, or to be attracted by the best institutions, where they
find a better service infrastructure, more funds, a better environment for scientific and technological
interaction and application of the results of their work. This situation is not unique to PADCT. Although
clear links are thought to exist between S&T capacity and the overall economic well being of a region (in
Brazil and worldwide), it is obvious that the socio-economic development imbalance among regions in Brazil
will not be resolved in the short term. In addition, PADCT is not the only source of funds for S&T in Brazil-
-it represents less than 10% of the federal government investment in the sector. Among this other 90% of
investments are programs to fund region-specific S&T initiatives. Notwithstanding, the rules of PADCT III
will help reduce this imbalance, without sacrificing the of quality of the projects funded. PADCT III will
strengthen the interaction between the activities of PADCT and those of the so-called "FAPs- Funda,ces de
Amparo a Pesquisa", increasing complementary and avoiding duplications in S&T investments.
B.    Supplementary Assessment of Project Performance
7.     Ongoing Evaluation of PADCT II. The evaluation of PADCT II is not still complete; several
evaluation initiatives (such as the PADCT NET, an on-line data collection effort) are still in progress. The
shortcomings of PADCT II, pointed out by several reviewers, particularly GEA, have prompted this
continued effort. It has also been factored substantially in the design of the new operation (PADCT III),
which has a specific subcomponent to deal with M&E and information management. Despite the noted M&E
shortcomings of PADCT II, a broad array of ex-port evaluation efforts were developed with PADCT II funds,
particularly after the Project's mid-term review. They are the basis of this report. PADCT NET is
operational but has not yet accumulated significant information on the outcomes of PADCT II to allow
specialists to make a comprehensive, qualitative cost/benefits analysis. Further evaluations will be
undertaken as the necessary data become available.
8.    Evaluation Methodologies for PADCT II. Since the mid-term review of PADCT II, the task of
evaluating PADCT II has been high on the agenda. A first report, presented at the 12th GEA meeting, focused
on administrative performance and flow of funds and sought to determine investments at the subprogram
level desegregated for science, technology, human resources and services. It also attempted to determine
S&T infrastructure investments based upon importation of equipment for laboratories designed to provide
specialized services. In 1995, a survey was sent to the coordinators of 1000 PADCT II projects. More than



58
70 % responded. The results of this second effort were analyzed in Part I and II of this ICR. In the future, we
will do a more comprehensive cost benefit analysis of PADCT II. We will not repeat here to the assessment
of PADCT II subprograms (section J of Part I of this report), as we essentially agree with the conclusions
presented there.
9.    Assessment of PADCT II by Project Participants and Beneficiaries. An additional survey of
PADC T II participants and beneficiaries drew about 800 responses. (There was no acceptable way to control
for survey bias due to self-selection of respondents). In general, respondents deemed:
*  PADCT was a successful program overall; no single item in the questionnaire was badly
evaluated by the majority of the respondents.
*  The program outputs (S&T infrastructure, human resources training, scientific and technological
outputs) constituted the best evaluated dimension of all; PADCT II was regarded as
"'satisfactory"' by more than 60% of respondents.
*  More than 75% of respondents gave the same favorable evaluation for the two phases of
PADCT; of those who changed the evaluation from PADCT I to PADCT II, most (3 to 1) viewed
II as more successful than I.
10.   Specific Aspects of PADCT II. Individual issues were rated as follows:
*  "Connection with information networks" was deemed "poor" by 43% of respondents, although
progress from noted from PADCT I.
* International cooperation and structures for university-enterprise cooperation were deemed less
than satisfactory by 65% of respondents. In the former item, only 35% of respondents considered
the PADCT's performance satisfactory.
*  Comparing PADCT I with PADCT II, respondents were more willing to acknowledge better
performance in the support for university-enterprise cooperation (nine to one) than in the
international cooperation (only four to one).
*  Interdisciplinary activities and the Program's contribution to S&T policy formulation were
deemed satisfactory respectively by 57% and 54% of respondents.
*  Considering the amount of intra-program interaction and the level of coordination and interaction
with other S&T programs, respondents tended to assess PADCT's performance as poor or
regular.
*  Regarding external interactions, the respondents felt little improvement had occurred between
PADCT I & II.
11.   Assessment of Program Management. Not all areas of PADCT II's management performance was
regarded as satisfactory. But respondents acknowledged improvements over PADCT I, especially regarding
the effects of inflation (96% said it improved) and support for importing scientific equipment and materials
and monitoring and evaluation system. The item with the worst evaluation was "mechanisms for
management decentralization": only 29% of respondents considered its performance "satisfactory".
Disbursement of counterpart funds was also a question that raised concerns among PADCT users: Only 32%
of respondents evaluated PADCT II "satisfactory" on this item.
12.   Performance of Executive and Peer Review Bodies. Regarding the performance of GTs, CAs and
the Executive Secretary, the majority of respondents ranked them as satisfactory. However, executive bodies
(GTs and Executive Secretary) were better evaluated (about 64% "satisfactory") than those related with peer-
' The questionnaire asked respondents to rank PADCT perform having in mind three alternatives: "poor", "regular" and
"satisfactory".



59
review and advisory tasks (CAs and GEA: about 52% "satisfactory"). Regarding the peer-review process,
even though 50% of our respondents ranked it "satisfactory", there are some indications of concern with this
dimension.
13.   The Quality of Peer Review. A last point mentioned frequently by the respondents was the quality
of the peer review procedures adopted by PADCT. Again there was a strong relation between this question
and a concern about regional equity policies informally adopted by all Brazilian federal agencies for S&T
support. Brazil's strong regional and institutional inequalities in S&T development seemed to be a general
concern. Of the total, 13% of respondents affiliated with every kind of institution expressed specific worries
about this issue. However, there is a clear apprehension among researchers from the upper academic strata
related to the fairness of the peer-review system, that in some circumstances, merit was sacrificed to regional
or equity considerations. Whereas only 2% of respondents belonging to the lower academic strata has
referred to the last problem, 10% of respondents from the upper academic strata voiced this issue. On the
other hand, while 10% of respondents affiliated with the lower academic strata expressed concerns about to
the quality of the peer-review process, 24% of the respondents linked to the upper academic strata referred to
this problem in their suggestions.
14.   Priority Concerns Among Respondents. The issue causing most concern among our respondents
was the stability of research fund disbursements. When asked to list their own priority concerns, 24% of the
suggestions are related to this topic. Also of concern were:
*  The complaints related to the agencies' performance--most of which refer to delays in
disbursements.
*  More that one third of respondents suggested financial support for new research areas not
contemplated under PADCT II; this reflects the country's economic environment at the time of
the implementation of PADCT II (as compared to that at the time of its preparation).
*  Many respondents simply wrote: "improve monitoring or evaluation" without saying how it
should be carried out; nevertheless, some respondents stressed that the Executive Secretary and
the GTs should monitor the project outputs and reward successful ones, by securing their
continuity.
15.   Technological Outputs. PADCT's effect on technological outputs was a concern for 19% of the
respondents. However, this issue was strongly influenced by the respondent's institutional affiliation. Those
belonging to an academic environment emphasized that PADCT projects should result in more technological
products. Respondents affiliated with non-academic environments tend to stress that PADCT should be more
client oriented, setting its agenda in accordance with private sector interests. Among the non-academic
sector, 19.8% of respondents gave this answer, whereas in the academic sector only 8% worded this concern
similarly.
16.   Similarities Between GEA and Participant Assessments. A review of GEA reports shows
significant correlation between this group's concerns about PADCTs institutional design and performance,
and those expressed by survey respondents. Most of the time, GEA's agenda dealt with inter-institutional
interaction under PADCT, its monitoring and evaluation system, the implementation of peer-review
procedures, the support for importing scientific equipment and material, the timing of fund disbursement
(including counterpart resources) and protecting resources from inflation. These are the concerns expressed
by the respondents. Our analysis supports the GEA's efficient role as an advisory and review body. It seems
clear that in performing this role, GEA actually achieved an organic link with the S&T community,
especially with those more centrally oriented toward PADCT. This conclusion is important, since we do not
have any other instrument designed to monitor the GEA's performance. GEA was a major innovation in the



60
PADCT's institutional design. It was conceived as an independent advisory body with the specific task of
reviewing PADCT procedures, examining the significance and quality of PADCT outputs and evaluating the
prograim management. As we saw in this study, there are strong evidence that GEA performed these tasks
properly. And in doing so, it actually gave PADCT a feedback channel absent in all other public programs
that support to S&T in Brazil.
C.    Impact Evaluation using Bibliometic Analysis
17.   Bibliometric Analysis of ISI Data. The fourth component of the PADCT II evaluation included a
bibliometric analysis of project performance based upon the scientific outputs of approximately 12,000
scientists funded by PADCT II. The database subsumes staff teams of all projects funded under the
subprograms mentioned, without any selection for the experience of the groups or academic level of the
scientists. The scientific performance of the 12,000 scientists was tracked for the period of 1981 to 1996. It is
known that PADCT I started in 1985 and subprograms such as New Materials and Environmental Sciences
were included only in PADCT II. International experts Robert Coward and Roland Bardon, from SRI
International, carried out the bibliometric analysis.
18.    The Citation Index. The analysis of publications by PADCT-funded researchers conducted by SRI
International includes comparisons of their impact with that of other Brazilian publications and with
international standards. It was based upon the publication data appearing in the citation index databases of
the Institute for Scientific Information (ISI), the most widely used database for bibliometric analysis. ISI
indexes individual papers appearing in more than 6,000 journals in all disciplines drawn from all over the
world. While this is a relatively small proportion of the estimated 50,000 journals being published, the
coverage includes the most widely cited peer-reviewed journals, both national and international, and
represents a very high proportion of scientific papers that will be referred to by other publications.
19.   Cross-Field and International Comparisons. Additional data was acquired from ISI in the form of its
deluxe version of National Science Indicators on Diskette, 1981-1996. This version includes international data
on the sub-fields used to classify the Brazilian articles, making it possible to develop comparative analyses.
Searches of the Brazilian database were done for each of the seven PADCT subprograms mentioned previously
matching the ISI-formatted version of MCT's input narnes against the all-author table in the ISI Brazilian
database. An estimate of the prospective error rate derived from the implementation of the methodology
described was considered to be on the order of 10 percent or less. Aside from the very small field of Science
Planning and Management, there is no reason to believe that the error rate is other than randomly distributed
across the fields and, given the fact that the analysis was being conducted at the level of groups of researchers
and not individuals, it should any bias on the results.
20.   The results were highly favorable in terms of the productivity and impact of publications by
PADCT-funded researchers.
* While the average number of publications per year for Brazil as a whole doubled between the
initial and third period, most of the PADCT-funded researchers tripled their average number of
publications.
* The two largest fields, Chemistry/Chemical Engineering and Biotechnology, showed the lowest
gain at 2.3 times the annual publication rate: not surprising, given the large baseline number.
o Except for the small program in Science Planning and Management, all of the programs show an
increase in each of the three time periods. All of the PADCT-funded fields showed an increase in
the percentage of expected citations accumulated between the 1986-91, PADCT I period , and
the 1992 - 96 PADCT II period, except for New Materials and Science Planning and



61
Management.
*  Only two fields-Chemistry/Chemical Engineering and Instrumentation-followed the steadily
increasing pattern over all three researched periods.
* Three fields-Environmental Sciences, Chemistry/Chemical Engineering, and New Materials-
ended the time-series with a higher percentage of expected citations than Brazil overall.
* The data, when restricted to only those papers that were cited at least once, display similar
patterns and trends, although the ratios of final to initial period are generally not as high.
* Three scientific fields --Environmental Sciences, Geosciences, and Biotechnology-- show a
similar pattern of dipping from the pre-PADCT period of 1981-1985 to a low in 1986-91 during
PADCT I, and then rising in the last of the three time periods.
21.   Interpretation of the Data. One explanation for the trends and patterns exhibited by the data is that
the PADCT researchers were relatively accomplished and produced publications with nearly average impact
in relatively low impact journals in the pre-PADCT period. With PADCT funding, their research may have
assumed a more international character and enabled them to publish in higher impact (average citations per
paper) journals in which they were initially newcomers and underachievers in terms of attracting citations.
Over time, their work may have attracted more international attention, so the last period shows the up-tack in
the proportion of expected citations. Regardless, publishing in high level journals is a growing competitive
task. The seventh field, Science Planning and Management, is the one exception, showing a consistent
decline from a position of eminence; Brazilian papers in this area are generally under cited internationally,
although this group, small as it is, was above expectations for two of the three time-series periods, to less
than 60 percent of expected citations. Moreover, most of the papers in this relatively small group are in the
social or related sciences. Typically, these fields are quite parochial in terms of their topics of concern and
their methodologies and do not attract a large number of international citations. While the numbers involved
are small, the fact that the researchers papers were above the expected citation rate to begin with suggests
that they were unusually international in their efforts prior to their PADCT funding. It may be that PADCT
focused their research on local topics that were less likely to attract international citations than their earlier
work. Thus, there was a decline in their impact internationally, but this may not necessarily mean a decline
in the overall quality of their work.
21.   Time Series Analysis Results. With the data grouped by five year rolling average periods, four of
the seven programs have a consistently higher impact than Brazilian publications overall, and generally
favorable trends, again with the exception of Science Planning and Management. After an initial decline,
Environmental Science has leveled, and Geoscience and Mineral Technology largely parallels the overall
Brazilian pattern. In summary, the data on publication productivity and impact of all PADCT-funded
researchers show generally favorable trends during the past 16 years and gains that exceed Brazilian science
as a whole, with the exception of Science Planning and Management.
22.    Scientific Field Comparisons A second type of analysis compares the productivity and impact of
three groups of researchers by field. PADCT-funded researchers comprise the primary group. Data were
compiled from an analysis produced by both the ISI Xcite and National Science Indicators on Diskette
programs that provide a rolling five-year window showing the impact of a collection of papers. This was
done for roughly the 40 most significant fields (in terms of cited papers), as well as a few smaller fields
closely related to PADCT program themes. The collections included PADCT researchers, Brazilian
researchers overall, and world researchers in each of the fields. The resulting composite comparative figures
for each sub-field clearly show the positive impact of PADCT II funding within each group over the full span
of the 1981-1996 period.
23.    Overall Impact. Of 49 fields analyzed, a remarkable 44 show an upward trend in publication impact



62
in the final three to 5 years. Many move up over a longer period, but there are oscillations and down periods
in others. There are 25 fields in which the PADCT-funded researchers' papers consistently have a higher
impact than papers in the field from Brazil overall for the entire 16-year period, while 7 are consistently
higher in impact than the world overall in the field. Four are higher than both Brazil and the world-
Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Instrumentation/Measurement, Metallurgy, and Optics/Acoustics. In
general, the data suggest that PADCT-funded research output are of generally high quality in the Brazilian
context, and that the support generally increased the impact and visibility of the researchers' work in the
international context.
24.   Variation by Field. It was assumed that fields where PADCT scientists published the most were the
ones where the impact of the program was greatest. Among the fields shown, 19 concentrate 82.3% of the
cited publications. In rolling five-year windows, figures corresponding to the citations per-paper of PADCT
II funded projects, Brazil and the world in these 19 fields are shown in Annex 2. The fields selected were the
ones that accumulated at least 100 (or close to) cited publications in the period. All these fields show either a
consistent upward trend in the period, or at least in the last period which corresponded to PADCT II, with the
exception of the multidisciplinary field. The impact of scientific performance of the PADCT II-funded
researchers in these fields was consistently above the Brazilian impact in the field or at least in the last period
(PADCT II) with the exception of the field: of General Medical Research. Compared to the world, however,
only six out the 19 show the mentioned behavior: chemistry, earth science, environmental ecology, inorganic
and nuclear chemistry, material science and physics. There are fields where the presence of PADCT is
modest (the number of cited papers is less than 50), but the performance is extremely positive, being
consistently above the world' s performance. This is true for electrical and electronics engineering,
entomology, instrumentation /measurement, optics and acoustics. It is difficult to assess whether the modest
presence of PADCT II in these successful fields results from a small critical mass of scientists involved in the
field, or rather because just the very best ones are funded by the program, or a combination of these factors.
25    'Comparing Brazil Internationally. The 19 fields were investigated further by comparing Brazil's
overall citations in these fields to seven selected countries: Spain, Peoples Republic of China, India, South
Korea, Mexico, Argentina, and Egypt. All the countries selected have either economic or social similarities
with the Brazilian developmental process. Spain is the best reference for Brazil among developed countries
in terns of achievements that can be reached on a short-to-medium-term basis. South Korea and Peoples
Republic of China are countries experiencing acute transformations in recent decades with success in many
respects but also with similar difficulties parallel development process parallel to Brazil's. India has long
tradition in scientific research but social problems even more acute than Brazil, Egypt and Brazil have in
many areas, particularly agriculture. In this comparison, G7 countries were not included because the realities
in these countries in terms of the critical mass involved in SC&T are not comparable to any of these
countries. The 19 fields allowed a classification in six more general areas: physics, chemistry, medical
research, earth sciences, biology, and agriculture. The results showed that:
Physics shows the best relative performance. The total citations in physics for the most recent
five year period considered corresponds to more the 10 % of the total citations of the country
overall. Brazil lags behind Spain, India and Peoples Republic of China in physics and related
fields. Brazil is a close fourth to South Korea in the areas of spectroscopy, instrumentation,
analytical sciences, applied physics and material sciences.
>  Medical research has the second best relative performance: close to 5000 citations in the sub-
fields considered. Brazil is second to Spain and above all the other countries in this field and
also second to Spain in the related areas of pharmacology and toxicology with practically the
same number of citations as India and Peoples Republic of China. Chemistry included many sub-
fields, in which Brazil's best performance is in the area of Biochemistry and Biophysics, while it



63
is third to Spain and India.
*  In physical chemistry/chemical physics, Brazil lags behind Spain, India and the Peoples Republic
of China and is very close to South Korea. In the other related sub-fields, the performance of
Brazil is less relevant.
*  In biology, although the number of citations is smaller than the three previously mentioned areas,
the relative position of Brazil to other countries in the sub-fields is very positive: second to Spain
in molecular biology and genetics (critical areas for biotechnology) and third to Spain and India
in microbiology, with a number of citation very close to India in the last five year period (1992-
1996) considered.
*  Earth science and related fields show performance similar to that of biology, although the
number of citations is smaller than that of biology: Brazil is third to Spain and India in
Environment and Ecology (very close to South Korea and Peoples Republic of China), and fourth
to Spain, India and Peoples Republic of China in earth sciences. Brazil lags behind Spain, China
and India in agriculture related sub-fields.
27.   Conclusion from the Bibliometric Analysis. The data clearly indicate Brazil significantly
increased its performance during the last 15 years, and how PADCT II possibly influenced this performance.
*  The number of citations increased by a factor of 3.3, and citations per paper by 60 %.
*  From 1981 to 1995, Brazil increased the total number of papers by a factor of 2.8 However ,the
number of world publications also increased during this period . Nonetheless, Brazil nearly
doubled its percentage of world publications in this period, from 0.43% in 1981 to 0.80 % in
1995. (Fewer than 20 countries contribute above 1.0%.)
*  The growth of publications in Brazil is 1.57 times higher than average growth for the world.
  The only field where Brazilian performance compared negatively to the world's was in
Molecular Biology.
28.   Technological Performance. The results of the analysis of patent data2 is less impressive. From
1984 to 1993, data from the World Industrial Property Organization (WIPO) show the number of patent
applications to INPI by locals in Brazil remained fairly constant, at around 2,000 to 2,400 per year. During
the same period the number of patent applications by non-residents increased from 4.6 thousand to 14.4
thousand. Even if this index is better than countries such as Mexico, Egypt and Chile, Brazil lags behind
when compared to South Korea (which performs close to Brazil according to several indicators calculated for
a number of fields). The number of patent applications by locals in South Korea in 1983 was close to Brazil:
1.9 thousand. Ten years later this statistics increased more than tenfold, (21.4 thousand).This growth parallels
the application by non-residents, which increased from 6.6 thousand in 1983 to 25.8 thousand in 1993. The
work by Albuquerque shows that the number of patents granted by INPI to national during the period of 1981
to 1995 was fairly constant, being on the average 250 per year. The number of patents granted to Brazilians
by USPTO in the same period was as low as 30 per year on the average, although it shows some upward
trend in the 20's. The challenge of PADCT III is to influence positively these trends, and thus help translate
good quality science outcomes into technological innovation.
2Albuquerque E. 1997. Domestic Patents of Brazilian Residents (1981-1995).



