Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3269 BR
(Science Research and Training Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 15, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3269 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 15, 1991, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Account Bank" means the bank referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
"Beneficiary" means any legal entity carrying out a Sub-project;
 
(c)
"CAPES" means Coordenacao de Aperfeicoamento de Pessoal de Nivel Superior 
(Coordinating Agency for Training of High Level Personnel), an agency of the 
Borrower's Ministry of Education;
(d)
"Central Bank" means Banco Central do Brasil, the Borrower's Central 
Bank;
(e)
"Contractual Arrangements" means any of the arrangements to be entered 
between the Borrower, through SCT, and, respectively, FINEP and CNPQ pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 3.01 (h) of the Loan Agreement;
(f)
"CNPQ" means Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cientifico e 
Tecnologico (National Council for Scientific and Technological Development), a public 
foundation under the supervision of SCT;
(g)
"CESA" means the Special Account referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement;
(h)
"Cruzeiros" means the currency of the Borrower; 
 
(i)
"Entity" means CNPQ or FINEP or the Borrower acting through CAPES in 
respect of the financing of a Sub-project;
(j)
"FESA" means the Special Account referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement;
(k)
"FINEP" means Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos - FINEP (Agency for 
Financing Studies and Projects), a public enterprise under the supervision of SCT;
(l)
"FSRMM" means Adicional ao Frete para a Renovacao da Marinha Mercante - 
AFRMM, the Borrower's Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine 
established by Decree-Law No. 1142, of December 30, 1970, as amended to December 31, 
1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the opinion of the Bank, may 
substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988;
(m)
"GEA" means Grupo Especial de Acompanhamento, the review and advisory 
board referred to in Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement;
(n)
"Grants" means the grants to be provided by the Borrower, through the 
Entities, for financing Sub-projects;
(o)
"PADCT II" means the Borrower's Programa de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento 
Cientifico e Tecnologico (Second Support Program for Scientific and Technological 
Development) established by Resolution No. RC 2/84, dated April 27, 1984, of the 
Borrower's Conselho Cientifico e Tecnologico (Science and Technology Council);
(p)
"PADCT II Guidelines" means the Documento Basico (Basic Document), 
approved by Portaria No. 114, of July 12, 1990, of SCT, as amended by Portaria No. 19 
of February 1, 1991, of SCT, and the Manual Operativo (Operating Manual), approved by 
the Board of the Executive Secretariat of PADCT II on November 14, 1990;
(q)
"Plano de Aplicacao" means the annual plan agreed to at the beginning of 
each fiscal year between SCT and the Treasury for release of funds required for the 
carrying out of Sub-projects;
(r)
"Prior Project" means the Science and Technology Project described in 
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, dated February 6, 1985, between the Borrower and the 
Page  3
Bank;
(s)
"SCT" means Secretaria de Ciencia e Tecnologia da Presidencia da 
Republica, the Borrower's Secretariat for Science and Technology;
(t)
"Special Account" means either of the accounts to be opened and 
maintained pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, 
unless otherwise required by the context;
(u)
"Sub-program" means each of the programs of action for the areas listed 
in Part A of the Project, as detailed in the corresponding Sub-program Proposal;
(v)
"Sub-program Proposal" means a proposal in respect of a Sub-program 
setting forth, inter alia, the rationale, overall goals and technical details of 
Sub-projects, as well as associated resource allocations, model Sub-project budgets 
and special criteria, procedures and mechanisms for Sub-project management;
(w)
"Sub-project" means a project, under a Sub-program, to be carried out by 
a Beneficiary, partially financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and
(x)
"Treasury" means Departamento do Tesouro Nacional, an agency of the 
Borrower's Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning. 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred and fifty 
million dollars ($150,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, this special deposit account (CESA) shall be made 
exclusively to meet expenditures in Cruzeiros incurred in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and
services required to carry out the Project and to be financed by the Bank pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above.
(c)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
thereafter in a bank acceptable to the Bank (the Account Bank) a special deposit 
account in dollars on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, this special account (FESA) 
shall be made exclusively to meet expenditures in currencies other than Cruzeiros 
incurred in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required to 
carry out the Project and to be financed by the Bank pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
(d)
Deposits into, and payments out of, CESA and FESA shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. The Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank each month
certified statements of CESA and FESA.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
Page  4
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on 
the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify  the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. FINEP is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Page  5
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through SCT with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate scientific, technological, administrative and financial practices and the 
provisions of the PADCT II Guidelines, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower, through SCT, shall maintain as Executive Secretary of PADCT 
II a person with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
(c)
The Borrower shall, in accordance with the provisions of the PADCT II 
Guidelines and the Sub-program Proposals, cause: (i) Sub-projects to be selected: (A) 
by technical committees consisting mainly of members of the Borrower's science and 
business communities; (B) on a competitive basis; and (C) taking in due consideration 
the need to strengthen existing centers of excellence; (ii) Grants to be made on the 
basis of multi-year financing and in amounts consistent with the parameters for 
minimum and average amounts of the Grants; and (iii) the amounts of the Grants to be 
adjusted by an official index to be determined by the Borrower in order to achieve the 
objectives of the Sub-projects.
(d)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (c) above, the Borrower 
shall: (i) establish, not later than two months after the Effective Date, a high-level 
technical advisory committee, composed of experts with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank, to appraise and recommend the approval of metrology 
Sub-projects under Part A (10) of the Project; and (ii) require the proposals for such 
Sub-projects to include information on, and such appraisals and recommendations to 
take into account: (A) the availability of technical staff by the proposed Beneficiary 
in adequate numbers and with the required qualifications; and (B) the strategies and 
actions to be taken (including improvement of management and recruitment and training 
of qualified staff) to improve the quality of the services provided by the proposed 
Beneficiary. 
(e)
The Borrower undertakes to maintain, with functions and other terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, a review and advisory board (GEA) in charge of 
examining and formulating
recommendations on the carrying out of the Project.
(f)
The Borrower shall cause the Entities, in accordance with the provisions 
of the PADCT II Guidelines and Sub-program Proposals, to act as the Borrower's 
agencies for providing Grants.
For this purpose, without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the 
Borrower, through the Treasury, shall, in each fiscal year, make available the funds, 
either originating from the proceeds of the Loan or from the Borrower's budget, 
required to be transferred to the Entities for the financing of Sub-projects, in 
accordance with, and within the periods of time set forth in, the relevant Plano de 
Aplicacao.
(g)
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, 
modify or waive any provision of the PADCT II Guidelines and Sub-program Proposals.
(h)
The Borrower shall maintain contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the 
Bank, with FINEP and CNPQ (the Contractual Arrangements) for purposes of governing the 
respective  participation of FINEP and CNPQ in the execution of the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the PADCT II Guidelines, such 
arrangements to provide, inter alia, that FINEP and CNPQ shall carry out the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports and maintenance) in respect of their respective participation in 
the carrying
out of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, Grants shall be made on terms whereby the Entity shall obtain, by written 
contract with the Beneficiary or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to 
protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including the right to:
(i)
require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the Sub-project 
with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
Page  6
scientific, 
technological, administrative and financial 
practices and to maintain adequate 
records;
 
(ii)
require that: (A) the goods, works and services to be financed out 
of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (B) such 
goods, works and services shall be 
used exclusively in the carrying 
out of the Sub-project;
(iii)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if 
the Bank 
shall so request, such goods and facilities included 
in the Sub-project, the 
operation thereof, and any relevant records 
and documents;
(iv)
require that: (A) the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain with 
responsible 
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such 
amounts, as shall be 
consistent with sound business prac-tice; and 
(B) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall 
cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and 
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
to the place 
of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made 
payable in a currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair 
such goods;
(v)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall 
reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and 
financial condition of the Beneficiary 
and to the benefits to be derived from 
the Sub-project; and
 
(vi)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of 
the proceeds 
of the Loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its 
obligations under 
its contract with the Entity.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the Entity to exercise its rights in relation to 
each Sub-project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the 
Borrower; (ii) enable the Borrower to comply with its obligations under this 
Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower, through SCT, shall: (i) cause the study under Part B 
(1) of the Project to be carried out in accordance with terms of reference and a 
detailed work program satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) afford the Bank a reasonable 
opportunity to comment on the draft of such study; (iii) take into consideration the 
Bank's comments; (iv) complete such study not later than six months after the date of 
this Agreement; and (v) promptly inform the Bank of all such action as the Borrower 
shall take based on the recommendations of such study.
Section 3.05. The Borrower, through SCT, shall: (i) cause the study under Part B 
(2) of the Project to be carried out under the supervision of an independent 
commission composed of persons, the majority of whom shall not be employees of the 
direct administration of the Borrower (administracao federal direta), with experience 
and qualifications, and under terms of reference and detailed work program 
satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on 
the interim and final drafts of such study; (iii) take into consideration the Bank's 
comments; (iv) complete such study not later than October 30, 1992; and (v) promptly 
inform the Bank of all such action as the Borrower shall take based on the 
recommendations of such study.
Section 3.06. (a) Without limitation or restriction to the provisions of Section 
9.01 of the General Conditions, on the date falling on the second year after the date 
of this Agreement, or when an amount of the Loan equivalent to 60% thereof shall have 
been committed by the Borrower to pay expenditures under the Project, whichever comes 
first, the Borrower and the Bank shall review,
Page  7
on the basis of criteria satisfactory to the Bank, the progress achieved by the 
Borrower in the execution of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of the review referred to in paragraph (a) above, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank one month prior to such review a report, which 
shall include the comments of GEA thereon, on the progress and achievement of the 
objectives of the Project by such date.
(c)
The Borrower shall make such modifications in the PADCT II Guidelines and 
Sub-program objectives and such reallocation of funds among the Sub-programs as the 
Bank may reasonably request, as a result of the review referred to in paragraph (a) 
above, in order that the objectives of the Project be achieved.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than May 30 of each year during the 
execution of the Project, starting on May 30, 1991, prepare and send to the Bank a 
report, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request, on the sources and uses of funds, and allocation of 
funds and expenditures in the areas of science and technology research in Brazil, 
including PADCT II.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action as 
shall be necessary to enable the importation of goods under the Project to be carried 
out in a timely manner, including, inter alia, taking appropriate action, through SCT, 
to ensure that FESA is operated in such manner as to permit the carrying out of such 
importation.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through SCT and CAPES, maintain, and cause 
FINEP and CNPQ to maintain separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures 
in respect of the Project of SCT, CAPES, FINEP and CNPQ.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Accounts for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special Accounts was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
Page  8
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the proce-dures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
CNPQ or FINEP shall have failed to perform any of their respective 
obligations under the Contractual Arrangements;
(b)
the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CNPQ or FINEP or for the suspension 
of the operations of any of
them.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraph 
(a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a 
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank;
(b)
the Contractual Arrangements have been duly signed and authorized by the 
parties thereto;
(c)
the counterpart funds required to carry out the activities during the 
first year of the Project shall have been allocated in terms consistent with the 
estimated costs therefor in the 1991 budget of the Borrower;
(d)
the terms of reference and work program, satisfactory to the Bank, for 
the study under Part B (1) of the Project have been furnished to the Bank;
(e)
the terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, for the study under 
Part B (2) of the Project have been furnished to the Bank; and
(f)
the members of the commission referred to in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement have been duly appointed.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank;
 
(b)
that the Contractual Arrangements have been duly authorized by the 
parties thereto and are legally valid and binding upon them in accordance with their 
terms; and
(c)
that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given 
by the Borrower, its political subdivisions or agencies, or otherwise to be performed 
Page  9
or given in order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the 
Borrower to perform its obligations pursuant to this Agreement, together with all 
necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been performed or given.
Section 6.03. The date of May 15, 1991 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Economy, Finance and Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Economia, Fazenda e Planejamento
Edificio do Ministerio da Economia,
   Fazenda e Planejamento
Esplanada dos Ministerios - Bloco P
70.048 - Brasilia, DF
Brasil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIFAZ
611506 MFAZ BR
 
Telefacsimile:
61 226-2502
With copies to:
Departamento de Assuntos Internacionais
   do Ministerio da Economia, Fazenda e Planejamento
Esplanada dos Ministerios - Bloco K - 5o andar
70.063 - Brasilia, DF
Brasil
Cable Address:
Telex:
 
DEAIN/MEFP
611146 SPPR BR
612207 SPPR BR
Secretaria da Ciencia e Tecnologia da Presidencia
   da Republica
Edificio da Secretaria da Ciencia e Tecnologia
Esplanada dos Ministerios - Bloco E - 4o andar
70.062 - Brasilia, DF
Brasil
Cable Address:
Telex:
 
SCT/PR
612858 SCTR BR
613886 SCTR BR
Telefacsimile:
61 223-0564
61 226-1257
For the Bank:
Page  10
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Helio Gil Gracindo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Goods, works, con-
      sultants' services
      and training for
      Sub-projects under
      the following Sub-
      programs:
      (a) Biotechnology          22,900,000)
                                           )
      (b) Chemistry and           28,900,000)
          chemical                          )
          engineering                       )
                                            )
      (c) Geosciences and         18,400,000)     100% of foreign
          mineral technology                )     expenditures and
                                            )     25% of local
      (d) Instrumentation          8,300,000)     expenditures
Page  11
                                            )
      (e) Science education        9,200,000)
                                            )
      (f) Science planning         2,300,000)
          and management                    )
                                            )
      (g) Science equipment        3,800,000)
          maintenance                       )
   )
      (h) Science consum-          3,500,000)
          ables and                         )
          reagents                          )
                                            )
      (i) Science                  1,900,000)
          information                       )     100% of foreign
                                            )     expenditures and
      (j) Basic industrial        18,200,000)     25% of local
          technology                        )     expenditures
      (k) New materials           24,900,000)
                                            )
      (l) Environmental            6,800,000)
        science                             )
(2) Administration                   500,000      100% of foreign
    costs for Project                             expenditures
    monitoring and
    supervision
(3) Study under                      200,000      100% of foreign
    Part B (1) of                                 expenditures
    the Project                                   and 25% of local
                                                  expenditures
(4) Study under                      200,000      100% of foreign
    Part B (2) of                                 expenditures
    the Project
                                 ___________
         TOTAL                   150,000,000
                                 ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$200,000, may be made in respect of Category (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
September 1, 1990; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category (4) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the Borrower has furnished to the Bank a detailed 
work program, satisfactory to the Bank, for the study under Part B (2) of the Project.
4.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, withdrawal applications shall be 
consolidated so as to apply for withdrawals from the Loan Account of aggregate amounts 
of not less than $150,000 equivalent.
Page  12
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objective of the Project is to consolidate and extend the gains made 
under the Prior Project in: (i) strengthening research capacity in specific science 
areas including human resource development; and (ii) institutional reform by 
decentralizing science decision-making, including using peer review mechanisms for 
selecting Sub-projects. A second objective of the Project is to strengthen the policy 
decision-making processes and management of the Borrower's science and technology 
sector as well as to help improve the environment for technological innovation in the 
private sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Sub-projects
 
This part of the Project consists in the carrying out of Sub-projects within 
PADCT II in any of the Sub-programs in the following areas: (1) biotechnology; (2) 
chemistry and chemical engineering; (3) geoscience and mineral technology; (4) 
instrumentation; (5) science education; (6) science planning and management; (7) 
science equipment maintenance; (8) science consumables and reagents; (9) science 
information; (10) basic industrial technology; (11) new materials; and (12) 
environmental science, such Sub-projects to provide for some or all of the following: 
scholarships for under-graduate, graduate and post-graduate training in Brazil and 
abroad, training programs for practicing researchers and technicians, visiting 
professorships, seminars, information centers, refurbishing of laboratories, purchase 
of equipment and materials to strengthen research and training, and hiring of support 
and other staff to implement specific research and training programs.
Part B:
Studies
 
(1)
A study to review key issues for the Borrower's science and technology sector, 
including those related to: (i) the long-term role of science and technology in the 
country's economic development; (ii) improving management, organization and 
decision-making in the sector; and (iii) improving the environment for technological 
innovation in the private sector.
(2)
A study to review issues related to, and to propose actions for, increasing 
Brazil's industrial competitiveness through the improvement of quality and 
productivity in industry.
*                 *                 *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning April 1, 1996
through October 1, 2005
7,500,000
Page  13
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in  Sections I 
Page  14
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bidding 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent to $250,000 or more so as to permit 
international competitive bidding.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto, provided, however, that:
1.
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate any 
preference which would be granted, the information required to establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be followed in the 
evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the following two 
groups:
(1)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder shall 
have 
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that such 
goods contain 
components manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of 
the value of the complete goods.
(2)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
3.
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all evaluated bids 
in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking into account 
customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and similar 
taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery of the goods pursuant to the 
bids. Such lowest evaluated
bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a 
bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above, the lowest evaluated 
bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with the lowest 
evaluated bid from group A after adding: (i) to the evaluated bid price of goods to be 
imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the amount of 
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay 
for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid or (B) 15% of the c.i.f. 
bid price of such goods; and (ii) to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied 
domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the 
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be levied on the goods 
offered in such group B if they originated from the same foreign country as the bid 
included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties and other importtaxes, or 
(B) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If, as a result of this comparison, 
the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the 
lowest evaluated bid from group B, as determined under paragraph 3 above, shall be 
selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Goods, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $250,000 but more than the 
equivalent of $25,000, and civil works may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less may be 
awarded under the procurement procedures referred to in paragraph 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Contracts for specialized equipment provided by a limited number of suppliers, 
Page  15
not exceeding in the aggregate the equivalent of $34,300,000, may be awarded under the 
procurement procedures
referred to in paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
4.
Goods which are proprietary in nature, not exceeding in the aggregate the 
equivalent of $6,200,000, may be purchased directly from the supplier.
Part D:
Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded pursuant to the 
provisions of Part C.3 of this Section and costing the equivalent of $250,000 or more 
or Part A of this Section, and
(ii) the first two contracts for goods to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of 
Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for any such contracts are to be made 
out of the proceeds of CESA or FESA, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that 
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant 
to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the 
first payment out of CESA or FESA in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of CESA or FESA, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Part E:
Other
 
For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term "customs duties and 
other import taxes" includes the FSRMM.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower and the Entities in the carrying out of the 
Project and the Beneficiaries in the carrying out of their Sub-projects, the Borrower, 
the Entities or the Beneficiaries, as the case may be, shall employ consultants whose 
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the 
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The 
World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts: CESA and FESA
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the 
Page  16
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$18,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into CESA and FESA 
($6,000,000 equivalent into CESA and $12,000,000 equivalent into FESA) pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of CESA and FESA, as the 
case may be, shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and of this Schedule. Withdrawals 
from CESA or FESA shall be made on the basis of evidence that the Bank shall have 
reasonably determined. For each such withdrawal, the Central Bank or the Account Bank, 
as the case may be, shall debit or cause to be debited, CESA or FESA, as appropriate, 
with the dollar equivalent of the amount of the Eligible Expenditures in question in 
Cruzeiros, in the case of CESA, or the actual dollar amount, or the dollar equivalent 
of the Eligible Expenditures in currencies other than dollars or Cruzeiros, in the 
case of FESA.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that CESA or FESA have 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish CESA or FESA shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into CESA or FESA, 
as the case may be, such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of CESA or FESA, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank 
requests for deposits into CESA or FESA at such 
intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into CESA or FESA, as the 
case may be, such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall
have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of 
CESA or FESA, as the case may be, for Eligible Expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of CESA or FESA, as the case may be, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively 
for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into CESA or FESA:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Page  17
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in CESA or FESA, as the case may be, as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
either CESA or FESA: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into CESA or 
FESA (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into CESA and FESA shall be 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in either CESA or FESA will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible 
Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in CESA or FESA.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
