                                      Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR3010



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (TF-53360 TF-53361)



                                        ON A

          GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT

            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$11.123 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                   TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                                       AND A

          GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$0.877

                     TO LGU GUARANTEE CORPORATION

                                       FOR A

       ELECTRIC COOPERATIVE SYSTEM LOSS REDUCTION PROJECT



                                  June 24, 2014




Sustainable Development Department
Philippines Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective 05282014)

                         Currency Unit = Philippine Peso
                               US$ 1.00 = PHP 44
                             PHP 1.00 = US$ 0.023

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                                  July 1 – June 30

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AM       Aide Memoir                         HEECP     Hungary Energy Efficiency Co-
                                                       financing Program
Capex    Capital Investment                  IFR       Interim Financial Reports
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy         IMC       Investment Management
                                                       Contract
CO2      Carbon Dioxide                      IP        Indigenous Peoples
DOE      Department of Energy                ISR       Implementation Status Report
EC       Electric Cooperative                LGUGC     LGU Guarantee Corporation
ECSLRP   Electric Cooperative System         M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
         Loss Reduction Project
ECPCG    Electric Cooperative Partial        MWh       Megawatt-hours
         Credit Guarantee
ESMF     Environment and Social              NEA       National Electrification
         Policies Framework                            Administration
ERC      Energy Regulatory Commission        PAD       Project Appraisal Document
FM       Financial Management                PDO       Project Development Objective
GDP      Gross Domestic Product              PDP       Philippine Development Plan
GEF      Global Environment Facility         PhP       Philippines Peso
GEO      Global Environment Objective        PHRED     Philippines Renewable Energy
                                                       Development
GHG      Greenhouse Gas                      PNB       Philippines National Bank
GOP      Government of Philippines           RERP      Rural Electrification
                                                       Revitalization Project


                           Vice President:   Axel van Trotsenburg, EAPVP
                        Country Director:    Motoo Konishi, EACPF
                          Sector Manager:    Ousmane Dione, EASPS
                     Project Team Leader:    Alan Townsend, EASWE
                     ICR Primary Author:     Suk Harn Jeanette Lim, EASWE
                                          PHILIPPINES
                        Electric Cooperative System Loss Reduction Project



                                                         CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Profile

  1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design................................................ 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................... 3
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 13
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 21
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 21
  6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 25
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 26
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................... 27
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.............................................................................................. 28
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 34
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................... 37
  Annex 5. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ......................................................... 39
  Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 40
  Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders. .................................. 47
  Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents. ................................................................................. 48

MAP: IBRD 33466R4
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Electric Cooperative
Country:                Philippines              Project Name:             System Loss Reduction
                                                                           Project
Project ID:             P066532                  L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-53360,TF-53361
ICR Date:               06/24/2014               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           REPUBLIC OF THE
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:                 PHILIPPINES;
                                                                           LGUGC
Original Total
                        USD 12.00M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 11.63M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 11.63M
Environmental Category: F                        Global Focal Area: C
Implementing Agencies:
 LGU Guarantee Corporation (LGUGC)
 Department of Energy
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/04/2003      Effectiveness:                               11/05/2004
Appraisal:            09/22/2003      Restructuring(s):                            10/18/2011
Approval:             04/29/2004      Mid-term Review:        09/30/2008           05/18/2009
                                      Closing:                12/31/2011           12/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome               Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                    Ratings
                             Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:                Moderately Satisfactory
                           Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                            Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                        Overall Borrower
                          Moderately Satisfactory                              Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                        Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                                Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           Yes                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original                 Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Energy efficiency in Heat and Power                                    100                  100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                          67                   67
Infrastructure services for private sector development                  33                   33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:            Axel van Trotsenburg                  Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Motoo Konishi                         Robert V. Pulley
Sector Manager:            Ousmane Dione                         Junhui Wu
Project Team Leader:       Alan F. Townsend                      Selina Wai Sheung Shum
ICR Team Leader:           Suk Harn Jeanette Lim
ICR Primary Author:        Suk Harn Jeanette Lim
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The global objective of Global Environment Facility (GEF) support will be to reduce
GHG emissions through the removal of barriers to energy efficiency investments in the
rural power distribution sub-sector. Key indicators are at least 80 GWh of energy savings
and at least 40,000 tons of CO2 emissions avoided annually by end of the project.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications
NA

(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target    Formally        Actual Value
                                                Values (from      Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                  approval         Target        Completion or
                                                 documents)        Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Annual energy savings of at least 80 GWh by project end
Value                                                                            66.2 GWh based on
(quantitative or   zero                     80 GWh             80 GWh            all assets financed
Qualitative)                                                                     by project end.
Date achieved    04/28/2005                 12/31/2011           12/31/2013      12/31/2013
Comments         Based on a conservative estimate, 84% of target was met. Simplistic modelling
(incl. %         during project design resulting in unrealistic target setting made it difficult to
achievement)     meet target.
Indicator 2 :    At least 40,000 tons of avoided carbon dioxide emissions annually by project end
                                                                                 68,481 tons of
                                                                 40,000 tons of
                                            40,000 tons of                       carbon dioxide
Value                                                            carbon dioxide
                                            carbon dioxide                       emissions were
(quantitative or zero                                            emissions
                                            emissions avoided                    avoided based on
Qualitative)                                                     avoided per
                                            per year                             all assets financed
                                                                 year
                                                                                 by project end.
Date achieved 04/28/2005                    12/31/2011           12/31/2013      12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         Outcome exceeded target by 71%.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                              Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                approval                         Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                              documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Cumulative number of loan guarantees issued for ECs
Value
(quantitative or zero                       at least 15        at least 15     19
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/28/2005                   12/31/2011         12/31/2013      12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         Outcome exceeded target by 27%.
achievement)
                 Cumulative number of successful investment management contract (IMC)
Indicator 2 :
                 transactions
Value
(quantitative or zero                      At least 6         At least 6      0
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/28/2005                   12/31/2011         12/31/2013      12/31/2013
Comments         No IMC transactions were realized. IMCs were not suitable for ECs that required
(incl. %         huge amounts of investments to attain financial turnaround despite the relevance
achievement) of the philosophical framework.
Indicator 3 : Cumulative value of loan guarantees issued
Value
                                           At least US$24     At least
(quantitative or zero                                                         US$46.65 million
                                           million            US$24 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/28/2005                   12/31/2011         12/31/2013      12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         Outcome exceeded target by 94%.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Cumulative investment in ECs under the project
Value
                                           At least US$40     At least
(quantitative or zero                                                         US$58.31 million
                                           million            US$40 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/28/2005                   12/31/2011         12/31/2013      12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         Outcome exceeded target by 46%.
achievement)
                 Total number of commercial banks and other private financial institutions
Indicator 5 :
                 providing loans for investments in ECs under the project
Value
(quantitative or zero                      At least 4         At least 4      5
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/28/2005                   12/31/2011         12/31/2013      12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         Outcome exceeded target by 25%.
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Cumulative guarantee claim payments under the project
Value
                                           Not more than      Not more than
(quantitative or zero                                                         US$0
                                           US$3 million       US$3 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/28/2005                   12/31/2011         12/31/2013      12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         Outcome exceeds target.
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Training and workshops for DOE and NEA on IMCs
Value            not stated                Number not         Number not 2
(quantitative or                             specified          specified
Qualitative)
Date achieved      04/28/2005                12/31/2011         12/31/2013     12/31/2013
Comments
                   Target did not specify number. Capacity building activities were undertaken.
(incl. %
                   Feedback on usefulness of activities was positive.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :      Training, study tours and workshops for ECs and ERC
Value
                                             Number not         Number not
(quantitative or   zero                                                        19
                                             specified          specified
Qualitative)
Date achieved      04/28/2005                12/31/2011         12/31/2013     12/31/2013
Comments
                   Target did not specify number. Capacity building activities were undertaken.
(incl. %
                   Feedback on usefulness of activities was positive.
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
No.                               GEO                         IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     06/30/2004            Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         0.00
  2     12/27/2004            Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         0.00
  3     06/09/2005            Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         5.18
  4     06/07/2006        Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  5.23
  5     06/08/2007        Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  5.36
  6     06/27/2008           Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                        5.52
  7     06/22/2009           Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                        5.63
                               Moderately
  8     01/07/2010                                   Unsatisfactory                          5.66
                             Unsatisfactory
                               Moderately
  9     03/01/2010                                   Unsatisfactory                          5.66
                             Unsatisfactory
 10     10/26/2010        Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                           5.73
 11     04/02/2011        Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                          10.78
 12     09/06/2011        Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                          10.84
 13     03/13/2012        Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                          10.99
 14     12/21/2012        Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                          11.32
 15     06/13/2013            Satisfactory            Satisfactory                          11.47
 16     12/13/2013            Satisfactory            Satisfactory                          11.66
H. Restructuring (if any)

                         ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                           Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                 Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              GEO Change GEO      IP       in USD
                                          millions
                                                      (a) Extend closing date for both
                                                      grants to Dec 31, 2013;
                                                      (b) Reallocate grant proceeds to
                                                      cater for increase in incremental
 10/18/2011       N        MS      S          10.89   operating cost projections
                                                      arising from a substantial
                                                      increase in the number of deals
                                                      for inclusion in the ECPCG
                                                      program




I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At the time of project approval in 2004, the Government of Philippines (GOP) was in the
process of undertaking a series of reforms in the rural power sector to enable the supply
of reliable and competitively priced electricity. Its strategy was to increase private sector
investments in the power industry while minimizing the government’s financial
commitment, and to enhance operational and economic efficiency in electric cooperatives
(ECs) in a sustainable manner.

GOP’s call for enhanced private sector involvement in the EC sector came as a response
to multiple barriers faced by ECs in securing financing for system loss reduction
investments. These barriers included (a) limited creditworthiness which essentially close
the door on affordable commercial financing of efficiency improvements; (b) political
interference in EC investments which often forced them to extend coverage to low
density/remote areas; and (c) weak management. In addition, the National Electrification
Administration (NEA), the apex organization for rural electrification which financed
about 90% of ECs’ funding requirements, was saddled with substantial accumulated debt,
thereby threatening the longer-term sustainability of ECs which depended on it for
investments.

ECs continued to be plagued by high system losses, which was symptomatic of their lack
of funds and under-investments while they continued to expand their systems to extend
energy access to the poor. The effects of ECs’ low levels of efficiency were not only felt
in the power sector - they had major implications on the Philippines’ greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions levels. Taking in view that the power sector accounted for over 26% of
the country’s GHG emissions, the Philippines was looking at an unsustainable growth
trajectory – with the power sector alone accounting for an expected increase from 14
million tons of carbon dioxide (CO2) equivalent in 1996 to about 133 million tCO2e in
2020. The focus on enhancing ECs’ efficiency was more urgent in light of their higher
contribution to emissions owing to their dependence on diesel or bunker fuel for power
generation.

Given the above landscape, the Bank approved the Electric Cooperative System Loss
Reduction Project (ECSLRP) that targeted efficiency improvements among ECs, and
designed it to promote private sector investments in the sector. This was expected to help
GOP to achieve its objective of transforming ECs into competitive, efficient and
financially viable organizations.

1.2 Original Project Development Objective (as approved)

The PAD states that the objective of the project is to achieve significant and sustained
energy efficiency improvements in ECs in order to provide current and prospective viable
EC customers with reliable and least-cost power supply over the long term. The Legal
Agreements state that the objective of the project is to assist the Philippines and LGU


                                             1
Guarantee Corporation (LGUGC) in promoting energy efficiency improvements for the
provision of reliable and least-cost power supply and the reduction of CO2 emissions and
other pollutants through commercial lending and private investment in ECs. The ICR
uses the PDO of the Legal Agreements as the impact of the project on CO2 emissions is
considered in the assessment of outcomes.

Key indicators are:
(a)    Annual energy savings of at least 80 GWh; and
(b)    Avoided CO2 emissions of at least 40,000 tons annually by project end.

Intermediate indicators are:
(a) Quantity and quality of the credit guarantee program– (i) at least 15 guarantees issued
    for ECs; (ii) at least 6 Investment Management Contracts (IMCs) transactions; (iii) at
    least $24 million of loan guarantees issued; (iv) at least $40 million of investment in
    ECs, (v) at least 4 commercial banks and other financial institutions providing loans
    to ECs; and (vi) not more than $3 million of cumulative guarantee claim payments.
(b) Socio-economic impact on consumers - No specific targets were provided for this
    category. Indicators included the level of EC service quality (as indicated by the
    frequency of power supply interruptions), average household income, monthly
    expenditures on energy consumption prior to and after project implementation, level
    of private investment and management of ECs and the reduced need for public
    support of ECs.

1.3 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The global objective of Global Environment Facility (GEF) support is to reduce GHG
emissions through the removal of barriers to energy efficiency investments in the rural
power distribution sub-sector. The GEO indicators are the same as that of the PDO’s key
indicators reflected above. The indicators for PDO and GEO are very closely linked as
system loss reduction is the source of reduced GHG emissions.

1.4 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

GEO was not revised.

1.5 Main Beneficiaries

The primary beneficiaries were ECs which could enjoy significant improvements in
system efficiency levels, and whose performances could potentially be turned around.
The focus was also on the improvement of the environment for private sector investments
in the electricity sector targeted at rural customers. Indirect benefits would accrue to rural
electricity customers who would gain access to affordable and reliable electricity supply.




                                              2
1.6 Original Components (as approved)

The project consists of 2 components, namely the EC Partial Credit Guarantee Program
(ECPCG) and Capacity Building and Implementation Support for Key Stakeholders.

Component 1: Partial Credit Guarantee Program (US$10 million, fully funded by a
GEF Grant)

Under ECSLRP, an ECPCG was established to manage and operate two windows; one
for credit enhancement of loans to Non-ECs (so-called IMCs) and the other for support of
loans to qualified ECs. The first window was to pilot the use of IMCs to attract private
sector investors to manage and operate selected ECs under long-term, performance-based
contracts, and to mobilize private finance without recourse to the government. The
second window was to support commercial lending to qualified ECs for efficiency
improvements. For this purpose, a Guarantee Reserve Account was set up to guarantee
commercial loans to ECs and non-EC investors. The guarantee can cover up to 80% of
the underlying loan.

Component 2: Capacity building and implementation support for key stakeholders
(US$2.3 million, of which $2 million was funded by a GEF Grant, $0.2 million was
funded from Department of Energy and $0.1 million from LGUGC)

This component supported LGUGC and the Department of Energy (DOE) in
strengthening their capacity in project implementation, including the provision of office
equipment as well as technical assistance, training, study tours and workshops for
financial intermediaries, selected ECs, EC investors, Energy Regulatory Commission
(ERC) and NEA.

1.7 Revised Components

The IMC component was dropped after the mid-term review which found that while
IMC’s philosophical framework was still sound and relevant to ECs’ needs, it was not
suitable for ECs that required large amounts of investments to attain financial turnaround.

1.8 Other significant changes

On Oct 18, 2011, approval was granted to (a) extend the closing date for both grants to
Dec 31, 2013; and (b) to reallocate grant proceeds to cater for the increase in incremental
operating cost projections arising from a substantial increase in the number of deals for
inclusion in the ECPCG program (see grant reallocation in Annex 1).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry




                                            3
2.1.1 Soundness of background analysis

Alignment with Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and GOP Sector Priorities

ECSLRP was aligned with the priorities of GOP at the time of project approval. It was
consistent with GOP’s Philippines Energy Plan 2004-2013 which called for intensified
implementation of energy efficiency programs in the energy sector, and supported
regulation that required utilities and ECs to achieve annual targets of reduced system
losses.

At the time of project preparation, the Bank Group CAS emphasized a strategy that
supported privatization with a particular emphasis on infrastructure and improving the
quality of social and institutional capacity. ECSLRP addressed these CAS goals.

Analytical work

Extensive project preparation and design work were undertaken before project approval.
The project design was built on findings of analytical work that had been carried out as
part of Bank engagement such as the Bank’s review of best practices in rural
electrification.

Project preparation was overly optimistic on the pipeline projects that could be
implemented with the commencement of ECSLRP. For ECs to tap on the Guarantee Fund,
they would first have to gain approval from ERC on the pipeline of projects to be
implemented with funding from ECSLRP. However, most ECs lacked the capacity to
meet ERC requirements for project feasibility studies, which resulted in a dearth of ERC
approved projects that were ready for implementation. NEA was also ambivalent about
supporting a project in which they were not really involved. The pipeline of IMCs failed
to materialize, despite the Bank’s findings during project preparation of the potential for
pilot ECs to attract private risk capital and improve the quality of service by turning over
the management of EC operations to IMC investors/operators.

Lessons from past projects

The project took into account the need to assess institutional capacity realistically before
project start-up which was highlighted in CAS as an issue that constantly arose following
reviews of operations in the Philippines. Specifically, ECSLRP took into account lessons
learnt from previous Bank projects, in particular the Rural Electrification Revitalization
Project (RERP) which noted that the selected Guarantee Program Manager will have to
be financially sound and have a proven track record in loan guarantees in the country.

Lessons from international experience

The project took into account lessons from Bank/IFC/GEF partial loan guarantee
programs in Hungary, Croatia and China, which highlighted the need for clear and
transparent appraisal methods for all subprojects, broad risk sharing among end-users,
lenders and guarantors to guard against moral hazard, and a clear understanding of target


                                             4
market. It also adopted the lessons learnt from the IFC/GEF Hungary Energy Efficiency
Co-financing Program (HEECP) in which the targeted program marketing is critical to
pipeline development and that partial credit facilities can improve a borrower’s access to
credit.

2.1.2   Assessment of Project Design

Project Objectives

The PDO is relevant for the Philippines as it addresses GOP’s priority of achieving
efficiency in the provision of electricity that would enable current and future EC
customers to enjoy reliable and least-cost power supply. It is also consistent with GOP’s
policy of fiscal prudence, and the goal of maximizing private investments in the EC
sector. ECSLRP is consistent with the Bank’s support for policies to enhance electricity
access and the Bank’s CAS focus on the efficient provision of rural infrastructure.

The PDO furthers the global goals for GEF operations in reducing GHG emissions
through the removal of barriers to energy efficiency. It is noted that PDOs in the legal
agreements and PAD were not identical, although the performance indicators were
diligently tracked throughout the supervision period. For the purpose of the ICR, the
assessment of outcomes is based on the indicators in PAD as they are more specific.

Project Targets

It is unclear how the targets for energy savings and GHG emissions avoided were set
during project preparation. Taking into consideration that the total kWh purchased or
generated for the 18 ECs that participated in ECSLRP is 2,427 GWh, a 3.3% reduction
would be required to achieve the target of 80GWh of system losses. Since the maximum
reduction in technical loss possible through a single capital investment (capex) project in
the Philippines is unlikely to exceed 1 – 2% of total energy (given typical losses of 7-8%
at the distribution level), the targets set were high.

Project components and organization

Component 1: Partial Credit Guarantee Program

Given the backdrop of multiple barriers to system loss reduction investments in ECs
described in section 1.1, ECSLRP was designed appropriately. For attraction of
commercial debt to a sector with recognized governance and creditworthiness issues, a
partial credit guarantee made good sense. By specifically addressing non-payment risks,
the PCG prompted commercial lenders to be interested in extending loans to ECs; in turn,
ECs participating in the program have been exposed to commercial financing processes,
documentation, and standards.

ECs had previously been mostly dependent on NEA for financing of investments.
ECPCG enabled commercial banks to enter the sector in a risk-managed way and with



                                            5
lower transaction costs, since a portion of due diligence expenses were paid for by the
program (and initial due diligence was in most cases done by LGUGC).

The development of project screening criteria for the guarantee program was desirable in
facilitating LGUGC in its accreditation of the commercial banks and selection of ECs
into ECSLRP. The performance-based compensation for LGUGC’s management services
was correct as it provided sufficient incentives for LGUGC to close as many deals as
possible.

In light of the Bank’s review of best practices in rural electrification (which included the
importance of aligning incentives to reward good performance in utilities and their
management), the fact that the IMC model is untested in the Philippines, and that
feedback suggested strong interest in testing the IMC approach at the time of project
preparation, the design of the IMC approach was reasonable. The flaw was not of design
of the financial instrument but rather of, first, insufficient preparation of the first set of
projects, combined with, second, the decision to leave NEA at some distance from the
program.

Component 2: Capacity Building and Implementation Support for Key Stakeholders

The provision of technical assistance to stakeholders was critical and timely. The
capacity building components targeted at LGUGC were important given that it was
LGUGC’s first foray into the EC sector. Capacity building activities were extremely
relevant given that ECs were largely saddled with poor management systems, and
required training in technical, operational and management aspects of their business.
Capacity building activities were also important for financial institutions which had
limited knowledge of the EC sector. Just as importantly, the capacity building activities
were a useful tool in exposing commercial banks, as well as ECs on the benefits of
ECSLRP, and helping them to understand the requirements needed for them to participate
in the program.

Choice of trigger for disbursement of funds

The trigger to disburse the second tranche of the Guarantee Reserve Fund after the
execution of loan guarantee agreements between LGUGC and lenders for eligible
subprojects totaling $4 million was appropriate as it gave urgency to DOE and LGUGC
in working towards the realization of projects in order to secure the second tranche.

The remedial action plan, which required LGUGC to develop and implement a remedial
action plan with the aim of reducing the guarantee claims in the future should the
cumulative amount of the guarantee payment reach $1.5 million, was apt in mitigating
the risk of defaults. This plan was not activated as there were no defaults as of project end.

Institutional arrangements

Selecting DOE and LGUGC as the main implementing agencies was appropriate. DOE
had experience implementing Bank projects and was the relevant agency responsible for

                                              6
ECs. LGUGC’s selection as the implementing agency was spot-on. It was experienced in
guarantee operations and had already worked with USAID on guidelines and
methodologies of guarantees in other sectors. LGUGC was resourceful in leveraging on
its existing systems to monitor clients and on its relationships with commercial banks.
While initially having limited knowledge of the EC sector and lacking technical expertise
in this area, LGUGC strengthened its capacity by learning-by-doing and picking up
knowledge acquired through the consultants it hired to undertake financial due diligence
in the initial years of the project.

The exclusion of NEA in the first five and a half years of ECSLRP proved to be the key
stumbling block to project progress. NEA’s hold and influence over the ECs made it
impossible for ECSLRP to take off. ECs were reportedly interested in participating in
ECPCG but were discouraged by NEA from doing so owing to the competition that the
ECPCG posed to NEA. While the project team at appraisal did have valid concerns about
NEA’s inclusion in ECSLRP owing to the latter’s unsatisfactory performances in past
projects, weak financial position and less-than-satisfactory performance in lending and
inadequate financial discipline, NEA’s clout over the ECs should not have been
discounted. In addition, the project team had failed to detect the shifts in NEA
governance/culture which meant it was increasingly serious about reform. In this respect,
insufficient knowledge of the EC sector during project design, in particular, the politics
surrounding the sector, greatly hindered the successful implementation of the project. Not
only were the outcomes threatened with the exclusion of NEA, but there was a missed
opportunity in tapping NEA’s experience and benefitting from its relationships with ECs.

Social and Environmental Safeguards and Financial Management Policies and
Guidelines

All applicable World Bank Group safeguards policies and guidelines were considered
and addressed during the environmental and social assessment of the Project. The Rural
Power Project Environment and Social Policies Framework (ESMF) outlining the process
required for the preparation of an Environmental assessment and Environmental
Management Plan was adopted. Three environmental and social safeguards were
triggered -OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment, OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement and
OP 4.20 (revised as 4.10 in July 2005) Indigenous Peoples. To address these, the project
adopted the Rural Power Project: Policy Framework for Land Acquisition, Resettlement,
and Rehabilitation and Policy Framework for Indigenous Peoples (July 2003), and an
Operations Manual was developed in consultation with key stakeholders. The FM risks
were adequately assessed during project preparation and appropriate FM implementation
arrangements were designed to ensure adequacy of funds without compromising the
internal controls necessary for the project, while taking due consideration to the relevant
risks involved and the financial management capacity of the implementing agencies.

2.1.3   Adequacy of government’s commitment

GOP involvement was strong, as was demonstrated by DOE’s Philippine Energy Plan
2004-2013 which called for intensified implementation of energy efficiency programs
covering the entire spectrum of energy users and projects, with aggregate savings


                                            7
estimated at about 82.6 m barrels of fuel oil equivalent and 3,289 MW of deferred
electricity generation capacity over the 10-year period. Specific provisions required
utilities and ECs to target reduced system losses on an annual basis.

2.1.4   Risks assessment

All relevant risks including market, implementation, operational, financing and political
risks, were identified and listed in Annex 1 of PAD.

Project risks were correctly assessed as substantial, in light of the high risks associated
with the willingness and ability of commercial banks to finance ECs’ operations, as well
as the politics surrounding the EC sector. The assessment of the high risks involved in
association with the willingness and ability of private investors to submit high quality
IMC bids and secure sufficient equity was accurate as can be seen by the lack of bids and
the Bank’s decision to drop this component in 2009. On hindsight, the team was too
optimistic in its prediction that the IMC mechanism would take off.

On balance, the overall project risks were acceptable given the potential substantial
upside should the project take off, the mitigation measures instituted and the Bank’s long-
term presence in the rural power sector, which would provide for avenues to address
problems that may arise. The team might have better considered the NEA-related
institutional risks, however.

2.2 Implementation

Implementation spanned nine and a half years; initially, it was targeted to be completed
after seven and a half years. Major implementation milestones included the mid-term
review carried out in May 2009 and the approved restructuring in Oct 2011.

2.2.1   Key factors affecting implementation and outcomes

Role of NEA

As discussed earlier, NEA’s exclusion in ECSLRP from project start stalled progress
owing to its strong influence over ECs. The conclusion of the co-financing agreement
between NEA and LGUGC in 2009 led to a renewed interest within NEA to complement,
rather than compete with private sector lending, and gave urgency to both LGUGC and
NEA to jointly identify, prepare and mobilize commercial loans for investments in
potentially viable ECs as well as establish co-financing arrangement between both parties
to finance multiyear investment programs of selected ECs.

The inclusion of NEA contributed to the rapid turnabout of the flailing project- six
months after the agreement was signed, three EC accounts amounting to $6 million in
loan guarantees were booked, supporting about $8-9 million in total investments, a
marked improvement from zero guarantees until then. Positive developments in the
credit market, which evolved in 2009-2010 and have persisted to this day, were also a
critical factor (see below).


                                             8
Significant changes in credit markets

In the aftermath of the global financial crisis in 2008-09, unexpectedly fast and positive
changes impacted the financing environment in the Philippines. Fueled in part by lower
interest rates and increasing liquidity in the financial sector, the economy rebounded in
2010, with GDP reaching 7.3%, the highest in 30 years. Sound macro-economic
performance and steady economic fundamentals kept interest rates low, liquidity high,
and credit growth robust. This 180 degree shift in credit markets impacted
implementation substantially. Financial institutions were flushed with liquidity and keen
to provide loans – at rates significantly lower than what NEA or other Government
financing institutions could offer.

Mid-term Review and Restructuring of Project

Having yet to achieve a single loan in 2009, almost 2 years from project close, a mid-
term review of ECSLRP was undertaken in May 2009. The review found that unless
NEA could be drawn into ECSLRP, ECs would be unlikely to participate, given NEA’s
critical role in approving investment and financing plans. Following the findings, a co-
financing agreement between NEA and LGUGC was signed.

The mid-term review also found that while the IMC’s philosophical framework was still
sound and relevant to ECs’ needs, it was not suitable for ECs that required huge amounts
of investments to attain financial and operational health. Taking this into account, the
decision was made to drop the IMC component. The sharpened focus on providing
commercial financing to support ECs’ loss reduction program led to solid gains in terms
of outcomes.

In light of progress made from mid-2010, the project was restructured on Oct 18, 2011 to
reallocate the grant proceeds to cater for a shift of funds originally allocated for training
and consultants to LGUGC’s operational work to meet increased demand for loan
guarantees. The closing date of the project was also extended 2 years till Dec 31, 2013, in
view that continuity was critical at the point of program development and would allow
the results of investments to develop as well as the program to mature. This extension
was timely – it made full use of the momentum of guarantees offered, provided
continuity at a critical time in program development restructuring, and allowed for the
achievement of outcomes at project end despite the late take-off of the program.

Increasing attractiveness of ECs as borrowers

Reforms to the EC sector from the time when the Electric Power Industry Reform Act
(EPIRA) was implemented as well as the enhancement of the regulatory framework
under ERC paved the way for increased confidence in the EC sector. This factor,
combined with EC’s enhanced capacity in areas of management and operational matters
with support from capacity building activities helped increase ECs’ creditworthiness.
Consequently, commercial banks not only became increasingly interested in offering
loans to ECs, but also offered lower rates than NEA.


                                             9
2.2.2   Key factors affecting GEF Grant are given below.

Slow project start-up

The US$5 million funds for the partial Credit Guarantee Fund were not transferred to the
Philippine National Bank (PNB) for over five months arising from a long process within
the national government financial agencies and institutions which were beyond DOE’s
control, thus delaying the start-up of the project. Protracted delays by DOE at project start
arising from understaffing and capacity were eventually sorted out.

Poor initial performance of the Guarantee Fund followed by a sharp turnabout towards
the closing date of the project

While LGUGC had conducted due diligence on selected ECs and accredited financial
institutions early on, the Guarantee Fund was not utilized until mid-2010 after NEA
became a key stakeholder in ECSLRP. Thereafter, there was a sharp uptake of guarantees
till project end, with commitments reaching a high of over 60% of fund capacity toward
the end of 2013.

Impact of ERC’s approval on ECs’ capex projects

ECs require ERC’s approval of their proposed investments before participating in
ECSLRP. At project start, ECs were unprepared and incapable of meeting ERC’s
requirements for project feasibility studies which effectively cut them off from the
program. With the enhanced capacities of ECs through ECSLRP, ECs began to face a
different challenge - the long approval process of ERC (at times even up to three years)
on capex and rate applications filed by ECs contributed to the low number of accounts
under the ECPCG.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1   M&E Design

Key performance indicators for PDO were organized into three categories: (a) traditional
performance indicators to address quantity and quality of the credit guarantee program;
(b) GHG mitigation impacts; and (c) social and economic impact of rural electrification.
While indicators for category (a) were appropriate and measurable, there could have been
more clarity on the specific indicators that would be used to measure energy efficiency
improvements associated with category (b). From a technical perspective, attributing such
improvements specifically to ECSLRP can be very difficult given the numerous external
factors that impact on energy efficiency, including the policy and regulatory framework
as well as the extension of electricity access to additional consumers. For category (c),
both the baseline and specific and measurable outcome indicators to assess progress in
meeting the PDO and monitoring the achievement of intermediate results were not
available and were only reflected as part of the indicators related to the higher level
sector-related CAS goal. The capacity building component could have included more
specific measures to capture absorption and use of the training provided.


                                             10
There was a strong and positive link between GEO and the performance indicators, given
the direct relationship between energy savings and GHG emissions reduction.

2.3.2   M&E Implementation

No baseline information was established, no surveys were conducted and no data was
collated on the social and economic impact of ECSLRP. Data on energy savings and
GHG emissions avoided was made available through participating ECs. The
methodology for computing these could have been standardized to enhance credibility of
data, especially in light of the complexity of such data collation exercises, as well as the
capacity of ECs. In some cases, system losses reported by ECs were deemed non-credible
as the figures exceeded the technical norms, thus complicating the computation of
outcomes.

2.3.3   M&E Utilization

PDO level indicators and triggers were monitored carefully by DOE, LGUGC and the
Bank and were also regularly recorded in ISRs and aide memoires (AMs) to monitor
project implementation progress and make decisions. Discussions were held at numerous
review missions as to the possibility of project cancellation given the lack of progress in
meeting PDO indicators until the project took off in 2010.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1   Environment

The project is rated moderately satisfactory in compliance with safeguards policy
OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment. In accordance with the appraisal and approval
process of sub-project proposals under ECSLRP, an Environmental Impact Assessment
report was prepared by the proponents and an Environmental Compliance Certificate was
secured by the proponent from the Department of Environment and Natural Resources
prior to project mobilization. Projects assessed by the safeguards team were found to be
managed and operated in an environmentally sound manner and there were no incidences
of violations of the government’s environmental standards. Likewise, the environmental
risks for these projects were minimal and appropriate mitigating measures were in place
to address potential hazards.

LGUGC did not maintain a repository of the environmental safeguards documents for the
projects covered under ECSLRP. There were also no records in their central files
showing that regular monitoring of the environmental performance of the projects was
done, likely because the officer responsible for safeguards was re-assigned but not
replaced.

2.4.2   Social

The project is rated moderately satisfactory in compliance to social safeguards
policies. Two social safeguards were triggered - OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement and

                                            11
OP 4.20 (revised as 4.10 in July 2005) Indigenous Peoples. Social safeguards policies and
procedures, especially those relating to land acquisition and compensation and
engagement of project affected Indigenous Peoples (IP) were complied with at the project
level. ECs made great efforts to avoid acquiring land that would displace dwelling
structures and in cases where vacant land was acquired for the construction of
infrastructure supported by ECSLRP, the outright sale approach between willing buyer
and seller was adopted.

2.4.3   Procurement

The Grant Agreement did not include paragraph 3.14 in Schedule 3 Procurement and
Consultants’ Services for Procurement under Loans Guaranteed by the Bank which
relates to the requirement for procurement practices to pay due attention to economy and
efficiency. This was likely because the requirement was new at the point when the Grant
Agreement was signed.

Other than the above, there were no serious procurement issues under the Project, with
any deficiencies noted being corrected. Both DOE and LGUGC performed satisfactorily
in implementing their procurement plan. Even though there were delays in procurement
activities in the early part of the project, project management improved over time.
LGUGC completed its procurement plan by project end despite initially facing
difficulties in this area given its unfamiliarity with Bank guidelines. In light of these,
overall borrower’s procurement performance is rated satisfactory.

2.4.4   Financial Management (FM)

DOE’s FM risk was rated moderate and its performance was rated moderately
satisfactory. DOE substantially complied with financial covenants including the
submission of the quarterly Interim Financial Reports (IFR) and annual audited project
financial statements but were late in submitting fourteen out of twenty-eight IFRs as well
as six out of eight audited project financial statements, some of which were due to factors
beyond its control. Three out of eight audit reports had qualified opinions relating to (i)
non-inclusion of certain equipment acquired in the Report on the Physical Count of
Property, Plant and Equipment; (ii) unreconciled difference between the balance per
books of the Cash in Bank-Foreign Currency Savings Account balance as of December
31, 2010 and the Financial Statements submitted by the Philippine National Bank; and
(iii) unrecorded interest earnings from the dollar and peso deposit accounts covering the
period June 2005 to December 2010. The audit findings and the reasons for qualifications
raised by COA did not result in ineligible expenditures, and were properly addressed by
DOE. Agreed financial management actions (for example, in addressing unrecorded
direct payments, difference between bank balance and accounting records of escrow
funds and unrecorded interest earnings for peso and dollar accounts) arising from FM
implementation reviews were also adequately addressed and resolved before the next
review mission. Systems of internal controls were found to be generally sufficient and
adequate throughout the life of the project. At project close, DOE’s FM performance was
rated satisfactory.



                                            12
With respect to LGUGC’s implementation of the project, its FM performance was
generally rated moderately satisfactory and rated low FM risk throughout the life of the
project. LGUGC substantially complied with the financial covenants which include the
timely submission of the quarterly IFRs and annual audited project and entity financial
statements. Both the audited project and entity financial statements had unqualified
opinions and were acceptable to the Bank. There were no accountability and internal
control issues and only minor delays in the submission of audit reports. LGUGC’s FM
performance at project end was rated satisfactory.

There were no major issues relating to FM and both DOE and LGUGC were rated
satisfactory at project close. In view of this and their overall performance over the
lifetime of the project, the overall rating for borrower’s performance in FM is
satisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

ECs more often than not are unable to fulfill collateral requirements by commercial banks
because their assets have already been pledged to NEA as collateral on their existing
loans. In light of this, commercial banks have provided feedback that the provision of
loans to ECs would still very much be dependent on the availability of the guarantee.
Given this backdrop, coupled with the increased demand for ECPCG support and
momentum gained at project end, the Bank is in the process of preparing the Philippines
Renewable Energy Development (PHRED) project to expand the capacity of GOP’s
ECPCG program. This project builds on ECSLRP progress, supports increased private
sector lending to ECs and extends support to renewable energy generation investments
which will have a much larger impact on emissions reduction. It would be important to
take into account M&E issues highlighted above in the design of PHRED performance
indicators.

Capacity building will still be required, especially for ECs, in order for them to become
financially viable. As a case in point, out of the 40 ECs LGUGC assessed by project end,
it had only supported 24, on the basis that the other 16 lacked good procurement and
governance practices. Financial institutions and ECs too have emphasized that more
could be done to enhance capacity building on a longer-term basis. The Bank may wish
to consider if there are ways to fund capacity building activities, especially in light that
LGUGC’s fee for managing the Guarantee Fund would be insufficient and unsustainable
in providing such services over the longer term, for example, in PHRED.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Relevance of PDO and GEO – high. The PDO remains relevant to current GOP
priorities and is consistent with the 2011-2016 Philippine Development Plan (PDP)
which calls for increased infrastructure investment and improved governance, and which
prioritizes programs to ensure energy security and reliable power supply. It is also
aligned with CAS for increased and improved delivery of infrastructure, in particular, for


                                            13
the need to accelerate investments for power transmission and distribution. The GEO
remains consistent with national and global priorities.

The PDO’s focus on targeting system loss reduction is appropriate given the emphasis on
improving energy efficiency in the EC sector. However, it should have been noted that
loss reduction as a singular goal is itself incongruent with GOP’s aim to extend
electrification, given that that connection of distributed loads at reasonable cost will
almost by definition bring additional technical losses. In other words, the case for adding
new load could be weak if loss reduction were the only goal. This contradictory
relationship would impact the assessment of outcomes which will be discussed later.

At project design, the targeted beneficiaries were “Type B” and “Type C” ECs, which
were ECs defined as not fully credit worthy but large in size, with high customer density
and with potential for large efficiency gains. While ECSLRP in practice supported the
“Type A” ECs (i.e. the more credit worthy ECs), it is noted that even these ECs at the
point of project implementation had not had success in accessing commercial financing,
much less the less credit worthy ones. ECSLRP’s critical role in facilitating commercial
financing of EC operations remains relevant to GOP’s priorities.

Relevance of Design - moderate. The project design continues to remain relevant as at
project end. The central principle of ECSLRP’s design was to maximize private
investments in the EC sector. The guarantee reduced the perceived risk of lending to ECs
and encouraged the flow of private investments into the sector, thereby enabling ECs to
increasingly connect new consumers and improve their financial status, which is a critical
development path for the EC sector in the longer term. The fact that the Bank is preparing
a proposed expansion of the program is testament to the effectiveness of project design.

However, as earlier mentioned, the exclusion of NEA, a key stakeholder, was a major
stumbling block to the progress of the project and a U-turn in bringing NEA into the
scheme in 2009 proved to be effective.

On balance, the relevance of design is rated moderate in light of the initial decision to
exclude NEA, a move which was subsequently corrected.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives and Global Environmental Objectives
PDO Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The project exceeded its GEO target of GHG emissions, and fell slightly short of the
target for energy savings. The ECPCG program issued US$46.65 million of loan
guarantees. 5 commercial banks financed 19 loans (to 18 different ECs) worth US$58.31
million that supported 147 separate investment components. There were no loan defaults.
These outcomes exceeded their respective targets. No IMC transactions were
accomplished, and this component was dropped from the project. See the table in Annex
2 for the details.




                                            14
IMCs

The IMC approach was seriously considered by the GOP as a potential way of
encouraging private sector investment, management and operation of ECs under long-
term performance-based contracts. Although the project team had a pipeline of IMCs at
project design, this was not enough to ensure the viability of the approach. The pilot areas
proved to be difficult and saddled with political baggage which significantly reduced the
likelihood of success. Eventually, the IMC approach was dropped as it was found that
IMCs were not suitable for ECs that required huge amounts of investments to attain
financial turnaround. Additionally, there was never more than very modest interest in
IMCs shown by potential private sector contractors.

Energy Savings and GHG Emissions Reductions

Based on a conservative estimate of loss reduction projects financed by the project, 66.2
GWh per year of energy savings (against a target of 80 GWh) was achieved. For GHG
reduction, the Bank estimates that 68,481 tons of GHG emissions were avoided at
project end (compared to a target of 40,000 tons).

These estimates are based on an analysis of assets in service by the time ECSLRP closed
in December 2013, with those numbers then grossed up to include assets that were
financed but not operational by the ECSLRP closing date. These additional assets are
material, given the back-loading of investments supported by the project; the assets in
question will in all cases come into service over the course of 2014 and early 2015. The
conclusion is that the targets set for GWh loss reduction were too ambitious, with an
estimated achievement of 80% of the target. However, the GHG target was exceeded –
this may seem inconsistent, but this is due to the use of an average grid emissions factor
at the time of appraisal rather than a marginal grid emissions factor (reflecting the reality
that the Philippines uses its current coal-fired capacity for load-following and mid-merit
purposes, and has become almost wholly dependent on new coal-fired power plants for
new generation). The over-estimation of loss reduction potential is discussed below, and
further details may be found in the annexes.

a) The targets set for system loss reduction were over-ambitious

   As discussed in section 2.1.2, the targets for system loss and GHG emissions
   reduction set during project design were overambitious, in light of the more realistic
   savings which are typically 1% to 2% through a single capex project.

b) Difficulty in attributing system loss and GHG reduction loss directly to ECSLRP

   Based on the PAD, it appears that the design team’s calculation of system losses and
   GHG reductions was based on a simplistic model, which left out key assumptions
   relevant to the distribution system that significantly impacted the targets set (details
   are given in Annex 2). There does not appear to be consideration of the difficulty in
   attributing system loss and GHG reduction losses directly to the program during
   project design which will have an impact on the outcomes.

                                             15
c) Increases in system losses and GHG emissions arising from the expansion of the
   distribution system to cater for increased electricity connections and economic
   growth were not accounted for during target setting

   The project team, at preparation stage, estimated the loss reduction to be achieved by
   an investment, and assumed that level of loss reduction to be permanent. This does
   not happen in reality – what actually happens is that, having lowered losses by
   reducing loading on critical infrastructure components, losses then creep back up as
   load growth occurs. While this reduces the level of overall loss reduction that should
   be claimed by the project, it is a good thing that households and businesses have
   access to more and better quality power. Losses and loss reduction exercises have a
   dynamic quality to them that is taken into account in this ICR report.

In light of the above, it is reasonable to assess that the project has managed to achieve
substantial results. Targets set at project preparation were not fully realistic, especially in
terms of IMCs and GWh loss reduction. The team also badly underestimated how long it
would take for the project to take off, which meant that investments were back-loaded
into the final three and a half years of the (extended) implementation period. But what
was achieved from 2010-2013 was quite substantial and is testament to the efforts and
commitment by all stakeholders to make the program work.

PDO – Achieve significant and sustained energy efficiency improvements in ECs
through (i) the demonstration of an effective financial mechanism to support private
sector investments; and (ii) the enabling of private sector investments in the EC
sector

The IMC approach was put aside after the Mid-Term Review assessed that the option
would not be workable during the project timeframe as IMC investors were unable to
turnaround EC operations due to the deteriorating financial situations of the pilot ECs. It
should be noted that the level of private sector interest in IMCs was never really that high.

Despite the above, ECSLRP made inroads in enabling private sector financing in the EC
sector. ECs, which previously solely depended on NEA for financing investments,
enjoyed access to a wide selection of commercial banks that offered better interest rates
and terms with the introduction of the ECPCG. These rates were so competitive that NEA
and government banks were prompted to lower their interest rates from 12% (prior to
ECSLRP) to 8%.

ECSLRP has gradually changed ECs’ mindset – previously dependent on public funds
(through NEA), many ECs are now more focused in obtaining commercial financing for
their investments. Some ECs have emerged as repeat customers of ECPCG, including
BUSECO, MORESCO I, BOHECO I, and SOCOTECO I (and one of these additional
financings was completed before Dec 31, 2013).

Commercial banks, given their increased knowledge and experience in servicing the EC
sector, have increased their risk appetite in financing ECs. Security Bank, for example,

                                              16
fast-tracked a large loan to LEYECO V, one of ECs most affected by Typhoon Yolanda,
in the weeks after the storm hit.

Commercial banks in the program continue to see the need for ECPCG to provide
guarantees for most creditworthy ECs going forward, as the sector remains risky overall.
But ECPCG is an important program to help facilitate the transition from a sector that
had been mostly financed from public sources, to one in which there is an increasing
proportion of risk capital.

PDO – Supporting GOP’s program for ECs to provide current and prospective
viable EC customers with reliable and least-cost power

ECSLRP supported 21 training sessions and study tours aimed at improving the
efficiency of the stakeholders participating in the program. While there is no data on the
effectiveness of capacity building activities, interviews with various AFIs and ECs have
consistently revealed that the capacity buildings component was beneficial. ECs shared
that the capacity building activities upgraded their technical, financial and management
capabilities, all of which are essential steps towards the maturity of the EC sector, its
growing ability to attract private sector financing and ability to achieve sustained energy
efficiency improvements.

The financing of more credit-worthy ECs’ investments by the commercial sector through
the ECPCG has in effect freed up some of NEA’s funds to be directed to marginal ECs.
This will contribute to the strengthening of the EC sector in the longer term by enabling
NEA to focus its efforts and funds on poorly performing ECs.

PDO - Overall Rating –Moderately Satisfactory

The project exceeded PDO’s targets for most indicators by 2012, ahead of the project
completion date. A conservative analysis of GWh loss reduction and avoided CO2
emissions suggests that the project undershot the target for GWh, but exceeded the CO2
target, if assets in operation and under construction at project end are taken into account.
The ECPCG is strongly supported by stakeholders (DOE, LGUGC, ECs and financial
institutions) who recognize the success of the program and have urged the Bank to
continue with ECPCG through PHRED. By opening the doors to commercial financing
which was otherwise unavailable for most ECs, ECSLRP has not only provided
opportunities for ECs to gain competitive financing but also contributed to the financial
strengthening and improved management of ECs. ECSLRP has demonstrated that it is a
pioneering and innovative program which has made a critical contribution in
strengthening the EC sector, which in turn facilitated the expansion of electricity access
and provision of more reliable and least-cost power, all of which are key in responding to
GOP’s priorities in the energy sector. In light of the outcomes, and taking into
consideration the impactful benefits arising from ECSLRP, overall rating for PDO is
moderately satisfactory.




                                            17
GEO Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Based on a conservative estimate, ECSLRP achieved an annual reduction in GHG
emissions of 68,481 tons. While this assumes that assets under construction will come
into service, stakeholders are confident that the supported investments will be completed
by early 2015 and that they will make their contribution to overall loss reduction. The
annual energy savings target, measured in GWh, undershot, but this is of lesser
importance given the avoided CO2. The GEO rating is therefore ranked moderately
satisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency

At project appraisal, it was assumed that of the $10 million GEF capital (i.e. Gross
Contingent Grant) used to provide the guarantee, EC defaults would result in a loss of $3
million. Based on this portfolio loss, a Final Net Grant (defined as the Future Value of the
Gross Contingent Grant less losses plus net guarantee fees and interest) was computed.
The difference between the Gross Contingent Grant and the Final Net Grant is the
Incremental (Economic) Cost of the guarantee operation. This approach enabled the
calculation of both a Gross Cost and a Net Cost in $/tonCO2e. As ECPCG had suffered
no loss by program end, the Final Net Grant is substantially larger than Gross Contingent
Grant 1 that was projected, due to the combined effect of compounded interest with no
guarantee calls.

The assumptions in computing benefits of the program were optimistic. The assumption
of a 25% reduction in energy intensity by each investment in an EC was not realistic, as
explained above in which total losses in absolute terms would be in the range of 1-2%. In
addition, it would appear that loss reduction increments were assumed to be constant over
the 15 year lifetime of the assets when total program benefits were estimated at the
project preparation stage. In practice, the loss reduction benefits are driven by significant
“de-loading” of the new network components financed, which means that a new
substation would typically be operated only at a load factor of 20% initially. With load
growth (assumed to be 6% per annum), the new investment loads up again and technical
losses again increase as the square of the increase in load factor. Over a 15 year lifetime,
this is likely to reduce GWh savings by a factor of around 3 times compared to the
uncorrected savings.

Taking the above factors into account, three scenarios were considered as follows:

i)      2004 PAD baseline
ii)     2004 PAD baseline corrected for re-loading
iii)    Projected results assuming full capacity (approximately $70 million in guarantees
        written) could be reached as it would be if ECPCG were extended another year to


1
 At Dec 2013, the Final Net Grant balance was $14.1 million based on balances in the Guarantee Reserve
and Interest Income Accounts.



                                                  18
        allow some portion of the already committed and approved loans (totaling $35.9
        million) to be released and the assets they would finance be brought fully into
        service.

It is important to note that the above analysis distinguishes between what the ICR has
tried to measure as of the close date of ECSLRP, and the overall impact of the
government program, ECPCG, in which GEF has made a substantial investment. The
outcomes, as measured here, are based on the less sophisticated methodology used in the
PAD (as opposed to the analysis in section 3.2) and include only a reasonable estimate of
avoided emissions based on assets financed before Dec 31, 2013. ECPCG, however,
continues to operate and offer guarantees to new projects. The team has made
calculations in this section based on full utilization of ECPCG capital resources (but not
counting re-flows that would occur over time).

The results are summarized in the table below:


                                                                                    Projected, ECPG at
                                              Baseline per 2004 Baseline per 2004
                                      Case                                           full capacity after
                                                     PAD        PAD, corrected **
                                                                                        extension **
                                  Benefits
   Annual GWh savings from loss reduction,
                                                    120                120                 75.6
                          by program end
     GWh savings from loss reduction, over
                                                   1,400               661                  464
                             asset lifetime

       Carbon intensity, tonnesCO2e/MWh            0.450              0.450                1.034


             GHG reductions, tonnes CO2e          629,833            297,375             479,321

                                    Costs
                   Gross Contingent Grant           12.0              12.0                 12.0
   Grant Cost Effectiveness, $/tonneCO2e
                                       *
                                     Gross          19.1              40.4                 25.0
 *The lower the number the better as this means that less money is required to avoid every tonCO2e.
** Corrected for re-loading of the network impacted by the investment with load growth
NB: The annual GWh savings and GHG reduction figures in this table are different from those in section
3.2 as they are based on a less sophisticated methodology which was used in the PAD.


After re-loading correction, the lifetime GWh savings forecast in the PAD would have
been reduced from 1,400 to 661 GWh and carbon benefits would have been reduced by
the same factor, resulting in a substantial increase of gross cost of carbon reduction from
$19.1/ton CO2e to $40.4/tonCO2e.



                                                   19
Assuming that the ECPCG reached full capacity with all financed assets in service,
annual loss reductions are estimated at 75.6 GWh per annum, with program benefits
estimated to be 464 GWh or about 33% of the PAD projection. The gross cost of carbon
reduction was estimated to be $25.0 per ton CO2e compared to the estimated $19.1per ton
CO2e. It should be noted that the underlying assumptions are conservative, related to
expected loss reduction, and do not take into account re-flows that would add to the total
investment supported, over time.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Taking into consideration relevance, efficacy and efficiency (as discussed in the previous
sections), the overall outcome is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. The project and its
outcomes supported GOP’s strategies and priorities in the energy sector and CAS.
ECSLRP has paved the way for greater private sector financing of the EC sector, which is
a substantial contribution not only for the sector, but for the Philippines economy, given
the dependence of public funds for infrastructure. The main drawback of the project was
in its institutional design in which NEA was initially excluded from the program. This
contributed to the slow uptake of the project in its early years. Given the long slog of
implementation, but recognizing the ultimate successes of the project, ECSLRP is rated
moderately satisfactory overall.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

No surveys were carried out on social or gender impacts of the project. However, ECs
provided anecdotes on how ECSLRP had enabled them to connect more consumers and
improve electricity supply reliability, which has helped alleviate poverty, given that rural
consumers now had the option of engaging in productive activities even after dark.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

ECSLRP has transformed the EC sector by opening the doors of commercial funding, and
enhancing ECs’ technical, financial and management capabilities. The latter has come
about through capacity building activities and ECs’ experiences in seeking funding from
the commercial sector which requires higher standards of governance and capacity. ECs
have increasingly exhibited increased confidence in their dealings with commercial banks
and are more aware and open to acquiring technology, which in turn have facilitated the
implementation of sound financial management and good governance practices.

The shift of key financing functions to commercial lenders has allowed ECs to maintain
an arm’s length from political influence on the basis that investments will have to
undergo more critical assessments by the financial sector. In the longer term, this spells
progress for the EC sector that had been dogged by political interference.

ECSLRP has also been instrumental in strengthening commercial banks’ capacity in the
EC sector. Financial institutions were introduced to the EC sector through the program


                                              20
and have been building capabilities to compete to finance ECs’ operations. Financial
institutions’ increasing maturity can be seen in their requests to LGUGC for the provision
of a common EC rating system and a list of best practices of ECs for greater transparency.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

Healthy competition among commercial banks has prompted them to improve their
services by introducing other financial services to ECs and become more innovative. For
example, FIBECO (one of ECs participating in ECPCG) provides customized ATM cards
from its financier (PNB/Allied Banking Corporation) to its consumers for its fee
collections.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

A workshop, with representation from DOE, LGUGC, ERC, ECs and the financial sector
was held on Jan 24, 2014 in Manila to gather feedback on their experiences with ECPCG,
the impact of the program, as well as lessons learnt from the project. Details are given in
Annex 5.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The risk to development outcome is rated moderate. While the risk of GOP changing
direction or focus on expanding electricity access and strengthening ECs is low, the risks
that political influences could impact on the way in which ECs conduct their business
(e.g. ECs are pressured to accelerate electrification, thereby potentially resulting in a
reversal of system losses) is moderate. The risk that ECs’ projects are stalled or even
stopped due to management, operation, financial, resource or technical issues is also
considered low to moderate, given the due diligence and close supervision undertaken by
LGUGC.

The financial landscape marked by high liquidity and lower interest rates was a major
factor that prompted interest of commercial banks in financing ECs’ projects. Should the
financial environment change, credit markets would likely impact ECs’ financing costs
and repayments. Given the expected favorable medium term outlook, this risk to
development outcomes is considered moderate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

In the course of project preparation, the Bank team, comprising staff and consultants with
diverse technical expertise, as well as safeguards and fiduciary staff, provided support to
GOP in designing the project to ensure that it was aligned with GOP priorities and CAS,



                                            21
and that it met the Bank’s technical, financial, economic, fiduciary, social and
environmental standards.

The key issues in project design that affected project progress adversely were the
decision to exclude NEA in the program from project start and the preparation of pipeline
investments on the ground. More efforts could have been made to better understand the
political landscape of the EC sector and to work out how best to make the pipeline of
investments realizable during project design. The latter issue, which appears to be a
common problem in many guarantee programs, should have been tackled prior to project
start.

Even though project objectives were clear and relevant, the Results Framework to
monitor progress could have been less ambiguous with targeted indicators. The
methodology in which system losses and GHG emissions reduction were computed could
also have been clearer and uniform.

Despite the above, the Bank’s design of the guarantee program was right on the mark, as
evidenced by the success of the program. On balance, Bank performance in ensuring
quality at entry is rated moderately unsatisfactory, taking into consideration the impact on
outcomes of the underdeveloped pipeline of projects at project design as well as the
institutional flaw of excluding NEA in ECSLRP.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank carried out 16 supervision missions over the course of the nine and a half year
project life. The Procurement and FM functions were provided by field base staff, who
were responsive to the needs of DOE and LGUGC in providing advice and technical
support, and greatly facilitated project implementation.

In the early years of the project, the Bank had undertaken supervision activities, but these
were not effective owing to the design of the project. A change in the TTL with a fresh
perspective opened the door for more options for restructuring the project at mid-term,
including the revisiting of NEA’s role, which proved to be instrumental in project
performance.

The relevant indicators and targets could have been revised when the project was
restructured in 2011 so as to reflect the more realistic assumptions described in section
3.2.

Supervision missions correctly identified and documented the implementation issues, and
AMs shared with GOP were transparent, candid and direct in highlighting concerns.
Significant challenges were consistently discussed with Bank management, with the latter
providing close guidance to the team on monitoring progress and questioning if the
remaining loan should be cancelled.




                                            22
The Bank team made extensive efforts in working with LGUGC and DOE to identify
challenges and work out follow-up actions to progress the project. Stakeholders lauded
the Bank team, in particular, during the latter years of implementation, as very responsive
and flexible so as to meet the needs of the project as much as possible, which facilitated
the progress of the project.

While the Bank’s performance in the latter years of the project was exemplary, overall,
its performance over the life time of the project is rated moderately satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank’s overall rating is moderately satisfactory taking into account the strong
performance of the project in its last few years of implementation, the moderately
satisfactory outcomes and feedback from stakeholders of the Bank’s strong performance
in the latter years. Calls for the Bank to continue to be involved in a follow-up project is
testament to the Bank’s ability to forge effective relationships with stakeholders.

5.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Prior to project approval, GOP exhibited strong commitment through its preparation of a
sector strategy, and its efforts to undertake policy and institutional reforms in the rural
power sector. The Government satisfactorily met the covenants in the legal agreements
and demonstrated strong commitment to ECSLRP by its efforts in achieving outcomes.

Together with DOE, the Department of Finance co-chaired with DOE an inter-agency
Project Supervisory Committee to provide overall policy direction, guidance and
oversight supervision for the policy and institutional reforms supported under the
program, which was useful in progressing ECSLRP.

The transfer of funds for the Guarantee Reserve Fund Account to PNB (the Fund
manager) was only made 10 months after the project effective date arising from long
internal governmental processes. While the complexity of dealing with multiple
stakeholders is recognized, approval of the transfer of funds could have been undertaken
in a more efficient manner.

Taking in view the above, the government’s performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

DOE – Moderately Satisfactory

DOE was instrumental in bringing stakeholders together, with its commencement of the
monthly DOE and LGUGC Coordination Meetings in 2007 to address issues and
concerns affecting ECSLRP and monitoring of ECPCG Program accounts. These

                                            23
coordination meetings helped to expedite the approval process of ECs participating in
ECPCG Program, thus increasing the number of booked EC accounts.

DOE demonstrated commitment by its efforts in achieving outcomes – it made efforts to
strengthen its capacity and was also effective in providing capacity building to ECs. It
played a strong leadership role in getting LGUGC and NEA to work together following
the mid-term review which identified the exclusion of NEA as a key roadblock towards
the progress of ECSLRP.

In the initial stages of the project, DOE suffered delays in implementing the capacity
building component owing to its lack of capacity in several areas of implementation
support. It was also dependent on consultants for procurement without requiring the
transfer of knowledge to its staff.

On balance, DOE’s performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

LGUGC - Satisfactory

LGUGC’s performance is rated satisfactory. It met 4 out of 5 of its performance
indicators (the only one being IMC transactions, which was eventually dropped) and was
focused in its approach in getting results. LGUGC was effective in its due diligence work
on accrediting commercial banks, and in identifying new projects and monitoring
program activities. Its pragmatic approach and flexibility, as evidenced by its willingness
to share one-third of its management fees with NEA, was key in progressing the program.

LGUGC not only helped strengthen ECs’ capacity through workshops but also provided a
lot of handholding in the form of advice to ECs on their proposals presented to ERC for
approval as well as on ways for ECs to effectively manage their funds. LGUGC
advocated for ECs to follow accounting standards, which are important in paving the way
towards greater governance in the EC sector. LGUGC is highly regarded by ECs which
praised it for being supportive, responsive and accommodating to their needs in the face
of challenges.

LGUGC was instrumental in introducing commercial banks to ECs. It also designed the
EC Borrower Risk Rating System, which ECs rely on in their assessments of credit
worthiness of ECs. Financial institutions lauded LGUGC as cooperative and helpful.

Overall, LGUGC made a major contribution to the EC sector, through its role in
demonstrating ECs as a viable market for commercial lenders. The number of closed
transactions that has exceeded the targets is testament to the efforts of LGUGC in getting
ECSLRP off the ground. In light of these significant achievements, LGUGC’s
performance is rated satisfactory.




                                            24
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

DOE and LGUGC closely managed project implementation and took appropriate actions
to progress the project in their efforts to achieve project objectives. It was their tenacity in
dealing with challenges especially in the latter years of the project that helped change the
direction of the project and which eventually resulted in them exceeding most targets.

Taking into consideration DOE’s shortcomings in the initial years of implementation, on
balance, overall Borrower performance rating is moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

A good understanding of local politics is essential in the design stage to ensure a
successful project. When preparing the program, the Bank should be keenly aware of the
local politics and be realistic when preparing the pipeline of projects. This is a common
issue that has plagued many programs. In the case of ECSLRP, the failure to recognize
the vast influence of NEA over ECs was a key stumbling block towards progress of the
project. It was only after the team recognized this design flaw and engaged NEA as a key
stakeholder did the project take off.

A uniform methodology in computing system losses should be required at project
start. Computing system losses was a complex exercise and based on data from ECs, of
which some were found to be non-credible. Given this, similar Bank financed projects
that require the computation of system losses or similar indices should at project start
require participants in the program to conform to a uniform methodology and
procedures/guidelines. ECs would require capacity building in this aspect given the
complexity of these calculations.

The impact of time lags on outcomes needs to be considered for selected
infrastructure projects. System losses are realized with investments in infrastructure,
most of which will occur over time. In this project, GHG emissions avoided would have
far exceeded the target if the savings at the realization of the investments were taken into
account. In light of this, there may be a need to review how outcomes could be computed,
taking into consideration duration of project implementation.

Distribution projects are not ideal for projects that focus on the reduction of GHG
emissions. In the case of ECSLRP, system losses, and correspondingly carbon emissions,
were limited due to the nature of distribution investments which had at most 2% of losses
per single capex project. Generation projects that focus on renewable energy would
render much lower energy savings and carbon emissions reduction.

PDOs could be more relevant to the development context, rather than focus on
Trust Fund objectives. While the reduction of system losses was a clear area of focus
given that ECSLRP was a GEF project, the Bank could have considered PDOs which
would be more impactful to the needs of the clients. In ECSLRP’s design, other
economic benefits, such as that arising from additional GWh supplied and MW load


                                              25
served, were not considered, which would better reflect the impact of programs on the
clients and their relevance to Governments’ priorities.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
    NA

(b) Cofinanciers
    NA

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

    NA




                                           26
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                                       Actual/Latest
                                          Appraisal Estimate                                     Percentage of
            Components                                                 Estimate (USD
                                           (USD millions)                                         Appraisal
                                                                          millions)
1. Partial Credit Guarantee
                                                      50*                       58.31                   117
Program
2. Capacity Building                                   2.3                       1.63                   71
              Total Project Costs                     52.3                      59.94                   115
      Total Financing Required                        52.3                      59.94                   115
*This figure reflects the eligible EC subproject investments and is separate from the cost of leveraging the ECPCG.

(b) Financing
                                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                  Type of           Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
            Source of Funds
                                                Cofinancing           (USD         (USD      Appraisal
                                                                    millions)    millions)
 Borrower                                                        0.22         0.22         100
 Global Environment Facility (GEF) Grant                         12.00        11.69        97
 Borrowing Country's Fin.
                                                                 37.50             47.00             125
Intermediary/ies
 Local Sources of Borrowing Country                              12.58             11.75             93
Sub-borrower(s)                                                  0.00              0.00              100
Total                                                            62.3              70.66             113

(c) Expense Category Reallocation Table After Restructuring of Project




                                                          27
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Partial Credit Guarantee Program

A snapshot of outputs for component 1 achieved by ECSLRP is given below.

No    Performance Indicator      Closing        Value As       Remarks
                                 Date           of Dec 31,
                                 Require-       2013
                                 ment
1     Total program annual       At least 80     66.2*        >80% achieved. Based on all assets
      energy savings (GWh)                                    financed.
2     Carbon dioxide emissions At least          68,481*      Achieved. Based on all assets financed.
      avoided per year (tons)     40,000
      Cumulative number of        At least 15    19           Achieved.
3     loan guarantees issued
      for Electric Cooperatives
      Cumulative number of        At least 6     0            Not achieved.
      successful investment
4
      management contract
      transactions
      Cumulative value of loan At least 24       46.65        Achieved.
5     guarantees issued
      (US$ millions)
6     Cumulative investment in At least 40       58.31        Achieved.
      Electric Cooperative
      under the Project
      (US$ millions)
7     Total number of             At least 4     5            Achieved.
      commercial banks and
      other private financial
      institutions providing
      loans for investments in
      electric cooperatives
      under the project.
8     Cumulative guarantee        Not more       0            Achieved.
      claim payments under the than 3
      Project (US$ millions)
*Details on the computation of system losses and GHG emissions reductions are given below.



System Loss and GHG Reductions

Introduction

This Annex attempts to estimate the actual system loss and GHG reductions achieved by
ECSLRP and compare them to the per annum targets as approved in the PAD, of 80
GWh and 40,000 tons respectively. In addition the Annex uses a simplified scaling
approach to gross up these per annum reductions had the program end date allowed
sufficient time for the guarantee to reach its full capacity (estimated at $70 million based
on a leverage ratio of 1 : 5), and for all financed assets to be brought into service.



                                                  28
Principles

System losses are the sum of technical and non-technical (sometimes called commercial)
losses. Reduction in systems loss is measured as kWh that do not have to be purchased or
generated. System loss reduction should always be measured in absolute kWh terms.
Percentage system loss is useful only in a rule of thumb sense. Knowing the emissions
factor in tons CO2e/kWh generated allows simple conversion of a reduction in kWh
systems loss to the avoided GHG emissions in tons CO2e.

Capital investments (capex) supported by ECPCG primarily impact technical, not non-
technical losses. Technical losses are due to the physics of electricity – e.g. resistance
loss in a conductor, core losses in a transformer. Investments in upgrading the
specifications of conductors and transformers can reduce technical losses, as can
investments that reduce the length of feeders, that site transformers closer to major
system loads, or that increase feeder voltage levels.

Non-technical losses have a variety of sources including tampering, bypassing, hooking
and other forms of theft, non-recording of low consumption on meters, and errors in
metering and billing. Control of non-technical losses is primarily a management problem,
not an investment one. Some investments e.g. in electronic metering, automated meter
reading (AMR), and sophisticated revenue assurance systems can help reduce non-
technical losses but their primary effect is to capture more revenue, not necessarily
reduce kWh purchased or generated.

Capex projects are also feeder specific – they typically do not affect the whole EC system.
Rehabilitation or strengthening of an EC’s network is normally phased over a number of
years as the loading of individual feeders approaches their maximum capacity.

For these reasons, it is not possible to compare an EC’s total losses from year to year
(even in absolute kWh terms, and certainly not in percentage terms) and claim that all of
any reduction is due to a particular capex project or projects. Equally it is not possible to
directly measure technical losses – these can only be modeled ex-ante using specialist
software. Modeling is data-intensive, complex and time-consuming and not all ECs have
the capability to do system modeling. Ex-post verification of system modeling results is
sometimes possible using feeder metering but in the case of network expansion by
building new feeders, no baseline measurement is possible (and even modeling becomes
challenging).

Addition of large loads must also be interpreted with care – while these have the effect of
“diluting” system losses in percentage terms this is mainly because of their impact on
non-technical not technical loss. Large customers fed directly by express feeders and
metered at the substation by definition have zero technical and non-technical loss. And
while percentage losses are reduced, connection of the large load by definition brings
additional technical losses measured in absolute kWh terms but it is the customer who
now pays for them.



                                             29
Typical EC Technical Losses

Electric cooperatives in the Philippines typically have technical losses in the 7 – 8%
range. If they have very long and / or much overloaded MV feeder lines, technical losses
may go as high as 10 - 12%. The lower limit for technical losses is probably 6% (simply
because resistance loss and transformer losses can never be zero according to the laws of
physics). The maximum reduction in technical loss possible through a single capex
project is likely to be in the range of 1 – 2%.

ECSLRP System Loss Reduction Targets

The approved ECSLRP target for system loss reduction was set at 80 GWh per year by
program end (Dec 2013). The rationale for setting this target is not clear. Comparing 80
GWh to the total kWh purchased or generated of 10,538 GWh by the 67 ECPCG eligible
ECs in 2012 results in a targeted reduction of 0.76%.

At first sight this appears to be credible target. However the capacity of ECPCG program
is currently limited to about $70 million (Php 3.208 2 billion) calculated as 5 X the
available program capital inclusive of interest and other accrued income. At Dec 2013,
released ECPCG loans totaled $58.3 million (Php 2.57 billion) across 18 ECs with NEA
and LGUGC balance sheet guaranteed loans adding another $65.1 million (Php 2.86
billion). ECPCG loan drawdowns were $45.3 million (Php 1.99 billion) or approximately
80% of the released amount. The drawdown from other loan sources is not known with
certainty but at 80% would amount to another $52.1 million (Php 2.29 billion).

The total kWh purchased or generated for these 18 ECs is 2,427GWh. To achieve the 80
GWh target would therefore require a 3.3% reduction in system loss. Grossing up the
generation by 80 / 58.3 would reduce this figure to 2.4% which is still on the high side of
credibility. A more realistic target would have probably been around 50 GWh (equivalent
to 1.5% system loss reduction) per year by program end.

System Loss Reductions Achieved by ECPCG Loans Released by Program End

DOE has documented 3 the system loss reductions reported by each EC as a result of their
ECPCG supported capex investments – see the table below.




2
    An exchange rate of Php 44 per USD is used throughout this annex.
3
    Borrower’s Completion Report, John. C. Placente, Dec 2013


                                                     30
                        Power    System    Loss Reduction     As %
                   Purchases, GWh Loss     Reported, GWh    Purchases                       Notes
Released Loans:
   BENECO                    366   10.8%             5.33     1.5%
   BOHECO-I                  131    7.5%             6.25     4.8%
   BUSECO                    124   11.6%             2.23     1.8%
   CANORECO                  122   10.8%              -                 Not yet energized
   CAMELCO                    17   12.8%              -                 Not yet energized
   DANECO                    174   16.6%              -                 No submission
   FIBECO                    149   12.7%             9.09     6.1%
   FICELCO                    39   16.1%              -                 Construction not yet started
   LEYECO V                  158   13.0%              -                 Not yet energized
   LUELCO                    160   12.0%             0.26     0.2%      Annualized and scaled up from 9 to 14 feeders
   MOELCI-I                   47   13.0%             0.55     1.2%
   MORESCO-I                 144    5.2%             2.93     2.0%      2013, annualized - Canituan, Quibonbon, Moog
   MORESCO-II                 95   11.0%             4.08     4.3%
   NEECO-1                   136   11.8%             0.95     0.7%
   PALECO                    135   10.2%              -                 New account
   PANELCO-I                  87   16.8%             2.02     2.3%
   SOCOTECO-I                188   11.6%             0.19     0.1%
   SURNECO                   155   10.7%              -                 Data submitted in question
Total or Average           2,428   11.5%            33.88     1.4%


The reported GWh loss reductions were obtained ex-post direct from each EC and the
method of their derivation is not always known 4. In three cases 5however (bolded in the
table) the values were obtained by system modeling.

Key findings from the reported results are:
1.     The average total system loss (technical plus non-technical) of ECs with released
       loans is 11.5%. Given that non-technical losses of less than 2 – 3% would be very
       unusual, this supports the typical range for technical losses stated above.

2.       As a % of annual kWh purchased or generated, individual system loss reductions
         vary from 0.1% to 6.1%. Cases significantly in excess of 2% are considered non-
         credible.

3.       Two of the system modeling cases (MORESCO-I and BUSECO) report, and were
         able to validate to some degree with actual system loss data, impacts of 1.8 – 2%.
         In both cases, capex plans were carefully designed to place new transformation
         capacity close to the largest loads in the system. These values likely constitute an
         upper bound on ECSLRP achievements consistent with the theoretical discussion
         above.



4
  Note that LGUGC also employs a technical consultant to do ex-ante due diligence on each proposed
capex investment utilizing ECs’ capex plan submissions to ERC and in some cases system modeling.
Where available, these estimates were reported by DOE. In general these estimates also appear high, grow
very rapidly year on year, and also produce non-credible results before or by 2013 casting doubt on the
methodologies used by ECs in their capex plan submissions.
5
  Two cases were reported by DOE and the third (BUSECO) was obtained during a validation visit as part
of this ICR process.


                                                       31
4.     One of the system modeling results (LUELCO) reports a 0.2% impact from the
       installation of amorphous core transformers casting some doubt on the
       benefit/cost of such investments.

Extrapolating the MORESCO-I and BUSECO cases – assuming 2% loss reductions were
achieved by every project with assets in service in Dec 2013 and simply scaling the
losses accordingly – the estimated achievement of the program (including the co-
financing it has attracted) is 32.6 GWh per year for assets in service at the end of 2013.


Gross Up to Full ECPCG Capacity

Given the $58.3 million (Php 3.75 billion) worth of ECPCG releases and a physical
completion rate (as reported by DOE) of 59.1%, the estimated loss reduction achieved
by the program, counting assets in service and under construction would be:

32.6 X 70 / 58.3 X 100 / 59.1 = 66.2 GWh per year


GHG Reductions Achieved

Converting system loss reduction to GHG reduction is simply a matter of applying the
correct emissions factor. Emissions factors computed as generation weighted averages in
the Luzon, Visayas and Mindanao grids were used for this purpose by DOE. These range
from 0.2 – 0.6 tons CO2e/MWh. However, a more appropriate factor is the marginal
generation emission factor. Unusually in the Luzon-Visayas grid, coal is not base loaded
but is load following. Base load is instead provided by gas and geothermal capacity that
is must run for contractual reasons. This situation will not change for at least a decade. In
the Mindanao grid capacity is short and the deficit will also be filled by new coal projects.
Gas will only be an option in Mindanao if LNG facilities are eventually built or the
transmission link to Visayas is built.

Given that Philippines coal plants today are relatively small and not high efficiency a
factor of 1.03 tons CO2e / MWh is considered more appropriate for calculations at
program end. This would give a ceiling on GHG reductions achieved by program end of
68,481tons against a program target of 40,000 tons.


Conclusions

Measuring the system loss reduction achieved by network investments is a complex and
uncertain process. Ex-ante system modeling, combined if possible with before and after
feeder metering based energy balance, is the most robust estimation approach. It may be
possible to derive some useful rules of thumb based on a large experience base of
modeling results but these would still have to be used with great care.




                                            32
While recognizing that their first and legitimate priority is system expansion and
strengthening to accommodate load growth, ECs should be encouraged to do more
rigorous system modeling and benefit/cost calculations on their proposed capex plans.
ECPCG program could usefully identify investment criteria that would be preferred for
financing as well as investment options that are not very attractive. Obtaining the
maximum GHG reductions / $ invested is certainly the goal of the Global Environmental
Fund and other similar bodies who monitor the cost effectiveness of their investments in
$ / ton CO2e.

From an economic analysis standpoint, measurement of ECSLRP type projects in pure
system loss and GHG reduction terms is over simplistic. Load growth brings economic
benefits and strictly those benefits should be computed and netted off against the
(reduced) economic cost of loss reduction. If loss reduction were the only goal, there
would be no case for adding new load.

Finally, there is also a case for financing more sophisticated loss reduction technologies –
including smart grid investments and real time revenue assurance AMR projects. These
not only have carbon impact but also improve the financial sustainability of the EC (the
revenue impact as well as some cost impact) allowing it to self-finance more of its capex
and releasing carbon financing for other projects.

Component 2: Capacity building and implementation support for key stakeholders

According to the PAD, capacity building activities for DOE, NEA, LGUGC, ECs and
ERC were to be conducted. The number of workshops/training/study tours was not
specified. In all, 21 capacity building activities were undertaken during the lifespan of the
project.




                                             33
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Introduction

This Annex attempts to repeat the economic analysis in the original PAD – which
compared GHG reduction benefits over the entire lifetime of the assets financed by the
program to the incremental economic costs to determine the Grant Cost Effectiveness (or
program efficiency) in $/tons CO2e terms. Calculation of the lifetime benefits uses a more
sophisticated analysis than the simple gross-up approach used in Annex 2. The analysis is
built on the portfolio of overlapping investments financed by the program, corrected for
load growth which, because technical losses increase with system loading, will actually
lower GHG reduction year on year over the lifetime of the asset. This seems not to have
been considered in PAD analysis.

Original Approach to Economic Analysis

Costs

The 2004 PAD included an Incremental Cost Analysis in Annex 4. As initially designed
the proposed partial credit guarantee program would target “Type B” and “Type C” ECs.
Type B ECs were defined as not fully creditworthy but large in size, with high customer
density and with potential for large efficiency gains (i.e. they are high loss, low
collections). Type C ECs were defined as marginally viable and unable to attract private
financing. Together these accounted for about the middle 45% of ECs (about 54 in total).
A 30% loss rate was assumed for this EC target portfolio.

In fact, almost all ECs struggle to attract such financing because of their non-profit nature
based on a cash flow break even tariff methodology with a capex adder. Except for short
term loans or credit facilities secured on customer receivables, most Philippines
commercial banks have traditionally been wary of investing in the EC sector – partly
because they do not understand the EC business and partly because of widespread
governance issues. Recognizing this, for ECPCG, only creditworthy6 ECs are eligible.

The 2004 PAD assumed that of the $10 million GEF capital (the so-called Gross
Contingent Grant) used to provide the guarantee; $3 million would be lost because of
defaulting ECs. Based on this portfolio loss, PAD calculated a Final Net Grant defined as
the Future Value of the Gross Contingent Grant less losses plus net guarantee fees and
interest. The difference between the Gross Contingent Grant and the Final Net Grant is
the Incremental (Economic) Cost of the guarantee operation. This approach enabled
calculation of both a Gross Cost and a Net Cost in $/tons CO2e. As ECPCG has suffered


6
  These are ECs rated by NEA as A+ or A before 2012, and now AAA, AA and A under the new KPS
rating system. In total, there are about 67 of these out of 99 rated ECs and 120 in total. They represent 69%
of total annual 2012 sales of 13,600 GWh.


                                                     34
no loss by program end, the Final Net Grant is substantially larger than Gross Contingent
Grant 7 and a Net Cost therefore cannot be calculated.

On the benefits side, certain key assumptions appear rather optimistic – including a 25%
reduction in energy intensity by each investment in an EC. This would appear to ignore
that total losses include both technical and non-technical, that only non-technical losses
can be strongly influenced by capital investment, and that there are physical limits to the
loss reductions possible which are around 1 - 2% of total losses in absolute terms. These
issues have already been discussed in Annex 2. Estimates of annual loss reductions of
120 GWh by program end in Annex 4 of the PAD are therefore considered very
optimistic. As Annex 2 has argued, even the approved target of 80 GWh is still
considered high and 50 GWh is a more reasonable number.

In addition, in estimated total program benefits, it would appear that loss reduction
increments have simply been assumed constant over the 15 year lifetime of the assets. In
practice, the loss reduction benefits are driven by significant “de-loading” of the new
network components financed. It is typical for a new substation to be operated only at a
load factor of 20% initially. With load growth (assumed to be 6% pa) the new investment
loads up again and technical losses again increase as the square of the increase in load
factor. Over a 15 year lifetime, this is likely to reduce GWh savings by a factor of around
3X compared to the uncorrected savings.

Reworked Economic Analysis

Taking these various factors into account, the economic analysis was reworked on a gross
cost basis with more realistic assumptions for achievable benefits and with correction for
re-loading of the investment. The approach used was a portfolio of overlapping annual
investment “strips” with each strip producing benefits for 15 years, but these benefits
decrease over time with re-loading. The carbon intensity was also increased from the
0.450 tons CO2e/MWh assumed in the 2004 PAD to 1.034 tonsCO2e/MWh based on
displacement of relatively low efficiency coal capacity (again as discussed in Annex 2).

Three cases were considered:
i) the 2004 PAD baseline
ii) the 2004 PAD baseline corrected for re-loading
iii) projected results assuming full capacity (approximately $70 million in guarantees
     written) is reached. ECPCG continues to operate and finance assets and the existing
     resources should be fully committed by the end of 2014.

The results are summarized in the table below:




7
 At Dec 2013, the Final Net Grant balance was $14.1 million based on balances in the Guarantee Reserve
and Interest Income Accounts.


                                                  35
After re-loading correction the lifetime GWh savings forecast in the 2004 PAD are
reduced from 1,400 to 661 GWh (the annual savings at program end was left per the
original assumption). Carbon benefits were reduced by the same factor, again leaving the
carbon intensity as per the original assumption. The gross cost of carbon reductions
jumps from $19.1 to 40.4 $/tons CO2e.

If ECPCG program were extended and allowed to reach full capacity with all financed
assets in service, annual loss reductions are estimated at 75.6 GWh per annum at program
close. This is in broad agreement with the ceiling value of 66.2 GWh per annum
estimated in Annex 2 by the much less robust gross up approach described therein. Total
program benefits are estimated at 464 GWh or about 33% of the original 2004 PAD
projection. However, lifetime GHG reductions of 479,321 tons CO2e are not too far short
of the original 2004 PAD projection (because of the higher carbon intensity assumption).
The gross cost of carbon reduction is therefore also in the same ballpark at $25.0 per ton
compared to the estimated $19.1.




                                           36
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
            Names                          Title                 Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
                                                                     Task Team Leader
Selina Wai Sheung Shum     Lead Financial Analyst              EASEG
                                                                     (2001-2003)
                           Operations Officer: Financial             Financial
Preselyn Abella                                                EAPCO
                           Management                                Management
                                                                     Environmental
Maya Gabriela Villaluz     Operations Officer: Environment     EASES
                                                                     Assessment
Jose Tiburcio Nicolas      Operations Officer: Social Sector
Rene SD. Manuel            Procurement Specialist              COSU Procurement
Karin Nordlander           Lead Counsel                        LEGEA Legal
Patricia Miranda           Lead Counsel                        LEGEA Legal
                                                                     Financial
Hung Kim Phung             Senior Finance Officer
                                                                     Management
Jas Singh                  Energy Efficiency Specialist        EASEG Power Engineer
                           Lead Energy Specialist, Peer
Charles Feinstein                                              EWDES Peer Reviewer
                           Reviewer
                           Senior Financial Officer, Peer
Tomoko Matsukawa                                               PFG      Peer Reviewer
                           Reviewer
                           Senior Regional Coordinator, Peer
Robin Broadfield                                               EASES    Peer Reviewer
                           Reviewer
                           Senior Environmental Specialist,
Robert Crooks                                                  EASES    Peer Reviewer
                           Peer Reviewer
                           Project Finance/Credit Guarantee          Financial
John MacLean                                                   EASEG
                           Specialist (Consultant)                   Management
Arlene Porras              Environmental Consultant            EASEG Environment
Supervision/ICR
                                                                        Task Team Leader
Selina Wai Sheung Shum     Lead Financial Analyst              EASEG
                                                                        (2004-2007)
                                                                        Task Team Leader
Arturo Rivera              Senior Energy Specialist            EASTE
                                                                        (2008-2009)
                                                                        Task Team Leader
Alan Townsend              Senior Energy Specialist            EASWE
                                                                        (2010-Present)
                                                                        ICR Primary
Jeanette Lim               Energy Specialist                   EASWE
                                                                        Author
                                                                        Financial
Preselyn Abella            Senior Finance Officer              CTRLN
                                                                        Management
Victor Dato                Infrastructure Specialist           EASPS    Engineering
                                                                        Financial
Aisha Lanette N. De Guzman Financial Management Specialist     EASFM
                                                                        Management
Samuel Haile Selassie      Senior Procurement Specialist       SARPS    Procurement
Charles A. Husband         Consultant                          ECSEG


                                            37
Rene SD. Manuel                Senior Procurement Specialist      EASR1 Procurement
Tomoko Matsukawa               Senior Financial Officer           TWIFS Peer Reviewer
Shawn Swaranjit Otal           Consultant – Power Engineer        EASIN Power Engineer
Ian Driscall                   Consultant                         EASWE ICR contributor
Jeanette Lim                   Energy Specialist                  EASWE ICR Lead Author
                                                                        Administrative
Galina Menchikova              Program Assistant                  EASTE
                                                                        Support
                                                                        Administrative
Maria Luisa Juico              Program Assistant                  EASIN
                                                                        Support
                                                                        Administrative
Gia Mendoza                    Program Assistant                  EACPF
                                                                        Support
                                                                        Administrative
Mari Anne Trillana             Project Assistant                  EASPS
                                                                        Support


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                  travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                                  12                    70.5
  FY01                                                   2                    11.7
  FY02                                                   8                    37.0
  FY03                                                  20                   134.0
  FY04                                                  15                   126.1
                               Total:                                        379.3
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                                   9                    53.2
  FY06                                                  10                    64.1
  FY07                                                  13                    78.2
  FY08                                                  10                    61.0
  FY09                                                  15                    84.8
  FY10                                                   8                    43.3
  FY11                                                  11                    59.1
                               Total:                   76                   443.7




                                                   38
Annex 5. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

An ECSLRP ICR Workshop was held on Jan 24, 2014 in Manila. About 55 participants
from implementing agencies ECs and financial institutions participated at the workshop.
At the event, DOE and LGUGC shared their experiences in ECSLRP, their journey in
achieving outcomes and lessons learned. ECs and financial institutions also articulated
their views on the program, as well as roadblocks they faced and benefits arising from the
program.

The presentations by LGUGC and the Bank’s consultant as well as the full list of
participants are provided in project files.




                                           39
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


DOE Report on Project Implementation Assessment

Introduction

1. The ECSLRP is a project approved on April 29, 2004 and became effective on
November 5, 2004, with a total project component amount of US$ 12.00 Million. The
project has two components. The first is (1) implementation of a Partial Credit Guarantee
Program (PCG) through the establishment of a Guarantee Reserve Account for
guaranteeing commercial loans to electric cooperatives (ECs) and non-EC investors of up
to 80% of their loans. The government has selected the LGU Guarantee Corporation
(LGUGC) as the Guarantee Program Manager for the PCG. The second component is (2)
for Capacity Building and Implementation Support(CBIS) which is intended to provide
funding for the activities under the program, including technical assistance, training,
study tours and workshops for DOE, LGUGC, NEA, ERC and ECs.

2. The ECPCG is supported by a total amount of US$ 10.00 Million deposited in
accounts held in escrow by the Philippine National Bank (PNB). The CBIS program is
funded by a total amount of US$ 2.0 Million, in which US$1.123 Million is allocated to
DOE and US$ 0.877 Million is for LGUGC program support.

A. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives

3. The main objective of the ECSLRP is to achieve significant and sustained energy
efficiency improvements in ECs to provide EC customers with reliable and least-cost
power supply over the long term. Along with the expected energy efficiency
improvements in EC/rural power distribution sub sector is the global objective of
reducing the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.

B. Achievement of Objectives and Performance of Grant Recipients

4. Table 1(A) and Table 1(B) detail the performance of DOE and LGUGC as grant
recipients. The DOE achieves four (4) closing date requirements particularly on
providing capacity building support for the ECSLRP stakeholders. However, the direct
impact project savings on SL and GHG were not yet met primarily due to the reasons
listed in this report. Though the case is such, the grant recipients agree, that eventually,
the savings are expected to be met once the projects of the EC participants are completed.
The DOE, as the oversight of the Project implementation, has introduced innovations to
facilitate the engagement and support of the major stakeholders as the project progressed
such as regular coordination meetings to identify the necessary support to LGUGC and
NEA.

5. LGUGC has successfully achieved the five (5) closing date requirements on the
performance indicators, except for the IMC requirement, which has been agreed to be


                                            40
discontinued from being supported in the program implementation due to challenges
beyond the control of the project.

6. There are 18 ECs which participated in the ECPCG Program with a total of 19 loan
accounts (Table 2). There are seven (7) ECs from Luzon, two (2) from Visayas and nine
(9) from Mindanao. The program supports 147 projects. Eighty two (82) projects have
direct impact to system loss reduction; 60have indirect impact and five (5) are
categorized as other projects.

7. At ECSLRP closing date, the EC overall project completion rate is 59.11%. Out of 82
projects with direct impact to system loss reduction, 32 projects were completed while 38
projects were either fully or partially earning system loss savings. There were 19indirect
system loss reduction projects and two (2) other projects completed.

8. Based on the completed direct impact projects, a total of 33.17 GWh of energy has
been saved from system loss reduction project which is equivalent to 15,244.88 metric
tons of GHG/CO2 emission avoided. The goal at the end of the project was to achieve 80
GWh and 40,000 tons of CO2 avoided. This particular indicator was not realized at
closing date due to several potential reasons, namely, (1) program primarily kicked off
acceptance of the EC sector only on 2010; (2) there are only 38 direct impact projects
earning savings thus the target energy savings from 2010 to 2012 was not met; and (3) as
this is the first World Bank supported system loss reduction project in the Philippines,
there may be a need to review if the closing date requirements are achievable based on
duration of implementation and project strategies.

9. Though the system loss (SL) and greenhouse gas (GHG) closing date requirements
were not met, the grant recipients are optimistic that the implementation of the project
will earn more efficiency savings in the coming years and consequently will contribute to
the global objective of reducing emissions.

10. The program supported 21 trainings and study tours aimed at improving the
efficiency of the different agencies participating on the ECPCG. The grant recipients
deem necessary to provide continuous competency building workshops, especially for
ECs, to further and continuously improve the sector in both technical and management
aspects. To be very specific, the DOE and the ECs are primarily looking at having more
support related to information technology, project management, stakeholder
management, business continuity, technical design workshops for energy efficiency and
planning.

C. Major Factors Affecting the Project

11. The full support of NEA to the ECPCG has been the primary key towards the
acceptance of the program in the EC sector. The barriers in the implementation were
fully understood the moment the DOE and LGUGC collaborated with NEA on the loan
and implementation agreements.




                                           41
12. The implementation of IMC Program was discontinued. Several barriers on the
implementation were identified in the ECSLRP Mid-Term Report (June 2004 to June
2009) and among them were primarily the (1) IMC investors inability to turnaround EC
operations due to the deteriorating financial situations of the pilot ECs and (2) low
willingness and inability of private investors to submit high quality IMC bids and secure
sufficient equity.

13. There is a need to conduct assessment regarding the individual EC’s project
implementation performance as against the project schedule. Some ECs indicated several
right-of-way and zoning problems as reasons why some of projects are not fully
energized. Some ECs also indicated lack of construction materials, delivery issues and
failed bidding as causes of delays on implementation. As to whether the ECs follow the
planned implementation schedules, and on whether the ECs are meeting their
construction deadlines, the grant recipients have no full or reliable information to
establish the facts. This is one aspect of the ECPCG that immediately need to be
addressed to avoid risks in project sustainability. There were recommended actions
contained in the Project Completion Report.

14. Another factor affecting the project is the establishment of a standard procedure or
guideline in the calculation of system loss and GHG savings. ECs have different
methodologies in the savings estimation or calculation, different software was used and
most have on-going calculations. A standard procedure for the actual savings calculation
will facilitate timely delivery of necessary information on the key indicators to LGUGC
and DOE in accordance to the ECSLRP Grant Agreement.

15. The policy and the regulatory environment are fully supportive of the Project
objectives. Even then, the ECs enrolled under the ECPCG Program need to comply with
the required regulatory approval process of the ERC.

D. Project Sustainability

16. There is a need to conduct assessment establishing facts on whether the ECs
allocated budget for maintenance and continuous developments of the projects. One of
the reasons being seen as to why it is so is because most of the ECs are still on the
construction/implementation stage of the projects. The grant recipients have yet to
determine the project sustainability as they are still being completed.

17. The ECs are regularly filing five (5) year CAPEX plan to the ERC to sustain the
objectives of improving system loss and reliability. The DOE and ERC are supportive of
EC’s projects that will result to energy efficiency improvements.

18. The government framework/rules on the continuous or progressive implementation
and partnership with the ECs on system loss reduction projects are on-going. Good
governance to include transparency, accountability and responsibility, among others, will
have to be observed by the parties involved.




                                           42
E. Bank Performance

19. Accredited financial institutions find comfort in the ECPCG and with NEA’s step-in
rights/supervisory powers over the ECs which facilitated their internal approval
processes. The Grant recipients’ assessment on participating banks is satisfactory. There
were no issues specified by the ECs on the loan releases.

20. The banks are informed on the progress of the projects. The grant recipients invite
the banks for regular inspections and the banks send representatives to determine
progress. The banks are also member of the Project Monitoring Board (PMB) and are
invited to other stakeholders meetings.

F. Assessment of Outcomes

21. The savings calculation based on simulations and actual billing information reveal
that there are energy savings from the projects implemented. However, the results reveal
that the targets identified in the technical due diligence and EC CAPEX documents are
higher than the simulated values.

22. The grant recipients agree that, as of time provided, the SL and GHG savings
expectations on the Project Appraisal Document were not yet met. Based on the current
results, the grant recipients suggest a review of the closing date requirements to
determine whether the values agreed upon may be too high considering the challenges
that need to be hurdled by the project during the entire duration of implementation and
the scale of the EC projects.




                                           43
                         PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES

                             TABLE 1(A)
           PHILIPPINE GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS

                                                  Value As of
                                Closing Date
No   Performance Indicator                       December 31,        Remarks
                                Requirement
                                                     2013
                                                                Based on completed
     Total program annual                                       projects with direct
1                                At least 80        33.17
     energy savings (GWh)                                          impact to SL
                                                                     reduction.
                                                                Based on completed
     Carbon dioxide
                                                                projects with direct
2    emissions avoided per         40,000         15,244.88
                                                                   impact to SL
     year (tons)
                                                                     reduction.
     Monitoring and
     evaluation of the Credit
3                               Completed         Completed          Achieved
     Guarantee Program by
     DOE
     Training and
     workshops for DOE
4    and NEA on investment      Completed         Completed         Achieved.
     management contract
     transactions
     Training, study tours
     and workshops for the
5                               Completed         Completed         Achieved.
     Energy Regulatory
     Commission.
     Training, study tours
6    and workshops for          Completed         Completed         Achieved.
     electric cooperatives




                                            44
                                TABLE 1(B)
                      LGUGC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS

                                  Closing Date    Value As of
No     Performance Indicator                                          Remarks
                                  Requirement    Dec. 31, 2013
     Cumulative number of
1    loan guarantees issued for    At least 15        19             Achieved.
     Electric Cooperatives
                                                                 No IMC
     Cumulative number of
                                                                 transactions due to
     successful investment
2                                  At least 6         0          challenges beyond
     management contract
                                                                 the control of the
     transactions
                                                                 project.
     Cumulative value of loan
3    guarantees issued (US$       At least 24       47.50            Achieved.
     millions)
     Cumulative investment in
4    Electric Cooperative under   At least 40       59.38            Achieved.
     the Project (US$ millions)
     Total number of
     commercial banks and
     other private financial
5    institutions providing        At least 4         5              Achieved.
     loans for investments in
     electric cooperatives under
     the project.
     Cumulative guarantee
                                 Not more than
6    claim payments under the                         0              Achieved.
                                       3
     Project (US$ millions)

Note: Foreign Exchange rate of US$=PhP43.21




                                          45
                                       TABLE 2
                              ECPCG PROGRAM RECIPIENTS

No
                      Electric Cooperative                            Address
 .
                                                         Alapang, La Trinidad, Benguet,
1      Benguet Electric Cooperative, Inc. (BENECO)
                                                         Luzon
                                                         Cabulijan, Tubigon, Bohol,
2      Bohol I Electric Cooperative, Inc. (BOHECO I)
                                                         Visayas
       Bukidnon Second Electric Cooperative, Inc.        ManoloFortich, Bukidnon,
3
       (BUSECO)a/                                        Mindanao
       Camarines Norte Electric Cooperative, Inc.        Magallanes Ilaod, Daet,
4
       (CANORECO)                                        Camarines Norte, Luzon
                                                         Pandan, Mambajao, Camiguin
5      Camiguin Electric Cooperative, Inc. (CAMELCO)
                                                         Province, Mindanao
       Davao del Norte Electric Cooperative, Inc.        KM 100 Montevista, Compostela
6
       (DANECO)                                          Valley Province, Mindanao
       First Bukidnon Electric Cooperative, Inc.         Anahawon, Maramag, Bukidnon,
7
       (FIBECO)                                          Mindanao
       First Catanduanes Electric Cooperative, Inc.      Marinawa, Bato, Catanduanes.
8
       (FICELCO)                                         Luzon
9      Leyte V Electric Cooperative, Inc. (LEYECO V)     Ormoc City, Leyte
                                                         Sta. Rita East, Aringay, La Union,
10     La Union Electric Cooperative, Inc. (LUELCO)
                                                         Luzon
       Misamis Occidental I Electric Cooperative, Inc.   Calamba, Misamis Occidental,
11
       (MOELCI I)                                        Mindanao
       Misamis Oriental I Rural Electric Service         Laguindingan, Misamis Oriental,
12
       Cooperative, Inc. (MORESCO I)                     Mindanao
       Misamis Oriental II Rural Electric Service        Medina, Misamis Oriental,
13
       Cooperative, Inc. (MORESCO II)                    Mindanao
       Nueva Ecija I Electric Cooperative, Inc. (NEECO
14                                                       Malapit, San Isidro, Nueva Ecija
       I)
                                                         Tiniguiban, Puerto Princesa City,
15     Palawan Electric Cooperative, Inc. (PALECO)
                                                         Palawan.
       Pangasinan I Electric Cooperative, Inc.
16                                                       San Jose, Bani, Pangasinan
       (PANELCO I)
       South Cotabato I Electric Cooperative, Inc.
17                                                       Matulas Koronadal City
       (SOCOTECO I)
       Surigao del Norte Electric Cooperative, Inc.      Narciso St. Corner Espina St.
18
       (SURNECO)                                         Surigao City
 a/
      BUSECO is a recipient of two (2) loan guarantees under the ECPCG Program.




                                              46
Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


NA




                                    47
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents


Republic of the Philippines, Electric Cooperative System Loss Reduction Project: Borrower’s
Final Report, Submitted by the Department of Energy, March 2, 2014

Republic of the Philippines, Electric Cooperative System Loss Reduction Project Borrower’s
Report, Submitted by the Department of Energy, March 24, 2014

Republic of the Philippines, Electric Cooperative System Loss Reduction Project: Mid-Term
Report (June 2004-June 2009), September 1, 2009

Republic of the Philippines, Philippine Development Plan 2011-2016, May 30, 2011

Republic of the Philippines, Philippines Energy Plan 2004-2013, 2004

The World Bank, Aide-Memoires and ISRs for the Electric Cooperative System Loss Reduction
Project from 2004 to 2013

The World Bank, Electric Cooperative System Loss Reduction Project: Project Appraisal
Document (Report No. 26517-PH), April 2, 2004

The World Bank, Electric Cooperative System Loss Reduction Project Restructuring Paper
(Report No. 64978-PH), May 5, 2011

The World Bank, Electric Cooperative System Loss Reduction Project: Trust Fund Grant
Agreement between LGU Guarantee Corporation and the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development, May 5, 2004

The World Bank, Electric Cooperative System Loss Reduction Project: Trust Fund Grant
Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines and the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development, May 5, 2004

The World Bank, International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International
Finance Corporation and Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency: Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) Progress Report for the Republic of the Philippines, (Report No. 61274-PH),
April 20, 2011

The World Bank, Memorandum of the President of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development and the International Finance Corporation to the Executive Directors on a Country
Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the Republic of the Philippines (Report No.
24042-PH), April 30, 2002.




                                              48
MAP




      49
