 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14670

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                         Date Posted: 06/17/2015

               Country: Philippines
             Project ID: P066532                                                    Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Electric Cooperative           Project Costs (US$M):                      62.3               70.66
                         System Loss
                         Reduction Project
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                      12.00               11.69
      Sector Board:      Energy and Mining             Cofinancing (US$M):                          0                   0

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                 04/29/2004
                                                              Closing Date:              12/31/2011          12/31/2013
          Sector(s):        Power (100%)
          Theme(s):         Climate change (67% - P); Infrastructure services for private sector development (33% - S)


Prepared by:                Reviewed by:      ICR Review                       Group:
                                              Coordinator:
Richard L. Berney           Ramachandra Jammi Christopher David                IEGPS1
                                              Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The PAD states that “The main objective of the project is to achieve significant and sustained energy efficiency
improvements in electric cooperatives (ECs) in order to provide current and prospective viable EC customers with
reliable and least-cost power supply over the long term.” (PAD page 2)

 GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement states that “The objective of the project is to assist the Recipient [the Local
Government Unit Guarantee Corporation (LGUGC)] in promoting energy [efficiency] improvements for the provision of
reliable and least-cost power supply and the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions and other pollutants through
commercial lending and private investment in electric cooperatives.” (page 19)

This latter statement of objectives is used for the evaluation


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
 The Project consists of:

Part A: Partial Credit Guarantee Program - (Appraisal GEF: US$10 million; Actual: US$10 million):
This program had two independent components, each with its own distinct objective.

 The first component was a Credit Guarantee Program (CGP) for guaranteeing Commercial Bank loans to Electric
Cooperatives (EC). Its goal was to attract commercial lenders to finance EC investments, thereby demonstrating the
viability of commercial project finance for ECs.

The second component was a Partial Risk Guarantee Program (PRG) for Commercial Bank loans with extended loan
maturities (10-15 year), needed to finance power distribution system upgrades within the context of the newly devised
private sector Investment Management Contracts (IMC). These IMCs were created for private companies that
operate financially insolvent ECs taken over by the Government.

Part B: Capacity Building and Implementation Support (Appraisal GEF: US$ 2.0 million; Actual: US$1.7 million);
This component supported the strengthening the project implementation capacity of the Department of Energy and
LGUGC including technical assistance, training, study tours and workshops for financial intermediaries, ECs, EC
investors, the Energy Regulatory Commission and the Electrification Administration.

The second component of Part A (the PRG support for private sector IMCs), was dropped after the mid-term review
when it was confirmed that, while the IMC’s framework was still sound and relevant to ECs’ needs, it was not suitable
for ECs that required large amounts of investments to attain financial turnaround.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 The total cost, of the energy savings investments in the EC's distribution systems was US$70.7 million, of which
US$59.9 million was supported by the project’s guarantee program.

Projects Financing included (i) the GEF disbursed US$11.6 million of its original US$12 million commitment; (ii)
Philippines official development financial intermediaries contribution of US$47 million, up from initial project estimates
of US$37.5 million; and (iii) an additional US$11.8 million came from other local lending institutions. The Bank
disbursed the funds into the account of the implementing agency, ECPCG, in two $5-million tranches, one shortly
after effectiveness of the project and one when new capital resources were needed in 2011.”

The Borrower Contribution was US$0.3 million for support activities.

Dates: The project was made effective on schedule in November 2004. It was expected to be completed in just over
seven years, and to close at the end of 2011. Closing was extended by two years, and closed at the end of 2013

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High: - At the time of project approval in 2004, the Government of Philippines (GOP) was in the process of
undertaking a series of reforms in the rural power sector to enable the supply of reliable and competitively priced
electricity. The Electric Cooperatives (EC), which were responsible for the rural power sector, were plagued by high
system losses, which was symptomatic of their lack of funds and under-investments while they continued to expand
their systems to extend energy access to the poor. The project was a response to multiple barriers faced by ECs in
securing financing for system loss reduction investments, especially their limited creditworthiness which essentially
closed the door on affordable commercial financing of efficiency improvements. The effects of ECs’ low levels of
efficiency were not only felt in the power sector - they had major implications on the Philippines’ greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions levels.

The global objective of Global Environment Facility (GEF) supports improvements in efficiency of energy generation,
distribution and utilization and thereby reduce GHG emissions. This was to be achieved by reducing energy losses in
the rural power distribution sub-sector through the removal of financial barriers for energy efficiency investments. The
project was expected to help GOP to achieve its objective of transforming ECs into competitive, efficient and
financially viable organizations. These country and sector objectives were, and still are closely aligned to the
objectives of the GEF.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial: - Project design was compatible with the project’s overriding objective of generating CO2 output
reductions by getting commercial lenders into the EC market to finance energy efficiency investments that would
produce energy savings in the rural distribution system. The partial risk guarantees were designed to assist
commercial banks to extend loan maturities and reduced collateral requirements by mitigating borrower credit risks,
thereby making these investments more attractive to Energy Cooperatives.

The second project component was to achieve the objective of reducing energy demand by providing long term
financing for rehabilitating failing ECs where management had been transferred to private sector entities under
Investment Management Contracts (IMCs). Under these IMCs the investors were to be responsible for mobilizing
financing for capital investments. The second component of the project was designed to support the investor's
commercial borrowing requirements through a Partial Risk Guarantee Program.
The results framework and outcome and intermediate outcome indicators were appropriate as discussed in section
10a on M&E design below.

 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   Objective 1: Reducing carbon dioxide emissions and other pollutants by promoting energy efficiency improvements
for reliable and least-cost power supplies through commercial lending to Energy Cooperatives (ECs). Substantial

Outputs:
  Five commercial banks and other private financial institutions providing loans for investments in electric
    cooperatives under the project, compared with the target of four such institutions.
  The project supported 19 Partial Credit Guarantees (PCGs) for ECs, for a cumulative total of US$46.7 million, for
    Electricity Cooperatives, compared with the target of 15 PCG for a target amount of US$24 million.
  The total value of loan guarantees issued was US$46.7 million, more than double the target of US$24 million.
  The total investment in ECs under the project was US$58.3 million, almost 50% greater than the target of US$40
    million
  21 training sessions and study tours aimed at improving the efficiency of the stakeholders participating in the
    program were conducted.

Outcomes:
  The target for annual energy savings was for at least 80 GWh by project end. The actual outcome was 66 GWh
    saved, based on all assets financed by the project.
  The target for the energy savings translates into at least 40,000 tons of CO2 emissions avoided annually by
    project end. The ICR uses a complex analysis to conclude that the actual avoided CO2 emissions was 68,482
    tons CO2. However, this outcome, in which energy saving was 17.5 percent lower than projected, but CO2
    emission savings was 71 percent greater than projected, seems somewhat counter-intuitive. While the ICR’s
    re-analysis of CO2 emissions avoidance appears to be reasonable, its assumptions about the relationships
    between energy savings and CO2 emissions avoidance are very different from, and not comparable to the
    assumptions used in the analysis in the PAD. As a result, the two CO2 emissions avoidance figures cannot be
    use for the purpose of evaluation of project outcome relative to the project’s original target.
  There have been no guarantee claim payments under the Project, compared with an expected target of not more
    than US$3 million.

Objective 2: Reducing carbon dioxide emissions and other pollutants by promoting energy efficiency improvements
through private sector investment in ECs: Negligible

Output: The program for establishing Management Contracts failed to attract any private investors.

Outcome: No PCGs were implemented in this component, so there were no benefits.

The M&E design did not include any specific indicators for assessing reliability and least-cost power supply.

 5. Efficiency:
    Modest:
At appraisal, it was assumed that of the $10 million GEF capital used to provide the guarantee; $3 million would be
lost because of defaulting ECs. While the grant recipients have yet to determine the sustainability of the financed
projects which are still being completed, there have been no defaults to date. As a result, as of Dec 2013, the Final
Net Grant balance available for guarantees was $14.1 million (including interest income). These funds will be
rolled-over into new loan guarantees as the original loans are paid off.

The economic rate of return is more difficult to evaluate with the limited data available to date. Annual GWh project
savings were 120 GWh from the PAD, which corresponds to an economic cost of US$19.1 per ton CO2. The ICR’s
revised projections of savings at full capacity after extension, corrected for re-loading of the network by investment
with network growth, was only 76 GWh, with an associated grant cost effectiveness of US$25.0 per ton CO2.
However, the GEF Grant funds will continue to be rolled over as loans are repaid. The long term economic benefits
are likely to be substantially greater than the benefits from the first round of project financing.

The project failed to produce any results during its first five years (2004 to 2009). In the restructuring which took place
in 2009, the supervision team redesigned the project in a manner that provided a role for the National Electrification
NEA in the project implementation process. Within six months of the signing of a co-financing agreement between
NEA and the original project sponsor, (the LGU Guarantee Corporation), three loan guarantees, amounting covering
US$6 million, were booked, supporting about $8-9 million in total investments, with more to follow in the following
three years.
 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        No
    ICR estimate                     No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The relevance of objectives is rated high, while the relevance of design is rated substantial. Efficacy of the first
sub-objective was substantial while that of the second sub-objective was negligible. Efficiency is rated modest mainly
due to the long initial delay before any significant disbursements and project implementation commenced.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
    The loan guarantee program has been successful, in that to date there have not been any defaults or calls for
guarantee payments In this sense, the risks have proved to be low. Although not mentioned in the ICR, it would be
normal to expect that energy savings from system upgrades are expected to be maintained.

The ICR states that the risk of the government changing direction or focus on expanding electricity access and
strengthening ECs is low The risk that ECs’ projects are stalled or even stopped due to management, operation,
financial, resource or technical issues is also considered low to moderate, given the due diligence and close
supervision undertaken by LGUGC.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The design of the first component failed to include a role for the National Electrification Administration (NEA),
an organization that was central to the investment planning of the ECs. It did not consider that NEA would not
support a financing process in which it had no role. As a result, the lending guarantee program lay dormant for
five years, until it was redesigned during restructuring to include the NEA.

The Appraisal team misread the private sector's interest in undertaking implementation contracts in failing ECs,
and investing in them to turn them around . This program had not been tested in the Philippines. .There weren't
any specific private sector operations lined up before the project was approved, The approach, proved to be
untenable. No private sector entities came forward to undertake such an operation.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                         Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
     It took five years, during which no progress was made in the GEF supported lending program to gain traction,
for the supervision team to decide that the project needed to be restructured. The Midterm review was delayed a
year. However, the restructured project improved the pace of implementation.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                  Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :                Moderately Unsatisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    Prior to project approval, Government exhibited strong commitment through its preparation of a sector strategy
and its efforts to undertake policy and institutional reforms in the rural power sector. The Government satisfactorily
met the covenants in the legal agreements and demonstrated strong commitment to ECSLRP by its efforts in
achieving outcomes.

The Department of Energy (DOE) demonstrated commitment by its efforts to strengthen its own capacity and in
supporting capacity building to ECs. It played a strong leadership role in getting the primary implementing agency
(LGUGC) and the National Electrification Agency (NEA) to work together following the mid-term review which
identified the exclusion of NEA as a key roadblock towards the progress of ECSLRP.

   Government Performance Rating                               Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
      Overall, LGUGC made a major contribution to the EC sector, through its role in introducing commercial
banks to ECs, and, by designing a EC Borrower Risk Rating System, which the Commercial Banks could rely on
for their assessments of credit worthiness of ECs, demonstrating that the ECs constituted viable market for
commercial lenders. LGUGC was effective in its due diligence work on accrediting commercial banks, and in
identifying new projects and monitoring program activities. Its pragmatic approach and flexibility, as evidenced by
its willingness to share one-third of its management fees with NEA, was key in progressing the program.

LGUGC did not maintain a repository of the environmental safeguards documents for the financed subprojects.
Nor did it replace the officer responsible for safeguards after the original safeguards officer was re-assigned.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   Performance indicators to address quantity and quality of the credit guarantee program were appropriate and
measurable. The results framework included appropriate Intermediate Indicators, including:(i) The number and total
value of loans that were guaranteed: (ii) The amount of guarantee claim payment on defaulted loans; and (iii) The
number of investments in management contracts implemented.

The Outcome Indicator of avoided CO2 emission, and the associated (and more directly measurable) indicator of
annual energy savings, were appropriate ones. However, the PAD should have clearly specified the methodology for
assessing the CO2 reduction in relationship to the reduction in energy savings for each investment.

The M&E design discussed but did not include any specific indicators for the social and economic impact of rural
electrification. The capacity building component could have included more specific measures to capture absorption
and use of the training provided.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   . Data on energy savings and GHG emissions avoided was made available through participating ECs. The
methodology for computing these could have been standardized to enhance credibility of data, especially in light of
the complexity of such data collation exercises, as well as the capacity of ECs. In some cases, system losses reported
by ECs were deemed non-credible as the figures exceeded the technical norms, thus complicating the computation of
outcomes.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   PDO level indicators and triggers were monitored by DOE, LGUGC and the Bank and were also regularly recorded
in Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) and Aide Memoires to monitor project implementation progress and make
decisions. Discussions were held at numerous review missions as to the possibility of project cancellation given the
lack of progress in meeting PDO indicators until the project took off in 2010.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest
11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
Two social safeguards were triggered - OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement and OP 4.20, Indigenous Peoples.
Safeguards policies and procedures relating to land acquisition and compensation, and engagement of project
affected Indigenous Peoples (IP) were complied with at the project level. ECs made great efforts to avoid acquiring
land that would displace dwelling structures and in cases where vacant land was acquired for the construction of
infrastructure, the outright sale approach between willing buyer and seller was adopted.

Environmental Safeguards policy OP 4.01 was triggered for all sub-projects. Environmental Impact Assessment
reports were prepared the sub-project sponsors and an Environmental Compliance Certificate was secured from the
Department of Environment and Natural Resources prior to project mobilization. The environmental risks for these
sub-projects were minimal and appropriate mitigating measures were in place to address potential hazards. Projects
assessed by the safeguards team were found to be managed and operated in an environmentally sound manner and
there were no incidences of violations of the government’s environmental standards. However, the central files of the
LGUGC have no record of regular monitoring of the environmental performance of the projects. This failure of
recording of regular monitoring may be the result of the fact that the original officer responsible for safeguards was
re-assigned and not replaced.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
DOE substantially complied with financial covenants, including the submission of the quarterly Interim Financial
Reports and annual audited project financial statements. Three out of eight audit reports had qualified opinions.
However, the audit findings and the reasons for qualifications did not result in ineligible expenditures, and were
properly addressed by DOE. Systems of internal controls were found to be generally sufficient and adequate
throughout the life of the project.

LGUGC substantially complied with the financial covenants, including the timely submission of the quarterly financial
reports and annual audited project and entity financial statements. Both the audited project and entity financial
statements had unqualified opinions and were acceptable to the Bank. There were no accountability and internal
control issues and only minor delays in the submission of audit reports. And there were no serious procurement
issues under the Project, with any deficiencies noted being corrected.

 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
The implementation of the project has led to a gradual change in ECs’ view on financing. Before the project they
depended completely on public funding through NEA. Subsequently several ECs have initiated efforts to obtain
commercial financing for their investments. On the financing supply side, increased knowledge and experience in
working with EC institutions has increased commercial banks’ risk appetite for providing further to ECs.

In addition, competition among the participating commercial banks has prompted them to improve their services by
introducing other financial services to ECs and become more innovative. For example, one of commercial banks is
providing its participating ECs with customized ATM cards to its consumers for fee collections.

d. Other:
None


12. Ratings:                              ICR                IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                Moderately             Shortcomings in efficacy and efficiency
                              Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                  Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                Moderately             It took five years for the Bank to
                              Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory         restructure the project so that it would
                                                                               begin to produce results.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                Moderately             .
                              Satisfactory              Satisfactory
              Quality of ICR:                           Satisfactory
NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    A good understanding of interrelationships and interactions of relevant local institutions is essential for
     designing a successful project . In this project, the failure to recognize the strong influence of NEA over ECs
     was a key stumbling block towards progress of the project. It was only after the team recognized this design
     flaw and engaged NEA as a key stakeholder did the project take off.

    The Appraisal team needs to be realistic in its assumption about private sector intentions . In this project, the
     assumptions about the interest of private sector actors to take on management of failing EC were unrealistic,
     so the theoretical pipeline never materialized.

    A uniform methodology for computing improvements in system loss for transmission and distribution
     investment project and for translating these energy saving into CO 2 savings should be established at
     Appraisal. In this project the computations of system losses was based on data from ECs, much of which was
     of unreliable value.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR was generally well written and is results-oriented. Its evidence was clear. However, while the revision of the
estimate of CO2 saving was highly detailed, its usefulness as an indicator of project success was limited by the fact
that the methodology and resulting outcome was not comparable with the PAD targets.
Analysis of the project's problems with regard to the institutional arrangements was well documented.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
