Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7908
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALI
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1134-MLI)
JUNE 30, 1989
Industry and Energy Division
Technical Department
Africa Regional. Office
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used by recipients only in the performance ef



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEICIP          Bureau d'Etude Industrielle et de Cooperation de
l'Institut Frangais du Petrole
DNGM            Direction Nationale de l'Energie et des Mines
DNME            Direction Nationale de l'Hydrolique et de l'Energie
OPEC            Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
SNC             Surveyor, Nehniger and Chevevert
SiW.A           Societe Nationale Elf-Aquitaine
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
Currency: CFA Francs
Value of SDR in CFA Francs
1981       1982        1983       1984       1985        1986
Average    Average    Average    Average    Average       April
334.5      370.9      464.0       470.1      415.25       410
FISCAL YEAR
Fiscal Year:               January 1st, December 31st



FOR OFFICIAL US ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington. DC '0433
USA
Ocke n Obc,tt CA.wai
Opatum I% au NeI
June 30, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Mali
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (Credit 1134-MLI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Mali Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (Credit 1134-
MLI)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
o their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FO  OFFCIA  US ONJLY
THE WOtLD SANK
Washington. D.C 20433
U.SA
Obce of OKWIcM.Cenw
June 30, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SIT&JECT: Project Completion Report on Mali
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (Credit 1134-MLI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Mali Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (Credit 1134-
MLI)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office.  No audit of this project has
been wade by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFIL oUS ONLY
HALl
Petroleum Xzploration Prno tion Project
Credit 1134-MLI
Proiect Completion Report
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  ...................................................... i
Basic  Data  Sheet .............................................. ii
Highlights ....................................................  iv
I.     INTRODUCTION ......................................... 1
II.   PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY ADVANCE .................. 3
III.  IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT                                       .         .     5
A.  Exploration  Promotion .............................. 5
B. Agamor  Shales ...................................... 9
C.  Energy  Planning ................................... 10
D.  Comments  on  the  Implementation  of  the  Project ..... 11
E.  Financial  Aspects  and  Disbursements ............... 12
F. Accounting  and  Auditing ........................... 13
G.  Procurement ....................................... 13
H.  Performance  of  Consultants ........................ 14
I.  Performance  of  Borrower ........................... 14
J.  IDA's  Performance ................................. 14
IV.      CONCLUSION ........................................... 15
Mi.?          IBRD  15308R
This doc,  an. has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance



(i)
MALI
Petrolim 3xploratiock Proaotiock Proiect
Credit 1134-4LI
Project Couoletion Report
PREFACE
The project under review was the Association's twenty-third credit
extended to Mali. One of the poorest countries in the world, the Republic
of Mali is totally dependent on imports from distant sources for petroleum
products. Furthermore, the diversity of government agencies involved in
energy, and the poor coordination among them, created the need for
improvement of energy policies and ensuring the effective administration of
the sector. In order to address these issues, IDA agreed to grant a credit
of SDR 3.1 million to the Government. The Credit Agreement was signed
April 29, 1981.   The implementing agency was DNGM (Direction Nationale de
la Geologie et des Mines). The main objectives of the Credit were:
- technical assistance in monitoring the activities of oil
companies;
-  strengthening of DN(-M's m.iLaging and technical capability;
- evaluation cS the quality of the Agamor oil Shale deposit; and
- conducting of a sectoral energy analysis for defir.ing future
policies.
These objectives were met, although the results of the exploration
works implemented by the oil companies in the Taoudeni Basin leave little
hope for a commercial oil discovery in this Basin for the foreseeable
future.  The evaluation of the quality of Agamor oil Shale also gave
negative results.  Sectoral analysis resulted in a set of recommendations,
most of which are now implemented.
The criginal closing date was June 30, 1984. This was extended
twice to June 30, 1986, and the last disbursement was made on December 12,
1986. The Credit was almost fIlly disbursed; and amount of SDR 84,700
(2.7Z of Credit amount) was cancelled.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower, the Executing Agency, and one of
the consulting companies on April 4, 1989, for comments by May 19, 1989,
but none were received.



(ii)
MALI
Petroloue  Iploration Promotion Proliect
Credit 1134-4L!
Proiect Completion Report
CREDIT PKPON&AMCE BASIC DATA SESW
KEY PROJECT DATA
Original     Disbursed   Cancelled
Loan Amount
in SDR MM                      3.1        3.016         0.084
in US$ MK                      3.425      3.341         0.107
Cumulative Loan Disbursement in US$
FY   80       81       82         83        84          85         86           87
296,305 724,602 975,288 1,708,602  1,954,046  2,113,057  3.005,436  _    .-:0
PROJECT DATES
Original        Actual
First mention in the File                  07/18178
Project Brief                              06/26/80
Issues Paper                               08/13/80
Negotiations                               03/11/81
Board Approval Date                        04/21/81
Signing Date                               04/29/81
Effective Date                             10/29/81
Loan Closing Date                          06/30/84         06/30/86



(iii)
Y79 TYfO FY81 FYU2 TY83 M         J M Y56 YY 9Z 7 MI  TOTAL
Preeppraisal   6.4  3.3  2.9                                           12.5
Appraisal                 18. 9                                        189
Negotiation                3.0                                          3.0
Supervision                0.1 10.7 14.6  2.7  3.9  1.5  4.7  2.6   43.1
Other                      0.1                                          0.1
Total           6.4  3.3 k5.O 10.7 14.8  2.7  5.9  1.5  4.7  2.8   77.7
MISSION DATA
Honth/  No. of  No. of       Total    Date of
Year    Days   Persons   Hanveek   ReDort        Destination
Identification  04/79        2       1         .4       04/11/79      Bamako
Identification  04/79        3       1         .6       04/11/79      Paris
Supervision      07/79       5       2        2         07/30/79      Bamako
Supervision      09/79       5       1        1         09/21/79      Paris
Supervision      03/80       2       1         .4       04/09/80      Paris
Supervision      11/80       3       3        1.6       12/08/80      Paris
Supervision      02/81       2       1         .4       02/05/81      Bamako
Supervision      03/82       5       2        2         03/19/82      Bazako
Supervision      06/82       5       3        3         08!04/82      Bamako
Supervision      05/83       5       2        2         05/04/83      Bamako
Supervision      09/84       4       2        2.6       11/30/84      Bamako
Supervision      11/86       3       2        2.2       01/29/87      Bamako
Twelve missions totalling                    18.2
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower                    Republic of Mali
Inplementing Agency         Direction Nationale de La Geologie et des Hines



(iv)
MALI
Petroleun ExDloration Promotion Proiect
Credit 1134-MLI
Proiect CaDletion f3Dort
HIGHLIGHTS
1.       With a per capita GDP of US$160 at the beginning of the project,
Mali was among the 29 least-developed countries in the world as identified
by the United Nations. In 1980, tie Bank Group and IDA had financed 31
projects (in areas like transportation, agriculture, small scale
industries, education, urbanization) for a total Credit amount exceeding
US$200 million.
ii.      Mali is handicapped by serious obstacles to development.  Highly
irregular rains cause sharp crop and livestock fluctuations; the country's
landlocked position, with distances to the nearest seaports, Abidjan and
Dakar, exceeding 1,000 kilometers, prejudices the development of all
economic sectors.  While wood covers 762 of the energy demand, the
continual depletion of forest cover causes desertification and constrains
the supply of basic energy requirements. Although hydroelectrical
potential is much higher, installed hydrocapacity at the start of the
project was only 5.5 MW.
iii.     Imported petroleum products meet 24X of energy demand.
Consumption of petroleum products in 1979 totalled about 172,500 tons, or
27 kg per capita, which is among the lowest in Africa. However, petroleum
importation costs were equivalent to 212 of merchandise imports, and 49Z of
merchandise exports.
iv.      In 1979, the energy sector in Mali was poorly organized.  The
responsibility for energy production, transportation and distribution was
divided amorg several agencies supervised by different ministries, with
poor coordination of the whole sector.  While the Government had taken
steps to tring about closer coordination among government agencies involved
in energ-, there was need for an overall approach to devise sound policies,
and ensure effective administration of the sector.
v.       The major sedimentary basin in Mali is the Paleozoic Taoudeni
Basin, extending for 600,000 sq.km. in the country, and shared with
Mauritania. No exploration well had been drilled in the Malian part of the
Basin. Seismic surveys and an airmag coverage had demonstrated the
thickness of the Basin, and the presence of anticlines. Otherwise, the
Malian share of the Taoudeni Basin remained totally unexplored. When the



(v)
project started, the French oil company Elf-Aquitaine, was holding an
exploration concession (the Arouane permit) in the Taoudeni Basin, with
technical comitments restricted to seismic surveys.
vi.      The Government requested IDA's assistance to address the petroleum
products issues and the shortcomings of the energy administration. As a
result, the project vas identified in March 1979, presented to the Board on
April 21, 1981 and the Development Credit Agreement (Credit 1134-MLI) was
signed on April 29, 1981.
vii.     The main components of the Project weret
- preparation of a geologlcal study of Malian sedimentary basins,
and organization of petro eum exploration seminars;
-  assistance in monitoring the acivities of the oil companies, and
updating of the promotion report as new data would be acquired;
- assistance in the establishment of DNGM's Hydrocarbons Division,
in the training of the staff, and the financing of office and
laboratory equipment;
- technical evaluation of the Agamore oil shales layers, with the
support of sample collecting and laboratory testing; and
- the implementation of a study of the energy sector for defining
future policies and to review the system of supply and pricing of
petroleum products.
Promotion
viii.    By a common agreement, and in account of its long experience in
working in Wes,; African basins, the consulting firm BEICIP of France was
selected to prepare the petroleum exploration seminar. BEICIP compiled
available data and prepared a summary report of the Taoudeni Basin, which
was presented to the oil industry. Fourteen oil companies bought the
promotion report, which provided the GoveL.nment with US$105,000 revenues.
More importantly, and as a result of the promotion, ESSO took out an
exploration permit covering the central part of the Taoudeni Basin. EiSO's
contractual obligations included the drilling of a well. Furthermore,
negotiations with Elf-Aquitaine, during which DNGM was efficiently assisted
by BEICIP, led Elf-Aquitaine to agree to drill a well in the Arouane
permit, which was not included in the contractual commitment.
Monitoring of Oil Companies
ix.      All the exploration operation implemented by oil companies were
monitored as planned by DNGM with the assistance of BEICIP. In 1982,



(vi)
Elf-Aquitaine drilled the Yarba well, which vas abandoned as dry at
2,299 m. After having shot 1,500 km of seismic lines in its Taoudeni
permit in 1981-82, ESSO drilled the Atouila vell in 1985. abandoned as dry
at 2,952 m.
Technical Assistance
X.       With the technical assistance of BEICIP, DNGM established a
Hydrocarbon Division, trained its personnel, and acquired laboratories and
a Documentation Center, where all the data from earlier, as well as the
recent exploration is housed.  While the exploration activities of oil
companies has presently come to a standstill, the expertise acquired by the
DNGM staff, as well as at least part of the laboratory equipment, may le
applied to other fields, such as mining and water exploration.
Agamor Oil Shales
xi.      The evaluations of the exploration activities in the Agamor oil
shales were originally planned as a two-phase project:
the first phase would consist of an evaluation of the oil shale
hydrocarbon potential; and
depending upon the results of the first phpse study, a feasibility
study of the exploitation of the oil shale could follow.
*          xxi.     Agamor oil shale layers are located at 300 km north of Gao.  In
order to evaluate their hydrocarbon potential, five wells were cored under
the supervision of the Japanese firm SUMICON. Results were totally
negative in that only one thin layer of shale was detected.  The layer is
too thin, lies too deep, and has too low an oil content for economic
exploitation.
Energy Sector Study
xiii.    The consulting firm Transenerg of France implemented
satisfactorily the energy sector analyses. The Government found the final
report to be a valuable tool providing the principles of an energy policy.
However, the limited amount of consultants' time and the Government's
priorities prevented the work from including as much in-depth analysis of
selected topics as had been intended originally.
Conclusion
xiv.     In summary, the Mali Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project
accomplished the obiectives set initially:



(vii)
-  oil companies' exploration activities in the Taoudeni Basin were
revived, and the hydrocarbon potential of Malian basins was
appraised at no cost to the Government;
-  DNGM exploration staff were effectively trained, aud office
building and 8eological laboratories were erected. Acquired
ezpert?se and equipment may be used for mining activLtiles
-  although only negative results were obtained, the hydrocarbon
generation potential of Agamor shales was thoroughly assessed; and
-  although limited to general conclusions, the energy sector
analyses provided the Government with a valuable tool for energy
planning.
xv.      Tle exploration activites of the petroleum companies led to
negative conclusions concerning Mali's petroleum potential; among the
Malian sedimentary basins, only the Gao Graben mighe still prove of
possible interest for the time being.
Project Implementation
xvi.     Originally programmed for June 30, 1984, the closing date was
extended to June 30, 1986, and disbursements continued up to the end of
1986. These extensions were mainly due to the spreading out in time of the
exploration activities of the oil companies.



MALI
Petroleum ftPloration -romotion Project
Credit ll34-CLI
Proiect Completion Report
I. INTRODUCTION
1.       Economic conditions in Mali are governed by the extreme poverty of
the country, a harsh natural environment with large fluctuations in the
availability of basic food supplies, a landlocked position with long
distances and difficult access to foreign markets, and very difficult
macroeconomic conditions. In this context, the objectives of the World
Bank Group have been primarily to help finance investments that will
increase agricultural production, to help meet the needs of the population
in terms of health and literacy, and to help provide an adequate transport
and communication network. In addition, energy issues have been addressed
through a forest development program and a program for the production of
gasohol.
2.       Mali's energy resources are diversified but little developed.
Although potentially much higher, installed hydrocapacity was only 5.5 MW
at the time of project appraisal. Mali has no coal deposits and the
hydrocarbon potential of its four sedimentary basins remained at that time
to be assessed. Forest-based fuels are by far the most important energy
source, with firewood meeting about 69 percent of energy demand, charcoal 7
percent. Imported petroleum products covered 24 percent of the country's
energy demand in 1980. Ener,y demand in 1979 was estimated at 710,000 tons
of oil equivalent or 115 kg per capita. Petroleum imports amounted to
US$54 million, equivalent to 492 of merchandise exports in that year.
Although energy demand was low, petroleum products imports imposed a heavy
burden on the balance of payments. The Government was therefore keen to
identify and develop any domestic petroleum resources. ln that respect,
they wished to have appraised the hydrocarbon potential of Malian
sedimentary basins.
3.       Mali has four main sedimentary basins.  (See the map of Mali,
Attachment I). The major one is the Paleozoic Taoudeni Basin extending for
600,000 km2 in Mali and shared with Mauritania. The others are the Gao
Graben (10,000 sq.km.) the Nara Basin (40,000 sq.km.) and the Malian
portion of the Iullemeden Basin (50,000 sq.km.). All these basins were
poorly explored in 1979. Hydrocarbon exploration in the country had
started in the early 60's and comprised mainly geophysical work. When the
project started, Elf Aquitaine (France), was the only company holding
permits in Mali, and had drilled one dry well in the Gao Graben.
4.       The sedimentary areas that might contain hydrocarbons extended
over an area of about 700,000 sq.km. Prior to 1979, the main exploration
work performed had been as follows:
- In the T:nudeni Basin: Early in the 196ns, several ,ield geology
studies of a pre-reconnaissance nature were made in Mauritania and



de Recherche de Pdtrole). Between 1970 and 1974, Texaco, in
association with Esso, undertook the seismic and airmag coverage
of the basin (Mali/Mauritania). Two wells were drllled in
Mauritania (none in Mali) by Texaco and Agip CAbolag 1 and Ouasa
1), without positive results.
-  In the Iullemeden/Tamesna Basin.  SOMARUM, the national mining
company, with Soviet technical assistance, drilled two exploration
wvlls (Tahabanat and Tin Tamat) vithout results. Sun Oil shot
some hundreds of km of seismic lines in the northern zone but did
not do any drilling.
- In the Gao Graben: Murphy shot 800 km of seismic lines and, after
it entered into association with SNEA, tlhe latter company drilled
Ansongo 1 without positive results.
5.       In 1979, only SNEA held exploration rights in the form of two
exploration permits in the South-Central and East-Central parts of the
Taoudeni Basin: (i) the Araouane permit: 96,053 sq.km. in the Taoudeni
Basin, first period of validity was ' years, minimum commitment: about
US$0.9 million; (ii) the Macina permit: 87,820 sq.km., first period of
validity was 5 years, minimum commitment: US$4.5 million equivalent, in 2
phases of US$1.8 million or 2.7 each; no explorat. in drilling was included
in work commitments for these two permits.
6.       Mali's hydrocarbon legislation (of 1969) provides for three types
of perm4ts.  The non-exclusive prospecting license allows preliminary work
(exclusive of drilling) on an unlimited area for a period of six months to
a maximum period of four years (including renewal). The exclusive
exploration permit allows drilling, and is valid for five years with two
three-year renewals, and a 50? area reduction on first renewal and a 25Z
reduction of remaining surface on second renewal. The working commitment
usually provides for one well, however, the financial commitments are
negotiated in each case. In the case of Elf Aquitaine, mentioned above,
the financial commitments could only meet the cost of seismic surveys. The
exploitation permit, after a commercial discovery, is valid for 25 years
with two 10-year extensions, royalties of 12.5?, and taxes of 502 of
profits. Since 1973, a limited state equity participation has been
introduced in new petroleum exploration contracts.
7.       At the request of the Government, an IDA mission visited Bamako in
November 1978 to identify the needs of Mali concerning petroleum
exploration promotion. The conclusion of this mission, as conveyed to the
Government, was that these needs were: assessment of hydrocarbon potential
in Malian basins, particularly in the Taoudeni Basin; formulation of a
long-term exploration strategy; assessment of the technical assistance and
training required; a review of the existing petroleum legislation and
recomendations for improvements. IDA proposed to carry out the
corresponding tasks under PPF financing. Furthermore, IDA indicated that a
regional study of the Taoudeni Basin, which extends largely to Mauritania,



a summary report on the Taoudeni Basin based on all the data gathered from
previous exploration efforts (seismic and well data, gravimetry and geology
res4ltg, etc.). The field survey, which could not b' prepared before the
summer, hatd to be delayed until the following cool season. This report
covered both the Mauritanian and the Malian parts of the basin. It was
presented to both Governments and to IDA in April 1980. Conclusions
emphasized two objectives which had previously been gliven insufficient
attentions first a Saharan-type Paleozoic objective in the northern part
of the basin and second an Infracambrian objective in the southern part of
the basin.
11.      In accordance with their contractual commitments, BEICIP also
reviewed the petroleum legislation, as summarised in paragraph 23 above.
They concluded that the law was flexible enough to accommodate the oil
companies' needs, and thus would not deter any company interested it, Mali
from entering into negotiations. No further work in this area was
therefore done under the PPP advance or the subsequent project.
12.      Meanwhile, the Drocessing of the proposed project &s outlined in
paragraph 24 progressed.  It soon appeared that substantial delays could be
experienced in project processing due to the lengthy negotiations with oil
companies interested in co-financing the exploration program. In order to
continue the preparation process, the GoveLnment therefore requested a
c.omplementary PPF advance. This would finance consultants for additional
project preparation, including the following:
(a) The field survey, which had had to be deleted from the first PPF
advance, due to organizational difficulties;
(b) Assistance in the promotion of the Taoudeni Basin to oil
companies, and in the negotiations with oil companies interested
in participating in the proposed project; and
(c) A Landsat survey.
13.      The total amount of this complementary financing was estimated at
US$570,000, of which US$70,000 could be financed with the balance available
from the first PPF advance, and US$500,000 through a second PPF advance,
which was granted in December 5, 1980. The Government and BEICIP proceeded
to promote the Taoudeni Basin to the oil industry by directly contacting
oil companies.  Letters were sent inviting representatives of some 40
companies to visit BEICIP in Paris and discuss the geology of the basin as
well as possible contractual arrangements. This promotion effort was
successful. Fourteen companies bought BEICIP's reports, at a price of
US$15,000 each.  The proceeds were shared 50/50 by the Governments of Mali
and Mauritania. DNGM thus received a revenue of US$105,000. More
importantly, in January 1981 Esso took an exploration permit concerning
143,000 sq.km. in the central part of the Taoudeni Basin. The minimum
financial commitment required was US$6 million, the first period was five
years and Esso undertook to drill at least one exploration well in the



should be implemented in cooperation with the Government of this country.
An IDA follow-up mission that visited MHai in early 1979 discussed those
conclusions with the Government. As a result, following the Finance
Minister's formal request of a PPF advance, which was later granted, the
the Government decided, in consultation with the mission, to directly
award the technical assistance contract to the French consulting company
BEICIP, in view of this company's experience in the geology of Africa, and
its previous involvement in the petroleum sector of the country. The
mission also met the Minister of Industry of Mauritania, who expressed a
very high interest in a joint study of the Taoudeni Basin with the Mali
Government.
8.       During successive meetings, held from September 1979 to January
1980, between the representatives of the Governments of Mali and
Mauritania, BEICIP, and IDA, the BEICIP work program for the joint study cf
the whole Taoudeni Basin was discussed. Mauritania's Government agreed to
finance its share of the study. The work program included: (a) a review
and integration of the existing geological and geophysical data and; (b) a
field survey to be carried out for stratigraphic and technical purposes in
the northern part of the basin. The cost of this work was evaluated at
US$420,000. Furthermore, as requested by the Government, BEICIP outlined
the program of the contemplated IDA petroleum project. It was aimed at
implementing Mail's share of the study, by preparing a full-potential
evaluation of the country's portion of the Taoudeni basin. It included:
US$ Million
Field Survey                     0.5
Geochemical Analysis             1.0
Seismic Surveys                 12.0
Drilling of Three
Stratigraphic Wells          30.0
Total                      43.5
9.       IDA agreed in principle to finance the total amount of field
surveys and geochemical analysis, and approximately 1OZ of seismic surveys
and well drilling, on the condition that the oil industry would firance the
balance. The scope of this program was modified subsequently by the
results of the work performed under the PPF.
II.  THE PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY ADVANCE
10.      The BEICIP assistance was started as soon as the PPF financing
(US$500,000) became available (July 1979) with the assignment to DNGM,
Bamako, of a senior geological engineer.  This engineer was made
responsible for establishment of the Hydrocarbons Division, the monitoring
of SNEA's activities in its two exploration permit areas, and the training
of DNGM's local staff. BEICIP also prepared a Three-Year Plan designed to
facilitate development of DNGM, the monitoring of the operator's work,
training and the setting up of laboratories in Bamako, and it also prepared



Paleozoic for each contract perijd. BEICIP assisted DNGM in the
negotiations with Esso. The Government retained the option to participate
in the event of a cosmiercial discovery, with a state equity participation
of 152. In case it exercised this option, the Government would reimburse
its share of past expenses, and finance its share of future development and
exploitation expenses.
14.      The French oil company Elf Aquitaine (SNEA) held, under a seismic
option contract, the Arouane permit. Upon negotiations between DNGM (with
BEItCIP's assistance) and SNEA, the latter agreed to drill an exploration
well within this permit, with an Infracambrian objective, with the initial
condition that the Government finance 402 of the cost of the well.
However, upon a proposal from Esso, SNEA signed with this company a cross-
participation agreement, with each company financing, against an acquired
interest, 502 of the other company's'well, and with no need for any
Government financing.
15.      The promotion work had thus produced very positive results with
the resumption of exploration in the z'aoudeni Basin, and with commitments
by major oil comparLies to drill two exploration wells. This was a major
achievement in view of the State's disadvantageous location and uncertain
petroleum prospects, and was achieved without the State bearing any
exploration costs.
16.      Credit Preparation.  As a result cf the success of the PPF phase,
the subsequent credit itself was scaled down substantially and came to
include the following:
Category                           Anount Allocated in SDRs
Consultant's Services                         1,400,000
Equlpment                                       300,000
Training                                        200,000
Refunding of the PPF Advance                    825,000
Unal.located                                    375,000
Total                                      3,100,000
17.      The Development Credit Jgreement for Credit 1134-MLI was signed on
April 29, 1981, and became effective on October 29, 1981. The
implementaticn of the project is discussed below.
III. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
A. Exploration Promotion
18.      Owing to the exploration program planned by the two companies Esso
and Elf Aquitaine, it was decided that any further large-scale exploration
promotion would have to await the results of these drilling programs. The



project scope in this respect was therefore reduced to consulting
assistance to monitor the activities of liso and Y12, trainLng of DYCK
staff in cooperation with these companies, assista:ice in strengthening the
hydrocarbon section and tho procurement of necessary office and laboratory
equipment.
19.      Exploratory work monitored by DNGM, vith the assistance of UZICIP,
corresponded to the following program.
-  In 1982, SNCA drilled the Yarba well (abandoned as dry at 2,294 m
in the Infracambrian stromatolitic limestones).
-  In 1981-82, Esso shot 1,500 km of seismic lines in its Taoudeni
permit area. These new lines were interpreted by DNGM/BIICIP in
1983.
- In 1984, during preparation for the Atouila well (Esso pormit,
Taoudeni), DNGM and BEICIP reassessed the data on which the
decision to drill in that location was based.
-  In 1984-85, the Esso Atouila well was drilled, and abandoned as
dry at 2,952 m.
20.      The approximate cost of the exploration activities of the oil
companies are as follows:
SNEA          Yarba Well             US$15 million
Other Work            US$ 3 million
TOTAL SNEA                           US$18 million
ESSO          Atouila Well           US$ 8 million
Seismic Survey        US$ 6 million
Other Work            USS 3 million
TOTAL ESSO                           US$17 million
The overall expenditures of the oil corpanies exploring in Mali
were US$35 million as compared with a project ccet of US$3.34 million, and
w:.th the forecast cost of the initial objectives of the project: US$41
million.
21.      All the exploration operations were thus monitored as planned by
DNGM with the assistance of BEICIP. The two operating companies had worked
on a cross-participation basis in the permit areas: the Araouane zone,
where SNEA was the operator, was split 502 SNEA and 501 Esso, while the
Taoudeni area was held 56Z Esso, 14Z SNEA and 302 Shell at the time the
Atouila well was drilled. All the work done by the operators was performed
in accordance with international industrial standards, the collaboration
between the operators on the one hand and DNGM/BEICIP on the other being
unfailingly scrupulous and efficient.



22.      In 1985. after the negative results from the Atouila well, DNGM
and BEICIP assembled all the data from the well (cuttings, cores, logs,
CVL, etc.) which were reinterpreted (sedimentology, reservoirs,
stratigraphy, geochemistry) and integrated into a regional re-evaluation of
the Taoudeni permit area with comparisons with the other neighboring basins
(Mauritania/Algeria). This report showed the substantive absence of
petroleum possibilities in the zone explored. The main reason for this
unsuccessful exploration is to be found in the overmaturity of source rocks
throughout the Paleozoic section, which prevented any generation and
expulsion of hydrocarbons. This yet unexplained phenomenon could not have
been foreseen before drilling. In 1986, BEICIP also made a reassessment of
the Gao Graben, which has not been condemned by actual drilling.  However,
the available data did not make it possible to reach sufficiently positive
conclusions to undertake any significant promotion at the present time, but
the report will be available for DNGM when the international petroleum
investment climate significantly improves. Finally, in June 1986, upon
IDA's suggestion, a general report on petroleum prospects in Mali was
produced, presenting the main points and conclusions of all the reports
produced between 1979 and 1986.
23.      Training was carried out by BEICIP, and complemented with on the
job training with oil companies' seismic and drilling operations. The
following actions were undertaken and carried out by BEICIP in the course
of the work:
(i) A senior BEICIP engineer was assigned to DNGM, Bamako, up to July
1983. He contributed directly to the local training of Malian
staff and organized the Hydrocarbons Divisior. (organization chart,
job descriptions, etc.);
(ii) Subsequently, assistance was provided through frequent visits,
including for the establishment of the Laboratories;
(iii) As regards training, the objectives were exceeded by a
considerable margin. Actual training costs, including travel,
living allowances, and time spent by BEICIP staff on the training
program, account for one-fourth of total BEICIP invoices, i.e.
approximately US$550,000. Detailed training operations are
attached as Annex II. DNGM received training in all areas of
petroleum exploration activities. Results were good, due to both
the quality of BEICIP's training and the eagerness to learn of
DNGM staff.
24.      As a result, DNGM now has a group of engineers and technicians
comprising: seven geologists, three geophysicists, three
drillers/production men, and four chemical engineers.
25.      All documents deriving from exploration work performed prior to
the project, together with all data from the work done either during the
preparatory phase or in the course of the project are now filed with DNGM
in Bamako. These documents relate to field work, seismic exploration and



the wv il drilled (logo, diagrams, samples, etc.). The DNCM Petroleum
Documentation Center is therefore completel all the evaluation and summary
reports together with their rocomendations are also filed in it. In
addition, a petroleum library has been set up.
26.      Two laboratories were set up in bamako in the course of the
project. Preliminarily, between 1952 and 1956, DNGM acquired suitable
buildings outside Bamako. Once the buildings were ready, BIICIP started
procuring the equipment. These laboratories are now operational and
properly staffed. The sedimentary geology laboratory has all the equipment
nesded for the study of rock samples (cores, cuttings, terrain); this
equipment can be used in other areas such as mining and is thus not limited
to petroleum exploration alone. The small hydrocarbons analysis
laboratory, which is located on the same premises, checks the quality of
petroleum products imported into Mali for domestic use.
27.      The equipment was purchased under the project in accordance with
World Bank procedures, with procurement based on international shopping.
It was delivered in 1986; BEICIP proceeded to establish the laboratories
and start them up after aaving trained (1985-86) the technical personnel
who were to run them. These laboratories, especially the sedimentary
geology laboratory, will also be used by DNGM in i'e UNDP mining projects
underway in Mali. The Government financed the purchase and rehabilitation
of the buildings. In addition, IDA financed the purchase of drilling
equipment for mining exploration purposes, from Craelius of France. (See
paragraph 56, page 28.)
Comments About the Execution of the Exploration Component of the Project
28.      In the course of the project, the two prospects (Infracambrian and
Paleozoic) of the basin were drilled. Although negative results were
obtained, the hydrocarbon potential of the Taoudeni Basin was properly
evaluated. The attractiveness of the Taoudeni Basin for the oil industry
is now very relative and it is unlikely that any companies will take up
permits in it again in the near future.
29.      On the other hand, the project contributed directly to the
development of DNGM and to eqvipping the Directorate to handle hydrocarbon
questions:
- DNGM now has a good knowledge of Mali's sedimentary basins; it has
all the records pertaining to the companies' earlier and recent
work.
- Throughout the preparatory phase and the project proper, DNGM's
staff were included in the exploration work done by the operat'rs
and in the preparation of the reports and evaluations produced by
BEICIP.
-  DNGM has all the evaluation and summary reports.



- DNGM personnel have followed numerous training courses in all
hydrocarbon-related fields.
- DNGM now possesses fully equipped, modern laboratories.
DNGH has a technical library containing all the basic reference
works and scientific journals.
B. Aamor Shales
30.      In 1962, drilling by SONAREK, with Soviet assistance, indicated
the existence of an oil shale layer about 350 km to the north of Gao.
Reserves were estimated at 10 billion tons. This shale layer has not been
studied since. However, in order to attempt to use them as a source of
energy, the Government of Mali requested that a preliminary appraisal of
these oil shales be included as a supplementary component of the project
under review. IDA agreed to the inclusion of such an apprs.sal in the
credit.
31.      The initial program for the evaluation of the potential of Agamor
oil shales included:
(i) Drilling of sixteen shallow (40 to 50 m) wells;
(ii) Based on acquired data, an assessment of the economics of an oil
shales operation, and
(iii) The definition of the cptimum mining method.
32.      The cali for bids was sent to five contractors.  The proposal
presented by the SNC Group of Canada was accepted by the Government, and
IDA did not present any objection to the selection of this company, which
would lead the work, subcontracting only the drilling operations. At this
stage, IDA mining staff became involved in the project. As a result of a
1982 mission, the work program was subsequently revised downward. The
Government agreed to this new strategy, which was formulated as follows:
(i) Implementation of a limited drilling campaign (maximum five drill
holes) in order to verify the results shown in the previous
Russian report and to check whether the characteristics of the
deposit might improve outside of the area previously drilled; and
(ii) Unless the results of this work would prove to be substantially
more favorable than those shown in the Soviet reports, no further
work on Agamor shales would be contemplated.
33.      The contract between the Government and SNC gave the company total
responsibility for execution. A schedule for on-site and laboratory



- 10 -
operations vas drawn-up. The launching of the drilling operations vas
delayed due to the withdrawal of the French company Felgas ot Mlason, which
had been initially selected for the drilling. SNC then signed a contract
with the Japanese company SUHICON, which was already operating in the
region. This company promptly drilled the five wells and the subsequent
laboratory tests vere completed on schedule.
34.      The objectives of this component were achieved in that five wells
were drilled and oil shale cores were obtained. The coreg-were technically
tested in laboratories selected by SNC. Those tests answered the questions
concernming the extent and quality of the deposits; unfortunately, the
answers were negative. The thickness of the oil shale layer does not
exceed one meter and the depth ranges from 20 to 30 meters. Oil content is
approxiLlately 1OZ. Based on these data, SNC's report concludes that
economic development is not feasible in current economic conditions. IDA
and the Government agreed with this conclusion.
35.      Implementation necessitated tha purchase of the following items of
equipment: Toyota land cruisers, two radio transceivers, and various items
of company equipment. In accordance with the contract, SNL transferred
ownership of all the above items to DNGM once the on-site operations had
been concluded,
C. Energy Planning
36.      Responsibility for the administration of the petroleum products
sector was, in 1979, distributed between different ministries. Within the
Ministry of Industrial Development, the National Directorate of Energy and
Mines (DNGM) was in charge of fossil fuels, the Directorate of Hydraulics
and Energie (LHE) was responsible for energy planning. The Ministry of
Finance and Commerce administered fuel pricing, while decisions in energy
pricing were taken by the Council of Ministers. These different agencies
exchanged little information, and their activities were not coordinated.
The Government requested IDA's assistance in order to decide upon an
overall energy policy. A study, aimed at appraising different options and
requirements for the Government in terms of energy development was thus
introduced as a specific component of the project, with the following terms
of reference:
(i) Energy supply and demand were to be projected over the next ten
years;
(ii) An investment program for the energy sector was to be proposed,
with recommendations for the priorities to be observed;
(iii) The parameters of a price policy were to be prepared;
(iv) Institutional and administrative aspects of the sector were to be
studied.



- 11 -
37.      The study was to be divided in two phases.  The initial analysis
implemented under Phase I would help in determining the most important
issues that could then be studied in more depth in the second phase.
38.      As a result of its evaluation of the four proposals received, the
Government proposed to select two associated French and Malian firms. In
view of the inexperience of both firms in a similar assignment, IDA
objected to such a selection, and the Government subsequently proceeded
with the second selected firm, Transenerg of France. These discussions
resulted in some delays, and the rompletion of the studies was rescheduled
for 1983, as compared with the initial forecast of June 1982. In the
meantime, the responsibility for the implementation of this component was
transferred from DNGM to the National Directorate of Hydraulics and Energy
(DNHE).
39.      Transenerg prepared an initial draft of the assessment of the main
problems affecting the energy sector.  The Government and the Bank reviewed
this draft in Fehruary 1983 and found that many improvements were needed
including a mnore detailed evaluation study of energy prices, more realistic
energy consumption projections, and more realistic proposals to address the
energy issues. Subsequently, Transenerg presented an acceptable report for
Phase I. The conclusions of this report led to the preparation of the
program for Phase II. This program included (i) a detailed review of the
four sectoral aspects, fuelwood and charcoal, hydrocarbons, electric power
and renewable energy; (ii) an analysis of price structure, and (iii)
recommendations on possible investment programs. The limited amount of
consultants' time allotted and the Government's priorities prevented this
work from arriving at as in-depth analyses of selected topics as had
origi_ally been intended. However, the final report for Phase II was
consicered by the Government as a valuable reference tool for the whole of
the energy sector. The study provides the groundwork necessary for
establishing the principles of the energy policy setting objectives (such
as preparation of a hydroelectric distribution system) and strategy for
each energy-related activity (such as diversification of sources of oil
products) and ensuring overall consistency.
D. Comments on the Implementation of the Project
40.      The implementation of the exploration component of the project had
to be adjusted and extended by three years Lo match operators activities.
The other components, Agamor oil shale appraisal and energy planning, were
implemented within the same time framework.  This extension of the time
table of the main component of the project caused extra work and cost
overruns. On the other hand, the cost of Agamor oil shale appraisal was
significantly lower than expected, due to the reduction from 16 to 5 of the
number of wells drilled.
41.      The Government requested permission to use part of the remaining
funds under the project to purchase drilling equipment for mining purposes,
in connection with the implementatior of a UNDP mining project. On an



- 12 -
exceptional basis, IDA agreed to this request. Thus DNGM purchased the
drilling equipment from the company Craelius (S.A.) of France.
E. Financial Aspects and Disburements
42.      During the period when IDA contemplated participating in financing
the appraisal of the hydrocarbon potential of the Taoudeni Basir, the OPEC
Fund of Vienna, and the European Investment Bank of Luxembourg had both
agreed to co-finance the project (1980).  When it becam  clear that the
drilling program proposed for the project would be financed by oil
companies, the project was thus reduced to a technical assistance program
for which there was no co-financing need. No problem existed thus
regarding availability of funds.
43.      A total of US$1.0 million had been granted to finance the project
preparation facility advances, but only US$788,324 were actually disbursed.
The amount allocated under the project was disbursed to a level of 97.25Z.
The remaining amount (US$107,000) was cancelled.
44.      According to the Credit Agreement, the Government of Mali was to
finance 35Z of local costs. The corresponding amount was used to finance
the premises for the laboratcry (FF 1.600.000) the corresponding furniture
(FF 81,321.24) and the operational budget of DNGM (FF 3,000,000). Total
government financing amounts to FF 4,681,321. or less than US$1,000,000.
Only 60I of the credit amount had been di-bursed by the initial date of
completion of the Credit Agreement, i.e. December 31, 1983. The main part
of the remaining funds, which were used to finance procurement of
laboratories, was disbursed during the last year of the Credit Agreement,
i.e. 1986.
45.      The following table indicates (in SDRs) the disbursements by
category, as compared with the corresponding amounts allocated in the
Credit Agreement.
Initial          Disbursement
Amount              Amount
Category                                   (SDR)               (SDR)
1.  Consultants Service                1,400,000              1,873,200
2.  Equipment                            300,000                447,231
3.  Training                             200,000                   0
4.  Refunding of Advance for
Project Preparation                825,000               694,869
5.  Unallocated                          375,000                   0
6.  Cancelled                                                    84,700
Total SDR                        3,100,000             3,100,000
46.      It should be noted that, in this table, training costs are
included in Category 1, under BEICIP contract.  Actual cost of training may
be evaluated at approximately SDR 550,000. It is also recalled that the



- 13 -
increase of cost under Category 2, equipment, corresponds to the financing
of the drilling equipment from Craelius. A breakdown of disbursements, in
US dollars by company and calendar year, is given as an attachment to the
report. (Attachment III).
P. Accounting and Auditing
47.      In accordance with the Credit Agreement, the accounting firm
Diarra of Mali audited the project accounts statements, which they found
fully acceptable. This work was done on schedule. The auditors made
several recommendations concerning DNGW's accounting system, which have
been taken into account.
G. Procurement
(a' Assi3tance to Exploration Activities
48.      The Government proposed to award directly the contract to BEICIP
of France on the following grounds: (i) BEICIP had ten-years' experience
of working in African basins; and (ii) it had already set up a Training
Center for exploration engineers and technicians in Bamako. IDA agreed to
the selection. BEICIP was the only consulting company involved in the
implementation of this component of the project, including overall
exploration assistance to DNGM, training of their staff, and procuring the
laboratory equipment. BEICIP invoices totaled US$2,280,201.
(bf Appraisal of Agamor Oil Shales
49.      Five proposals were received in response to a call for bids issued
by the Government of Mali. The Canadian company SNC, Ltd. (Surveyor,
Nenniger and Chevevert) was contracted, with IDA's approval, to provide the
corresponding services. The contract, signed in September 1982 between the
Government Mali and SNC, gave the company total responsibility for
execution, including subcontracting part of the work to another company.
Thus it was through subcontracting by SNC that the Japanese company SUMICON
was awarded the drilling contract. Total cost involved was US$285,396.
(c) Energy Planning
50.      Bids were invited from five companies to implement this component
of the project. The Transenerg Company of France was selected for
presenting the best technical qualification for the next to lowest price.
Transenerg was the only company involved in the implementation of the
energy planning part of the project. Total Transenerg invoices amounted to
US$239,000.
(d) Equipment
51.      Laboratory equipment was purchased, with BEICIP assistance,
following a limited call for bids and in accordance with IDA's procedures.



- 14 -
52.      Drilling equipm nt for mining was purchased from the Creelius
Company of France, upon quotations obtained from three manufacturers.
H. Performance of Consultants
(a) BicitD
53.      This consulting firm performed excellent vork.  During the
implementation of the program set forth in the project, they maintained
excellent cooperation with DNGM, IDA, and the oil companies. With BZICIP's
technical cooperation, both Esso and Elf Aquitaine drilled key vells in the
Taoudeni Basin, thus achieving a proper, if negative, appraisal of the
hydrocarbon potential of the basin.
(b) SNC
54.      This company did good work in appraising the hydrocarbon potential
of the Agamor oil shales, and remained well within the time table and the
budget allocated. The results met the objectives of the corresponding
component of the project.
(c) TransenerA
55.      Even though implementation of the task entrusted to this company
may have been hampered by lack of Government cooperation and of reliable
statistics in fuelwood resources and their consumption, the initial
performance of Transenerg consultants was not satisfactory (lack, in the
initial provisional report, of in-depth analyses of various energy sub-
sectors, absence of clear definition of priority in the energy policy, and
no convincing projection in the petroleum products needs). IDA and the
Government had to closely supervise and monitor their study, in order to
obtain eventually an acceptable final report.
I. Performance of the Borrower
56.      The Government implemented their share of the work program in
accordance with the guidelines and covenants set forth in the Credit
Agreement. They provided proper local support to the consulting firms
involved in the implementation of the different components of the project.
The Malian staff demonstrated good will, and often enthusiasm, in the
implementation of their exploration task.
57.      However, some delaya were experienced in tie building of the
premises for the laboratories, which made two successive extensions of the
credit necessary, and explains why the bulk of the laboratory equipment was
bought during the last year of the project.
J. IDA's Performance
58.      IDA played a very efficient role in the implementation of the work
program provided for in the different componenits of the project:



- 15 -
(i) The Bank's experts defined a minimum efficient program for
appraisal of the Agamer oil shale, which led to the evaluation
being made with a minimum cost for the Government.
(ii) IDA assisted the Government in the close monitoring of Transenerg
energy studies.
IV. CONCLUSION
59.      The Project under review achieved all its objectives during both
the project preparation facility phase and the five-year project period.
60.      Although the results of the wells drilled by oil companies were
disappointing, the hydrocarbon prospects of the Taoudeni Basin have been
evaluated, with a marginal cost of the Governmert.
61.      With the assistance of BEICIP, DNGM established a Hydrocarbons
Service, trained its personnel, and acquired laboratories and a
Documentation Center, in which all data resulting from previous and recent
exploration are filed. This strengthening of the Hydrocarbons Service may
be directed towards other activitie 'han petroleum exploration, such as
mining or water exploration.
62.      A technical evaluation of the potential of the Agamor shales
resulted in negative conclusions.
63.      Although the limited amount of time devoted to the energy planning
study prevented any in-depth study of the various activities regarding
energy in the country, conclusions of the study provided a reliable tool to
the Government for selecting between the different options and preparation
of selected policy measures.
64.      The Project met all its initial objectives.  It is considered that
this success is accountable to (i) the excellent quality of the work
performed by most of the consultants; and (ii) the constant support given
by the Borrower to the implementation of the Project.
65.      The only region in Mali at the present stage of knowledge of the
sedimentary basins where exploration might be successful is the Gao Graben.
Exploration in this graben is at a very preliminary stage. As a conclusion
to its participation in this report, DNGM outlined a work program to
appraise the hdyrocArhon potential of the Gao Graben, and expressed the
desire that IDA provide Mali with financial assistance to carry it out.



I f } 't             >          )          X             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T INOOUF BA' IN                --            Bo BernousWETARC 
WEST AFRICA    )
IgAl-g-'>  t1                                                            1  \    ;7.>   :   LAD                                                                                THE TAOUDENI BASIN
0  -    g   $C t?$cor  - -:                      1;                           :          :  :t  td......                                                                  Concessions;
TIN 00 U F  BA S I N......                                                                                                      TEXACO
...    ................                                            ~~~~~~~BASIN>                                  SE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,   XIG
<>NouashiDo  I)-giS  40uasaJ2  IAOUDENT-  ( I                                               r '-  :rIlUobIe structures
...........                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Geology'
Cont,nental InterIoloire
Devoriran
Dagouber                                                      Ordovician
Ne0h.lD%   4ouoa                                                                                                    TAU  E"N                                                                             upper Irnfrocamnbrionr
Af                                                                                                                                                                         < <$ *UK E R t 4 -Middle IfrtQC0-nrbror,
|guett,                                                                                                                                                     L /e' j  .   'fONcGrrbrio,
i r . \ S V ria 2_X L / _D oossc =_ B E N { ------
NA                                                    *Aorg1 Bf                                                                    \     {     j    /                        ~      2      '2C0
0Noooschort                                    EIRESIO
-~~  ~edomo                                                                                         -s,-                           -   nro'norona; bo~~~~~~iN  ESr,ee
IrA~~~~~~~,A                                  -           Tom~~~~~~~~~ABA  yrl! r.if;-
alato                                                   0          ~           ~~~~~~~~ <.iong   
SENEGAL                                                    Nir/
BASIN
THEGia~~~~~~A~~y -  ~      ~       ~       9Niamey
G u Irq6A/                                                                                                                                      BURKINA FASO
0 IS SAo0 rWUs
16.                 iKlfii
MAY I9.



