Documentof                    FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3004-MLI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
'liO THE
FXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
April 1, 1981
y _ _ _
This document bas s restricted tistribution ud may be usetl by recipients only in the perfonn nce of
their ofEchl dwties Its eontents by not otherwisc be disclosed wvithat World Ihnk suthorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =   Malian Franc (MF)
MF 1 Million      =   US$2,273
US$1              =   MF 440
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BEICIP    =    Bureau d'Etudes Industrielles et de Cooperation
DHE       =    Directorate of Hydraulics and Energy
DNGM      =    National Directorate of Geology and Mines
HD        =    Hydrocarbon Division
MID       =    Ministry of Industrial Development
PPF       =    Project Preparation Facility
SNEA      =    Societe Nationale Elf Aquitaine



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALI
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             The Republic of Mali
Amount:                SDR 3.1 million (US$3.7 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard
Project Description:  The project would finance technical assistance to
help the Government evaluate the hydrocarbon potential
of the Taoudeni Basin and to strengthen institutional
capabilities for energy planning. Technical assistance
would be provided for three tasks:
(a) Exploration. Under a PPF, the Basin was promoted
to foreign oil companies and contracts were successfully
negotiated for two oil wells. Activities of the compa-
nies would be monitored for integrating the data col-
lected into the Government's data base. An accounting
system would be set up designed to monitor, control
and audit expenditures by the companies.
(b) Research. Technical evaluation of the quality of
the Agamor oil shale deposits would be conducted by
sample collection and laboratory testing. If warranted,
an estimate of the size of the reserves would be
carried out.
(c) Energy Studies. Energy studies would be conducted
to provide sectoral analysis for defining future policies,
to review the system of supply and pricing of petroleum
products and to assess institutional training and
technical assistance needs for strengthening planning
capabilities.
Terms of reference for consultant services include
on-the-job training of local counterpart staff and in
addition, eight fellowships would be provided for
training abroad.
Project Risks:        No particular risks are associated with the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:        The total cost of the project net of duties and taxes
is estimated at US$4 million equivalent of which US$3.7
million (about 92 percent) would be foreign exchange.
A summary cost table is shown below:
Foreign    Local      Total
(US$ 000)    …
Consultant Services a/   2,450          240     2,690
Equipment                    410         -         410
Training                     200         -         200
Subtotal             3,060        240      3,300
Physical Contingencies        220        20        240
Price Contingencies           420        40        460
Subtotal                640        60        700
TOTAL                       3,700       300     4,000
Financing Plan:                                                           Percent
IDA                        3,700          -     3,700      92
Government                     -        300        300      8
TOTAL                      3,700        300     4,000    100
Estimated
Disbursements:  Fiscal Year                  1981       1982       1983    1984
Annual                  1,100 a/  1,000      1,000      600
Cumulative             1,100      2,100      3,100   3,700
a/ Includes US$1,000,000 PPF advance.
Rate of Return: N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report: N.A.
Map: IBRD 15308



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR A PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit for the equivalent of SDR 3.1 million (US$3.7 million) on standard IDA
terms to the Republic of Mali to help finance a proposed Petroleum Exploration
Promotion Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled  Economic Memorandum on Mali" (1134a-MLI) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on January 5, 1978.  The following
paragraphs are based on that report and the findings of economic missions
during 1980, the results of which will be distributed later this year.
Country data are contained in Annex I.
3.        With a population of about 6.3 million and a per capita GDP of
US$159 in 1979 Mali is one of the poorest countries of Africa and among the
29 least developed countries identified by the United Nations. It is handi-
capped by serious obstacles to development. The extreme variability of rain-
fall causes sharp fluctuations in crop and livestock production, and access to
foreign markets is made difficult by its landlocked position and the long
distances--more than 1000 km--to the nearest seaports, Abidjan and Dakar.
Development is also constrained by the substantial internal distances (the
country covers an area of 1.24 million km2), the shortage of skilled man-
power and the narrow domestic market for industrial products. About 90
percent of the population depends for a livelihood on crop farming, animal
husbandry, forestry and fishing. Exports consist almost entirely of agricul-
tural commodities and livestock.
4.    -   Over the twenty years following independence, economic growth has
outpaced growth of population. Between 1960-1978, per capita GDP in real
terms increased at an average annual rate of 1.5 percent, even though the
impact of droughts caused declines in real income in 1969, 1973-74 and 1978.
As with many other poor countries, however, the decade of the seventies brought
severe inflationary pressures, which with the understandable desire of the Gov-
ernment to protect internal consumption standards, resulted in a marked deter-
ioration of many of the country's economic institutions--particularly its para-
statals--and its public finances. The Government has taken action since 1977
to redress major financial imbalances through credit restraint, through some
reductions of the subsidy element in the prices of essential consumer goods,
fertilizers and agricultural equipment through improved tax collection, and
through efforts to slow the growth of public expenditures--for example, by
limiting scholarships and the use of public vehicles. The trend since 1977
has been one of increasing awareness on the part of the Government of the sever-
ity of the problem and of progressively stronger efforts to grapple with it.
1/   Substantially unchanged from the Road Maintenance Project President's
Report (No. P-2954-MLI) dated February 11, 1981.



-2-
The Drought Years: 1972-1974
5.        All economic sectors were affected in varying degrees by the drought
of 1972-1974; recovery in these sectors has followed different patterns. The
loss of human life resulting from the drought is not fully known, but it was
particularly severe among nomadic groups and especially the young and elderly.
The cattle herd, estimated at 5.5 million head in 1971, was reduced to 3.5 mil-
lion head by 1974; the herd is still 20 percent below its peak size.
6.        In an effort to assure access by consumers to essential commodities,
the Government resorted to large imports of cereals when domestic output fell
and to consumer subsidies in the face of rising costs of imported and locally
manufactured goods. To finance losses incurred by state enterprises in charge
of imports and sales of subsidized goods, growing amounts of bank credit were
used, ultimately adding to external indebtedness. Efforts to suppress domestic
price rises, particularly of foodstuffs, probably depressed agricultural
production and exacerbated the need for further cereal imports. Thus, these
years not only imposed great human suffering on much of the Malian population,
but they also left a heavy legacy of debt for Mali's internal and external
finances.
Uneven Recovery
7.        Normal rainfall resumed in 1975, and real GDP recovered sharply,
increasing by 38 percent between 1975 and 1978. The resource gap was reduced
from one-third of GDP in 1974 to 20 percent of GDP in 1978, although, over the
same period, net foreign assets declined from minus MF 61.9 billion to minus
MF 101.1 billion (US$242 million), remaining unchanged in 1979. This increase
in foreign liabilities, to the French Treasury on the operations account,
largely reflected a 20 percent annual growth in credit to the economy. The
Government's wage bill increased sharply over the same period because of cost
of living adjustments and the policy of Government to serve as employer of
last resort for nationals who complete secondary or higher education. On the
other hand, current revenues did increase significantly as a result of improved
tax collection, particularly in 1977, and the consolidated budget deficit
decreased from MF 10.2 billion (US$23.8 million) in 1975 to MF 6.6 billion
(US$13.4 million) in 1977, or about 14 percent of total Government revenues.
In 1978, however, expenditures grew twice as fast as revenues, and the deficit
for the consolidated budget amounted to MF 8.8 billion (US$19.5 million), or
17 percent of revenues. In 1979, expenditures spiraled, with personnel costs
alone accounting for 92 percent of total revenues. Revenues grew by only MF
2.6 billion (5 percent), and the budget deficit rose further to MF17.6 billion
(US$41.4 million), about one-third of total revenues. In 1980, the budget
deficit--almost entirely a current deficit--may be as high as in 1979.
8.        The "recovery years" brought other problems.  Large increases in
credit to the economy between 1974 and 1979 were used essentially to finance
operating losses of public enterprises. These losses, often attributable to
deliberate subsidies or price freezes, ultimately resulted in a substantial
increase in Mali's external indebtedness on the operations account. During
1978, credit to the economy grew by nearly 25 percent, mainly because of a



- 3 -
sharp increase in seasonal credit to finance the larger 1978-79 crop, but also
because of the substantial rise in non-seasonal credit to the commercial and
industrial sectors. The former was largely for increased import financing,
and the latter to the state enterprise sector, where operating losses in 1978
were over MF 14 billion. In 1979, credit to the state enterprise sector
absorbed MF 14 billion of the MF 21 billion total increase in credit to the
economy. Operating losses of the sector in that year were MF 23.3 billion.
9.        In mid-1977, a new monetary agreement was signed with France which
aimed at bringing about the conditions requisite for Mali's membership in the
West Africa Monetary Union by 1981. It imposed a very restrictive credit
policy on the operations of the Central Bank, notably in establishing more
stringent conditions on rediscount facilities (which involved penalty rates as
high as 15 percent) in order to limit the financing of deficits of state
enterprises. The agreement, however, does not appear to have been too success-
ful in this respect during 1978 and 1979, but indications are that it began to
be much more stringently applied in 1980.
10.       The 1978 current account balance -- excluding private investment and
Government grants--registered a substantial decline compared to 1977, moving
from a deficit of US$58.0 million to one of US$148.0 million. (The overall
balance enjoyed a US$21 million surplus in 1977.) In large part, this huge
deficit resulted from spurts in imports of cereals, non-food consumer goods,
petroleum and capital goods, and from a substantial drop in the value of
cotton exports--due mainly to a temporary fall in world cotton prices. On the
capital account, net long-term capital flows, including Government transfers,
increased by US$28 million in 1978, to a level of US$191.0 million, or almost
six-fold since 1975. In 1979 the current account balance was practically
unchanged over 1978 in Mali francs, but deteriorated by US$18 million as a
result of a fall in the dollar. Capital flows also remained practically
unchanged, as did the overall deficit. It was expected in 1980, however, that
Mali's current account position would deteriorate by about US$85 million to a
negative US$246 million. Much of this reflects a recent growth in Mali's
investment program, and is expected to be financed by a virtually equivalent
rise in capital transfers. With respect to the operations account position
with the French Treasury, the negative balance, after improving in 1977 by
almost MF 8.3 billion, deteriorated steadily, reaching MF 101 billion (US$223
million) by 1980.
11.       Despite the legacy of the drought, international inflation and the
lack of resiliency of economic institutions to respond, Mali's economic growth
performance has been reasonable. As noted above, growth between 1974 and 1978
was good, averaging 7.6 percent per annum. In 1979, real growth is estimated
at 11 percent; in 1980, however, it is projected to fall by about one percent.
Clearly these sharp fluctuations, in large part due to changes in rainfall,
put a sharp strain on the country's institutions. Indeed, growth has been
achieved at the cost of heavy and growing foreign indebtedness reflecting
Mali's negative domestic savings over much of the decade, and on balance
Mali's substantial absorption of external resources has not yet produced
commensurate gains.



-4-
Foreign Capital and Debt
12.       Public investment is practically entirely financed by foreign aid.
During most of the 1960s the USSR and the People½s Republic of China (PRC)
were the most important aid donors. At the end of 1975, they held in roughly
equal proportions nearly 57 percent of Mali's external public debt disbursed
and outstanding. Gross disbursements (grants and loans) from Development
Assistance Committee sources increased from US$24 million in 1969 to US$172
million in 1979. Roughly 60 percent came from bilateral sources (mainly
France, the United States, Germany and Canada). Since the early 1970s the
amount of public aid received by Mali has increased very rapidly, rising from
about US$5 per capita in 1971 to roughly US$27 per capita in 1979.
13.       Mali's external public debt outstanding at the end of 1979 (exclud-
ing drawings on the operations account with the French Treasury) was US$786
million, including an undisbursed amount of US$247 million. IDA's share in
the total amount disbursed and outstanding was 19 percent. Repayments of
principal and interest due in 1979 would have claimed about 20 percent foreign
exchange earnings, but actual debt service payments have been small (about 8
percent in 1978) owing to the rescheduling or de facto suspension since 1970
of PRC, USSR and some other debts. While occasional payments have been made
since then, Mali has recently been able to negotiate a more formal suspension
of debt service payments with the USSR and the PRC which is scheduled to last
through 1983. However, projections indicate that the actual debt service
ratio may go up to over 25 percent by 1985 unless some further rescheduling of
debt takes place, which is probable. (In late 1978, the Federal Republic of
Germany and Canada converted US$92.9 million of outstanding loans into grants.)
In transactions with the IMF, Mali drew SDR 35.5 million between 1974 and 1980
from the various Fund resources available to it.
Development Prospects
14.       The Five-Year Social and Economic Development Plan (1974-1978) gave
priority to agriculture, water and power development, industries processing
agricultural materials, and road transport. The overall size of the invest-
ment program is estimated at MF 543 billion (about US$1,165 million). Al-
together MF 427 billion (US$916 million) of this total was expected to be
realized during the plan period; at end-1978, total investments realized
amounted to MF 208 billion (US$446 million) compared with the MF 401 billion
planned for the period. The problem is more one of implementation than
financing with continuing delays being encountered in project preparation and
execution, particularly at startup. Following revisions to the plan in 1976
and 1977, the period for implementation was extended and priority is currently
being given to food crops, animal husbandary, minor irrigation works and more
efficient manufacturing activities. Despite the number of severe structural
problems which Mali faces, it has a number of prospects for real long-term
growth. Agriculture has considerable potential for expansion both in the
south where rainfall is highest and in the vast inland delta of the Niger
River through irrigation. The river also offers potential for power develop-
ment. Planned investment in new capacity for extracting cottonseed oil,
manufacturing cotton textiles for export, and producing sugar, together with



- 5 -
increasing crop and livestock production, may eventually strengthen the
balance of payments. Mineral resources (iron ore, phosphates) remain at
present unexploited, but may offer longer-term development possibilities, and
exploration for petroleum is currently underway.
15.       Sustained and viable growth of Mali's economy in the longer run
depends crucially on investments and policy measures that will strengthen the
economy's export base, particularly in agriculture. Mali's capacity to
finance new investment, however, is severely constrained among other reasons
by the limited savings potential resulting from the extremely low per capita
income level.
16.       Perhaps more important, however, is the fact that Mali's institu-
tional and structural imbalances have affected the project implementation
effort; growth, when achieved is achieved at great cost. A particular example
of Mali's institutional problems is the country's postal checking system, an
important adjunct to the limited, urban-based banking system for transactions
and savings. Under the Malian system, deposits (including remittances) into
the postal system must be redeposited with the Treasury. However, because of
its extremely strained liquidity situation, the Treasury has used these
deposits to finance current expenditures, not leaving sufficient liquidity in
the system to cover withdrawals. As a result, postal checks have become
increasingly difficult to cash and suppliers are reluctant to accept them in
payment. Thus these instruments are used increasingly to pay taxes in this
otherwise relatively illiquid, unusable, form. Particularly when these tax
payments are received by semi-autonomous Government organizations like the
Road Fund, they tend to block that organization's activities: their receipts
are utilizable only to a limited degree. Thus, the Government must address
itself to several interrelated objectives. The first is to correct the severe
financial imbalances that have developed over the years (worsening in 1979-80
to the point where net Government dissaving has been nearly 3.5 percent of
GDP); the second is to promote fundamental changes in the agricultural sector
(including price structure and resource allocation); and the third is to
reform the badly ailing state enterprise sector.
17.       Over the past several months the IMF and the Bank have been cooperat-
ing very closely in responding to a Government request for technical and
financial assistance for structural adjustment. In particular, the Government
has requested substantial Bank technical assistance in the agricultural sector
and its financing, with emphasis upon the liberalization of the grains pricing
and distribution system -- hitherto a major problem area.  The Government has
also requested an equivalent amount of technical assistance with a view to
revamping the state enterprise sector, with the understanding that underlying
structural problems will be addressed directly and the bulk of public enter-
prises will be transformed into joint undertakings with the private sector,
sold entirely to private interests, or even liquidated.
18.       Because Central Bank lending to the Government by statute is sharply
limited, continuing deficits obviously cannot be sustained, and some change in
public finances is clearly indicated, such as reducing the increasingly burden-
some personnel budgets. It is anticipated that some progress in reducing the



- 6 -
tendencies to public dissaving will be critical for Fund intervention as well
as for expanded Bank assistance in the crucial sectors identified above.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI 1!
19.       The proposed credit would be the Association's twenty-third credit
extended to Mali (including two supplementary credits), which would bring
total commitments of IDA funds to US$193.9 million equivalent. Of the twenty
operations already approved, eight have been for agriculture, seven for
transport, two for education, one for telecommunications, one for small scale
industries and one for urban development. Transportation represents the
largest share (42 percent) of past commitments followed by agriculture (38
percent). The experience with ongoing operations has been mixed, the cotton
project doing reasonably well, while groundnuts/cereals and livestock projects
have experienced considerable difficulty. Highway reconstruction and improve-
ment has been successful while highway maintenance has lagged. The railway
and education projects are being implemented, though somewhat behind schedule.
Implementation is beginning on forestry, urban and small-scale enterprise
projects. In general, project implementation and subsequent cost recovery has
been hampered by Mali's difficult public finance situation. Notes on the
execution of ongoing projects are set out in Annex II.
20.       The Bank Group's strategy in Mali is governed by (i) the extreme
poverty, poor health and low level of basic skills of a largely rural
population; (ii) a harsh natural environment with large fluctuations in the
availability of basic food supplies; (iii) a landlocked position with long
distances and difficult access to foreign markets; and (iv) an extremely
difficult macro-economic situation, in particular in the public sector.
The principal objectives of Bank Group assistance are (a) to support the
adoption of policies designed to encourage balanced economic growth, and to
redress the financial imbalances of the public sector and correct the biases
of expenditures now disfavoring rural areas; (b) to help finance investments
that will increase agricultural production; (c) to help meet the needs of the
rural population in terms of health, literacy and rural infrastructure; and
(d) to help provide an adequate transport and communications network. Given
the close linkages between macro-economic policy performance and project
implementation, the Government's ability to address policy issues will be an
important determinant of the scope and timing of future Bank Group lending.
21.       Future Bank Group lending for Mali will reflect a close liaison
between project objectives and related policy and institutional reform. In the
agricultural sector, follow-up operations to the earlier groundnuts/cereals
project and the Office du Niger technical assistance project are scheduled.
In both cases a major focus will be on pricing and institutional issues. The
recently approved Road Maintenance Project (Cr. 1104-MLI) addresses the
problem of recurrent cost financing in the road transport sector. Proposed
projects for telecommunications and power distribution will aim at improved
financial and technical management. Interventions are also envisaged for
rural health, rural water supply, and for the production of gasohol.
l/   Substantially unchanged from the Road Maintenance Project President's
Report (No. P-2954-MLI) dated February 11, 1981.



- 7 -
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
22.       Mali's energy situation has become critical because of heavy depen-
dence on imported petrolum products for meeting commercial energy requirements
and the exhaustion of its forests near cities and villages. Petroleum imports
amounted to US$54 million or 49 percent of merchandise exports in 1979, and
might increase to US$160 million by 1985. These difficulties have been
compounded by weak institutions, especially in the power subsector, the lack
of a coherent development strategy for the sector, and inadequate energy
pricing policies.
Resource Base, Output and Demand
23.       Mali-s energy resources are diversified but are as yet little deve-
loped. The hydropower potential (not including possible micro hydro schemes)
is estimated to be as much as 2,000 MW on the Niger and Senegal river systems.
The installed hydro capacity is only 5.5 MW at present but will increase to
nearly 55 MW with the commissioning of the Selingue multipurpose scheme on the
Niger River in 1980/81. Mali has no known coal deposits and the hydrocarbon
potential of its four sedimentary basins remains to be assessed. Oil shale
deposits of Agamor in the east are a possible source of hydrocarbons. Forests
cover 40,000 km2 , possibly holding wood reserves of about 150 million
metric tons. There are agricultural residues, primarily from production of
rice, sugar cane and groundnuts, which could be used for electricity/steam
generation. Solar and eolean energy is also of potential significance
especially in the northern part of Mali, but only pilot schemes operate at
present.
24.       Energy demand in 1979 is estimated at 710,000 tons of oil equivalent
or 115 kg per capita. This low level reflects Mali's early stage of develop-
ment and the limited importance of the industrial sector. Energy demand has
grown fast, largely as a result of rapid urbanization, averaging seven percent
per annum in 1974-79, or nearly twice the growth of GDP. Forest-based fuels
are by far the most important energy source, with firewood meeting about 69
percent of energy demand, charcoal 7 percent, and imported petroleum products
24 percent. There is a mismatch between energy resources and uses, as wood,
which is rapidly being depleted around population centers, covers nearly 76
percent of energy demand, whereas hydropower, accounting for 64 percent of
known resources, meets just 0.1 percent. Electricity accounts for six
percent of final energy consumption. Power generation, including captive
plant, was about 135 GWh in 1979, some 80 percent of which was diesel based.
Electricity supplies reach less than five percent of the total population and
perhaps 30 percent of the urban population, and annual per capita consumption
of 23 kWh is among the lowest in the world.
Sectoral Institutions
25.       Responsibility for the administration of the sector lies largely
with the Ministry of Industrial Development (MID). Within MID, the National
Directorate of Geology and Mines (DNGM) is in charge of fossil fuels and the
Directorate of Hydraulics and Energy (DHE) is responsible for electricity



development, research and development of renewable energy and energy planning.
MID also supervises the privately-owned petroleum importing and distributing
companies. The power utility is under the supervision of the Ministry of
State Enterprises. The Ministry of Rural Development is responsible for
forest management, and undertakes as well some charcoal production and market-
ing of forestry products. The Ministry of Finance and Commerce administers
fuel pricing, including taxation and subsidization. Decisions on energy
pricing are taken by the Council of Ministers.
26.       The Government has taken steps to bring about closer coordination
among Government agencies involved in energy. Working level meetings have
been held to review the hydrocarbon supply situation and, since July 1980, MID
has been convening interministerial meetings to review the options in develop-
ing domestic energy supplies. While these efforts are steps in the right
direction, there is need for an overall approach to devise sound policies, and
ensure effective administration of the sector. The proposed project would
help address this problem (para. 45).
Sectoral Objectives and Issues
27.       Since imports of petroleum products absorb a growing share of
foreign exchange earnings, sectoral policies aim at tapping indigenous energy
sources to the extent economically feasible. The Government intends to
develop all potential domestic energy resources. However, pricing policies as
yet have not been used to manage demand and ensure efficient energy use
throughout the economy (para 31).
28.       Investment Program.  The investment program in the energy sector
for the 1981-85 period is expected to amount to about US$115 million (in 1980
prices), most of it to be financed by foreign capital. About 52 percent of
this investment would be in the power sector, 40 percent in petroleum explora-
tion and eight percent for renewables. Besides investments in electricity
distribution being processed for IDA assistance, projects in the power sub-
sector include completion of the Selingue hydro scheme to supply Bamako and
other consumption centers. This would provide sufficient capacity until
1985. Other hydropower projects under preparation include the expansion of
the Sotuba hydroelectric plant which also is being considered for IDA financ-
ing. Plans for a 200 MW scheme on the Senegal river at Manantali are less
advanced and the economies of the scheme for Mali are unclear.
29.       Mali is undertaking various projects in renewable energy sources.
Several wood utilization and forestry projects are being implemented with
assistance from IDA (Credit MLI-883) and bilateral aid. The power project
under consideration by IDA (para. 28) includes the financing of a 2 MW bio-
mass power plant at Mopti Sevare. IDA is also considering a project to use
molasses (at present largely wasted) for producing initially about 2 million
litres per annum of high quality alcohol as an admixture to gasoline which
could eventually result in import savings equivalent to 10 percent of gasoline
consumption (or US$2.5 million per annum in 1980 prices). USAID is financing
a US$4.1 million solar energy project which is being implemented through DHE.
Finally, Mali participates in the UNDP-financed, IDA-executed, global project
for testing small scale solar pumping systems.



- 9 -
30.       The variety of energy projects under consideration results from the
desire of the Government to develop every possible domestic energy source.
However, the availability of foreign financing is sometimes a leading consid-
eration, rather than the project-s potential contribution to a least cost
development of the sector. In particular, the role of hydropower in energy
development needs to be more clearly defined. While it is the most important
known indigenous energy source, its development is costly because of the low
head of the major rivers and the need to inundate large areas. As yet the
potential for micro hydro schemes has not been inventoried. As concerns
renewable energy, results obtained in pilot schemes have not been extensively
disseminated and little effort has been put into studying, evaluating and
integrating relevant experiences in neighboring countries.
31.       Prices.  Until early 1980, petroleum product prices had not kept
pace with rising import costs; retail prices of gas oil, diesel and fuel
oil were held below delivered costs. During the first half of 1980, petroleum
product prices nearly doubled, which brought them fairly close to international
levels. However, inadequacies in the pricing structure persist, and there
are many preferential prices. For instance, public utilities and industrial
firms benefiting from the incentives law are exempt from fuel taxes, and
kerosene is taxed at lower rates than gasoline for social reasons. Electricity
tariffs have been increased infrequently and by small amounts despite rising
fuel costs. The utility therefore sustained mounting deficits which reached
MF 1.15 billion (US$2.7 million) in 1979, equivalent to 18 percent of revenues.
Although there was a 30 percent increase in tariffs in early 1980, it was
insufficient to restore the profitability of the power utility. A further
increase therefore is under consideration and is likely to be implemented
soon.
32.       The Government is aware of the need for continuously monitoring
energy prices to ensure efficient use of energy throughout the economy,
foster conservation and ensure the financial viability of the state energy
enterprises. IDA currently is financing a study on electricity prices due to
be completed by December 1983. The proposed project would include a study to
devise sound pricing policies for petroleum products. During negotiations, it
was agreed that before June 30, 1982 the Government would exchange views with
IDA on the recommendations of the study with a view to agreeing on a plan of
action for the pricing of petroleum products (Section 4.02, Development Credit
Agreement).
33.       Thus Mali is facing a difficult situation in the development of
its energy sector. In order to reduce dependency on imports for petroleum,
the Government would have to devise and implement policies ensuring the
efficient use of energy and the development of domestic resources. However,
the lack of trained staff compounded by the absence of basic data has hampered
the policy-making process. As concerns investment, while the Government
rightly places priority on hydropower, it also seeks to attract companies



- 10 -
to undertake petroleum exploration. Foreign oil companies have come forward
to invest in this activity in Mali (paras. 38, 44). Even a small discovery by
international standards would contribute dramatically towards meeting the
country's limited domestic requirements and possibly establishing an export
capacity.
Petroleum Subsector
34.       Consumption of petroleum products in 1979 totalled about 172,500
tons, or 27 kg per capita, which is among the lowest in West Africa. Demand
is entirely met by imports originating at Abidjan (nearly 65 percent), Dakar
(about 33 percent) and Parakou (two percent). Consumption growth has been
fast, averaging 7.5 percent during 1974-79 and accelerating over the last
three years when domestic petroleum product prices declined in real terms.
Transportation accounts for 52 percent of petroleum product consumption; power
generation, for 20 percent; industry and agriculture combined, for 20 percent;
and, the residential and commercial sectors, for eight percent. The Govern-
ment and public sector agencies absorb about 40 percent of petroleum products
consumption.
35.       Following international petroleum price increases, the cost of
petroleum imports has risen sharply from US$37.8 million in 1978 to US$54
million in 1979 when import volumes rose by about eight percent. In 1979,
petroleum import costs were equivalent to 21 percent of merchandise imports
and 49 percent of merchandise exports. While petroleum consumption in 1980
probably will grow little as a result of the recent retail price increases,
the cost of imports nevertheless is expected to rise to at least US$77 million
(or 56 percent of expected merchandise exports) given the recent increases in
international prices. In the medium term, even if annual petroleum consump-
tion growth is limited to around four percent through appropriate fuel pricing
policies and substitution of hydropower and other domestic energy sources for
petroleum products, 1/ the cost of petroleum imports nevertheless would reach
some US$155 million (current prices) by 1985, imposing a heavy burden on the
balance of payments should no domestic production be attained by then.
Institutional and Legal Framework for Petroleum Exploration
36.       Responsibility for petroleum exploration rests with DNGM, which
is also responsible for general geological work as well as for mining and
quarrying. It has a professional staff of over 40 geologists, including five
with a background in petroleum. A consultant study financed under the PPF
(para. 42) recommended establishment of a Hydrocarbon Division (HD) to be in
charge of coordinating petroleum exploration and supply. The Government
endorsed this recommendation, established the division and appointed its head
prior to Credit negotiations. The 1980 current budget of DNGM amounts to
MF 81 million (about US$190,000). Its investment budget for hydrocarbons
in 1980 amounted to MF 304 million (about US$720,000) and was devoted to the
activities leading to the proposed project.
1/   Overall energy consumption is projected to increase by about five
percent per annum during 1980-85.



- 11 -
37.       The Petroleum Code (of May 23, 1969) governs petroleum exploration
and production. Nonexclusive prospecting authorizations are granted for two
years (and can be renewed for one year) and allow their holder to carry out
only surface exploratory work. Exclusive exploration permits are granted
for an initial five-year term and can be renewed twice for three years. Their
holders can carry out all exploration activities in accordance with a program
agreed upon with MID. At each renewal, a third of the permit surface is
relinquished. In the case of a discovery, production permits are granted
for an initial term of 25 years, renewable twice for 10 years. Royalties of
12.5 percent on oil and five percent on gas are due. The income tax is set
at 50 percent. The recent exploration contracts (para. 44) provide for a 15
percent participation by the Government. Working commitments are negotiated
on a case-by-case basis. These terms provide a favorable framework for
investment by the international industry, while protecting Mali's interests.
Status of Exploration
38.       Mali has four main sedimentary areas.  The major one is the Taoudeni
Basin shared with Mauritania and extending for 600,000 km2 in Mali. The
others are the Gao graben (10,000 km2), the Nara Basin (40,000 km2) and the
Malian portion of the Jullemeden Basin (50,000 km2).  Hydrocarbon exploration
started in the early 60s and comprised mainly geophysical work. At present
SNEA (France) holds three permits: the Gao graben (in association with Murphy
(US)), the Nara area, and the southern portion of the Taoudeni Basin (Araouane
permit). Recent work by SNEA includes a geophysical survey of the Nara area
and the drilling of one well in the Gao graben which proved dry. In January
1981, ESSO (US) obtained a permit covering the northern part of the Taoudeni
Basin (para. 44).
39.       The Taoudeni Basin is the largest basin in West Africa.  It consists
primarily of old sediments which, although not as prolific in hydrocarbons as
younger sediments, are producing commercial oil and gas, particularly in
Algeria, Australia, China and the Soviet Union. The Abolag well drilled in
the Mauritanian portion of the basin in 1974 had a gas show. Although the
Taoudeni Basin is a relatively high risk area, it offers the best possibility
for hydrocarbon discoveries in Mali. Because of its sheer size compared to
the amount of exploration which has taken place, its hydrocarbon potential
remains to be established.
Conclusion
40.       Mali is at a turning point in exploring its hydrocarbon resources.
The high cost of petroleum product imports is contributing to a deterioration
of the balance of payments.  Even if hydropower and renewables replace
petroleum products in some uses, Mali will continue to import petroleum
products unless a domestic source can be discovered. In this respect, the
Taoudeni Basin offers the best prospects. The Government has adopted a
prudent strategy which is sound and would be supported by the proposed
project.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
41.       The proposed project was identified during the visit of an IDA
mission to Mali in March, 1979 and appraised in July 1980. Credit negotia-
tions were held in Washington, D.C. in March 1981. The Malian delegation
was headed by The Minister for Industrial Development. A credit and project
summary appears at the beginning of this report, and a supplementary project
data sheet is given in Annex III. No Staff Appraisal Report has been prepared.
Project Background
42.       The Government has followed a systematic approach to hydrocarbon
exploration. With two advances from the Project Preparation Facility amount-
ing to US$1,000,000, it retained the services of the French consulting firm
Bureau d'Etudes Industrielles et de Cooperation (BEICIP) to assist in (i)
compiling, reviewing and reinterpreting existing data on Mali's basins, 1/
(ii) reviewing and, if necessary, proposing amendments to the Petroleum Code,
(iii) assessing DNGM's needs for technical assistance, (iv) proposing to the
Government a strategy for petroleum exploration, (v) promoting Mali's hydro-
carbon potential to the industry, and (vi) assisting in discussions with oil
companies.
43.       BEICIP submitted its recommendations for hydrocarbon exploration
in June 1980. In view of the results of past exploration and the prospects
of the various basins, they concluded that the Government should concentrate
its efforts on the Taoudeni Basin, where they identified two targets; one
each in the southeast and in the northwest. Further investigation of these
prospects would require the following program of exploration: (i) in the
northern part of the Basin (which was not covered by a permit), the necessary
reconnaissance and detailed seismic surveys and one well with a paleozoic
objective, and (ii) in the southern part (SNEA's Arouane permit) one well
with an infracambrian objective on the Yarba structure which has already been
defined by seismic surveys. This program was deemed the minimum necessary
to provide the information needed to decide whether further exploration is
warranted or whether exploration should be postponed until new techniques
or new geological concepts develop. As concerns the legal framework, BEICIP
concluded that the 1969 Code was adequate considering Mali's hydrocarbon
potential. In order to obtain from the companies commitments to an intensive
program of work in a shorter time frame (three to five years), however, BEICIP
recommended that the Government consider providing for special incentives,
accelerated depreciation and undertakings for favorable financing of pipe-
lines.
44.       The Government endorsed the approach proposed by BEICIP and under-
took a promotion campaign aimed at attracting companies to explore the Taoudeni
Basin. The technical report prepared by BEICIP on the Basin was advertised to
1/   The work on the Taoudeni Basin was carried out jointly with Mauritania.



- 13 -
the industry during the summer of 1980. It elicited a good response as nine
companies had bought the report by the end of 1980. In December 1980, the
Government, with the assistance of BEICIP, began negotiations with ESSO for
exploration agreement on the northern part of the Basin. A contract was signed
in January 1981 which provides for a seismic survey and the drilling of a well
with a paieozoic objective at a total cost in excess of US$20 million. As
concerns the Araouane permit in the south, SNEA reached in early 1980 a conclu-
sion similar to that of BEICIP, namely that the next steps would be to drill
a well on the Yarba structure. Conclusion of the ESSO contract provided an
opportunity for cross-participation between the two companies. Agreement was
reached in February 1981 that SNEA and ESSO would finance jointly 100 percent
of the costs of the Yarba well, approximately US$20 million. Since the work
completed under the PPF was successful in attracting foreign oil companies to
fully finance the costs of drilling, the remaining work under the proposed
project has been tailored to assist the Government in deriving as much benefit
as possible from the exploration effort.
Project Objectives and Description
45.       The project would accelerate the evaluation of the hydrocarbon
potential of the Taoudeni Basin, strengthen DNGM/HD and strengthen the admini-
stration of the energy sector. Its immediate objectives are to assist Mali in
(a) a better understanding of the hydrocarbon potential of the Taoudeni Basin
and in evaluating the oil shale deposits of Agamor; (b) strengthening DNGM/HD's
capacity to evaluate and interpret geological and geophysical data to negotiate
with oil companies and to monitor the activities of operating companies; and,
(c) carrying out studies necessary to strengthen administration of the energy
sector.
46.       The project would provide technical assistance to help the Govern-
ment evaluate the hydrocarbon potential of the Taoudeni Basin and to strengthen
institutional capabilities for energy planning. Technical assistance would be
provided for three tasks:
(a) Exploration. Exploration consultants have been engaged under the
PPF to promote the Taoudeni Basin to foreign oil companies and to
negotiate exploration contracts. These services would be continued
to monitor the activities of operating companies and to integrate
the data collected into DNGM/DH s interpretation of the Basin. A
petroleum accounting system would be set up designed to monitor,
control and audit expenditures by operating companies (60 man-
months, of which approximately 50 completed);
(b) Research. Technical evaluation of the quality of the Agamor
oil shale deposits would be conducted in two phases. First,
existing data on the deposits would be reviewed, shale samples
would be collected and given laboratory tests (7 man-months).
If the conclusions of the first phase are positive the consultants
would, in a second phase (thirty man-months), carry out an estimate
of the reserves and prepare a preliminary feasibility study. A



- 14 -
condition for disbursing the funds relating to the second phase
would be for the first phase to conclude to the satisfaction of the
Government and the Association that the second phase is warranted
(Schedule 2, Part B.4, Development Credit Agreement); and
(c) Energy Studies. Studies would be conducted to:
(i)  review the present supply, pricing and taxation policies
for petroleum products and devise rational pricing policy
(6 man-months);
(ii)  conduct a systematic evaluation of the existing informa-
tion on the energy sector in order to prepare a diagnosis
of the sector including identifying the major sectoral
issues, outlining a strategy for development and defining
the scope for further work (10 man months); and
(iii)  assess the institutional, training and technical assistance
needs to strengthen the policy-making and project prepara-
tion capability of MID (4 man-months).
47.       Training and Equipment.  Terms of reference for consultant services
include on-the-job training of local counterpart staff, and in addition,
eight fellowships for specialized courses would be provided for training
abroad: two geophysicists and four geologists from DNGM/HD, and one economist
and one engineer of DHE. The project also would finance the establishment of
a small library, and the provision of laboratory and field equipment as well
as storage for well samples, geological and geophysical documents.
Cost Estimates
48.       The total cost of the project net of duties and taxes is estimated
at US$4.0 million, including the US$1.0 million PPF advance which is nearing
full disbursement. The total cost of one man-month of consulting services
has been estimated at US$15,500 including travel, subsistence and overhead.
This amount is reasonable taking into account the high level of expertise
required and the fees prevailing in the petroleum industry as confirmed by
the work completed under the PPF. Physical contingencies of ten percent and
price contingencies of 10.5 percent for 1980, nine percent for 1981 and eight
percent for 1982 and 1983 have been applied and total US$0.7 million, or
21 percent of base line cost. Retroactive financing of US$200,000 has been
provided to bridge the anticipated gap between full disbursement of the PPF
and Credit signing. Estimated costs by project component are given below:



- 15 -
Project Cost Summary
Foreign   Local   Total
…(US$  000)…
Exploration
Consultants a/                  1,750      140      1,890
Equipment                          410       -        410
Training                           165       -        165
Subtotal                   2,325      140     2,465
Agamor Oil Shales
Consultants                        500      50        550
Energy Studies
Consultants                        200      50        250
Training                            35       -         35
Subtotal                     235                285
Base line costs                       3,060     240      3,300
Physical contingencies             220      20        240
Price contingencies                420      40        460
Subtotal                     640       60       700
TOTAL                                 3,700     300      4,000
a/   Includes US$1,000,000 advance under the PPF.
Financing Plan
49.       The proposed IDA credit of US$3.7 million would finance 100 percent
of the foreign exchange costs or 92 percent of the total project cost, with
Government providing the remainder.
Project Implementation
50.       MID would implement the project.  DNGM would be responsible for
the technical assitance for hydrocarbon exploration and the assessment of
the Agamor oil shale. It expects to retain the services of BEICIP as explora-
tion consultant for the duration of the project. This firm has performed
satisfactorily for work financed by advances under the PPF and the proposed
arrangement would be satisfactory to IDA. Oil shale consultants would be
employed by June 1981. DHE would be in charge of the energy studies with the
assistance of consultants expected to be employed mid-1981.



- 16 -
51.       All consultants would be acceptable to the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation and employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
To ensure adequate counterpart availability, assurances were obtained that
before the end of each calendar year, starting with 1981, the Government
would report to IDA on the staffing of DNGM/HD (Section 3.06, Development
Credit Agreement).
52.       The Government has already sold copies of the report prepared by
BEICIP and plans to continue selling some of the data collected during project
implementation. Assurances were obtained that the proceeds of any such sales
(expected to amount to US$100,000) would be used for further investment in the
hydrocarbon sector (Section 3.07, Development Credit Agreement).
53.       The drilling of the two wells  (para. 44) would be the respon-
sibility of ESSO and SNEA under the respective exploration contracts and
operating agreements. The exploration consultants would assist the Govern-
ment in monitoring the activities of the foreign oil companies. The project
is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.
Procurement and Disbursements
54.       Office, laboratory and storage equipment to be purchased are small
items that would not attract international competitive bidding. Competitive
bidding procedures of the Borrower would be used, which are satisfactory
to IDA. Disbursements would be made against 100 percent of foreign expendi-
tures for consulting services, equipment and training. A condition for
disbursing the funds relevant to the second phase of the assessment of the
Agamor oil shale reserves is for the preliminary phase to conclude to the
satisfaction of the Government and the Association that the second phase is
warranted (para. 46). An advance of US$1 million from the Project Prepara-
tion Facility would be refunded upon effectiveness of the Credit (Section
2.02(b), Development Credit Agreement). The Credit is expected to be fully
disbursed within three years of effectiveness.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
55.       DNGM and DHE would keep separate project accounts that would be
audited by auditors acceptable to the Association (Section 4.01(b), Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). Financing of these audits has been included in the
Credit. DNGM and DHE would submit quarterly and annual reports on implemen-
tation of the project in a format acceptable to the Association (Section
3.04(b), Development Credit Agreement). They would also submit a project
completion report not later than six months after the Closing Date (Section
3.04(c), Development Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits
56.       The technical assistance to DNGM would provide DH with the technical
and human resources needed to liaise with oil companies, monitor their acti-
vities and conserve and interpret any data acquired. Agamor is as yet the
most important known accumulation of hydrocarbons in Mali. The research to
be conducted under the project will determine whether the Agamor oil shales
present an energy option worth pursuing. This information is necessary for a
full appreciation of the domestic resource base.



- 17 -
57.       The energy studies would provide the Government with a rational
petroleum product pricing policy, a diagnosis of the energy sector, and an
outline of the strategy to follow including an assessment of the resources
needed to strengthen the administration of the sector. In view of the increas-
ingly serious foreign exchange drain from oil imports, the development of an
effective plan including demand management and the identification/promotion of
renewable energy use as an alternative to oil are important benefits, although
unquantifiable at this point.
58.       The primary objective of promoting exploration of the Taoudeni
Basin and attracting foreign capital which would not otherwise be available
to the country largely has been achieved with two foreign oil companies
agreeing to finance two wells (para. 44) estimated to cost more than US$40
million. Any commercial hydrocarbon discovery would have a significant impact
on the country's economy in view of the critical energy situation. Even
without a discovery, however, Mali will have a better understanding of its
hydrocarbon potential and the required information to plan adequately the
development of its energy sector.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Mali
and the Association, and the Recommendation of the committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
60.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III of this report.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment                                   by Ernest Stern
Washington, D.C.
April 1 , 1981



- 18 -
Page I
TABLE 3A
MALI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HAt I                          REFERFNCE GROlUPS (WEIGFITED AVF}GFS
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-L_
TOTAL            1240.0
AGRICULTURLAL     398.0                                 MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME              MIDDLE TNCOMF
1960  /f    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHAPA  AFPICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    50.0        70.0      140.0                 260.0                   868.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(RILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       15.0         21.0       30.0                  80.0                   699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       4.1          5. 1       6. 3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 11.0          14.9       18.8                  17.3                    28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         11.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          28.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2170
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. t21.                        3. 0         4.0        5.0                  27.4                    61. 7
PER SQ. XM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       11.0        13.0       16.0                  82.6                   126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTLRE (PEprCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.5         43.4      45.2                   44.9                    45.5
15-64 YRS.                          53.8         53.9      52. 1                  52.2                    51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2. 7         2. 7      2.7                    2.8                     2. 8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.1          2.4        2.5                   2.7                     2.7
URBAN                               2.8          5.4        5.6                   6.8                     4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      50.0         49.0       49.0                  47.4                    46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      27.0         24.0       22.0                  19.6                    16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.8         3.3        3.3                   3.2                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD FRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          103.0        100.0      92.0                   91.8                    94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    86.0         94.0      90.0                  90.2                     92. 7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           56.0         59.0      57.0                   53.0                    53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        15.0         16.0      15.0                   18.4                    15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      41.0         35.0      32.0                   27.7                    21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.0          40.0       42.0                  45.3                    50.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           210.0           ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..       9.0                  23.2 32.n
URBAN                                ..         29.0      42.0                  58.0                    6A.R
RURAL                                ..           ..       3.0                   16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          8. 0       ..                   28.9
URBAN                                .          63.0        .,                  67.0
RURAL                                ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          38636.0/c   42504.0   24098.0                30910.4                 1450S.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      4982. 0/c.d  3956.0    3076.0                5793.2                   3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAI                            1472. 0/c,e  1420.0/e  1743.0                1198.9                  1141. 5
URBAN                             302. O/c. e   984.0
RURAL                            2849.0/c,e  1539.0
ADMISSIOSS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         27.3        ..                    ..                       .
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..       4.8
URBAN                                ..           ..
P'RAL                                ..           ..
AVERAG-E NULYSSE UF PERSONS PER ROOM
TAL                                  ..           ..
URiBAN                               ..           ..
kURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO ElECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DlWFLLIN5S)
-OTAL                                ..           ..
LURAN                                ..           ..
PUPAL                                ..           ..



- 19 -
Page 2
TABLE 3A
MALI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALI                          REPEINElCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE5GES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE
MUST RECENT           UY INCME                MIDDLE IFCOtE
1960  /b    1970 kl ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTP OP SARARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARYt     TOTAL                 10.0        26.0      28.0                  57.7                    61.7
MALE                  14.0        33.0      36.0                  74. 2                   69.2
FEMALE                6.0         18.0      20.0                  54.1                    51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  1.0         5.0       7.0                  10.0                    20. 6
MALE                   1.0         8.0      11.0                  13.7                    29.2
FEMALE                0.3          2.0       4.0                   7.1                    14.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (E OF SECONDARY)  15.0/f       40.0      25.0                   6.8                     7.0
PUPIL-TEACRER RATIO
PRIMARY                            45.0        40.0      27. Oa                45.0                    36.6
SECONDARY                          14.0        15.0        ..                  25.2                    24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         3.0/c        ..       10.0                 25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0         2.3       2.1                   3.6                    38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TROUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0        12.0      14.0                  31.5                    83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          ..        ..                   1.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   0.2         0.5       0.5                   4.6                    24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0           ..        ..                    ..                     0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      2331.2      2843.6    3381.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  48.0         47.4      47.0                  33.5                    38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              94.0        91.0      88.0                  80.7                    54.3
INHUSTRY (PERCENT)                  2.7         4.1       6.0                   8.1                    17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                57.8        56.5       55.1                 42.2                    38.8
MALE                                 60.3        59.6      58.5                  55.1                    48.4
FEYALE                               55.3        53.4      51.7                  29.5                    29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8         0.8       0.9                   1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARCET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..      98.0                 138.2
RURAL                               ..           ..      60.0                  86. 1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..      61.0                 107.0
RURAL                                ..          ..      37.0                  65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOt ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..           ..      27.0
RURAL                               ..           ..      48.0                  66.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
{c   1962;  /d Government Personnel;  L Government hospital establishments;  tf Not including private
vocational schools; /g Series revised.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 20 -
Pose S
DEF1INITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  Although the dota or  drow   fret       ur    generally jdged the meet oothonitotive end  -1e.le         , it ehould .1e  he noted then theY may not be inte-
ntio-hlIy _toporeIab he. o-       f the took of etedardiead definition. end ton.opte me.d.by differen.t  o.truirte  in  -1iletti.g  the dote.  Th. done ore,eo-
rhelco u..ea.ful to dantrih   ordre of soniude., indi.tot  trnde. oa  oharotnrtee corsts eaor".  diff ..ern...et.  hunt-autrtn.,
The  ooet  group. 00  (1  the on- t--try grou.p of the subject tootry and (2) e country grop nith eamehet hge   vrg   noete   h   onr   ro
of th  euh)cn  tontry  cocep  for  CaPitol OSrplue Oil teportters" groc  oh.re  'Middle I.oon  North Africa cod Middle tEen" L   hoe.. b..c.e. at  tronget
eotc-oulcreletfiitte).   I  the reeenegroo,p dete rho  -verag- ar  Popa1otion weighted eritheetit noefrsehidceo   n  fonolyrhea
lacer half of .thei tosnini           ru   o 8  dot o  nhot itditenor.  Sinc  the  --erge of Ifoontrise emag the 1ndi-tno- depende ton the  _voilbility o
deto  od i  oot  nifom, tctiensuetbe eornied  torelening o.eregee of one indi-etor tc  -nther.  Th...eevor.goeero tonly ueful in tmeigthe vJoie
of tn- intiot-u en e-t nin  -oog the  outry en:eonItgos.
TLtS 1 di   Tnheeen  aqat.)                                                                   hoooic.osI.   r..d  ..  ePltien  ePr Physitlin-  rePutatin dirl1dd by nanher oa postaiting phy-
otl-701eurfteI 000  oompt-ieig1 load 000ad  itendIil coteF._             tl         e..iltnse  quelifitd from  endicol etheol  tot   ..ivatity le,el'
Agrioultool - totione cf oricolaaro  opec oee  temptoe Iyo   or                   '-y ooano   e  gorelonPe :e.P PopLetion divided by ember of pracnitin
for -rP-, peo ee,  k.,a end kitohen gerdene or to lie follow; 1977 dote.                  mete en  f_mle  reotetrce  preonitel noree.  end -estennnete
Pomejatin  ar e  Sig   Ned   tonl ora,ad natal - PoPu1atg.an  (total,
iPPt CAPITA (002) .- 06? per oepitc e.,ti.te  en corroot s_phe  pri-ee, tel-                  orben,  nd penildiided b  nhir resp'tniv   iSa   of hegtitl bode
tolcred byeon oooverio  tnehcd eo World Sank Atlee (l977-i9 bee. fe; 1960,              evolabla in poblg od Wpriv_t  geea$           ede__.Je   botta                 a
1970, cod  1979date.                                                                           haiiainonee    feicoea                     dtbift    smmnl   tfe
by aleAMt on  phyeioien.  fttsbli.helaente pro'iding pnienipelly totowtial
tNRulY CONSiOMTION PER CAPITA - A_o_a  c-etpti.n of  oeriteeg   oca                              caear       ta intiodod.  Stool heopincle, hoaeeer  icloda health ned mjedi
end ligoito, petroota  naoerel gee end hydro *  ula   odgobro   eta-                           cneannprc tyea  a   ycpyitn(o   yo dcleeset
tr ioiny) it kilogreso  tolooveetproepigel i9b0, 197, end 11978                                anree. miwie p     nn.)tlhith ffo   in-pen            boo bynntno     pvnvW-idatma
dote.                                                                  hama~~~~~~~~~~~~~i.td rage of mediost faciitien.  Fer ettietital pturpeene etho  beapi-
POUAINADVITAL STATISTICS                                                                 t.ideilate WM. printip.1 geeeo  cod epenisliaed heopitS., -d rua
Tend  Ptruetlcn. 01-loee  (WIliene ..  As of July 1; 1960, 1970. end 1978               hdmiecilo oar. 1 orne -od - Toltol  ,bd   ofi cdeaie -tnot or dscbra
dote.                                                                                        from hoe1pitele divided by  Tthe 1at ber  of hdo.       i         t   9     S
Urhen Poolp lc  Cntn  cfnt                R- tic  of urban t  total population;"                                           b   h   .b.   fb.
=iffeoot dftinitiono of orb encoenma:ff.ott topereility of Acne                         nMsgtao
oenostoioae; 1960, 197, end 19 78 dot.                                                 Avra   ieo   itsod(oener  osbl)-ttl   ro.adne'
Porsietio       ..c -PCocltatniioopoj.ti..er   b..                                       A h-eehabd   UoNoin  of eg-tp of individee1a  ho eheos livinog qeatore
Potuletion in yar 2000 - Curren  popolenion projctiane are beea   on 6 -no ed their .ein ecle.  A hoarder or ledger nay or nay oct be in dod in
nonte opltinby oge end a-  and their menelity an  fertility renee.                        the honee.hold for etotiatite1 PotpoeOe..
Prjeot1ion poreetere focr aotonlity reI et mpie  of thre  levlaocma                     A-eroe. nt.bar ofnecsoera- totl orb!n. and  -ura  - Avcrnge   -
nglfe enpett...cy on birth  lotese    ith t.entry'. pe   aieitn                        hro   oen   e   otl  olubn=n   oe   ooitoeatea
lee,  n ZSnla life oxpe.ttnoy  tneilisism  en 77.5 ymeae  PTOo: par-                d.elline  repe-nivaly.  Swelling.  ntolde noo'pan-ent etrtorme ned
ntere for ferItility rote o1oc have three levlscemeio  declie  in                          unoc.idpon.t.
ftrt lliny aotordig to iocn  level end pent feily planning pertrf.onte.                 Acesnfltrtt  (2erotofwl g-tta.renedrul-
Each fotetry i. then ..esigned one of these nine cobntio.  of eortolity                   Covninlhiigtit lcrct   slvngqane   spratg
adfertil"ity nrnde_for proJeotion pttrpoe..of Cnonotl. dorb                                                  ian endnoe    dtee ingts rL.oIvay
Stotliosr  t.oolcntn-  In    eAtnion"y population ther  ia en goonth cince                      tt1    b.    .          .  4119 .p. .y
the hirth rote Ce  qu1n the I deth rate  end ola  the  ge .etoatcre I-    tDUCAXW
nans tonion.  Th  ie I    chi,n  onlY oftnor fertility retee' denim   no             Adisetad ftroilsant gitise
the replocenet leve  of cnit non reprodoction rte, when ..th genertio                       oe-yebo I- noa...eed  eae    rae total, male eat femal
ofw  Inoplcsisl  ett.Teetcoiyppoemnee  weerlmeto   l   as   nnap                                                            -nr   ee   n  scnsnofrGste
eaiane   o  the bhatie of the pr.oj`thd teteitieof the  :popotion                            primary eholoapopoletiot            eemlly inoldte childre  egd 6-il
it the yeeo 2000, end the rote of decline cf fertility rato no rplena-                       yoare hot odjoeted for diifferenn  isnanh. of prfacry dstonio; for
Y-e stationay  oeieicoisreuhd - The yenr when stationry ppoinanont con popih   ar .blow                                          tricow  nba of fiia  aeele 1Oa.p. t
nise bac been reached.                                         Secondary  oheL- Itotal, mal and femle - Compted en  bees; encetoy
Poculonlen isneity                                                       e~~~~~~~~doc.tion reqoiree en Ient f 000 yasre of approvd Prmy I    strutise;
Pete.the.   Mid-yost PoPulction Per square kilometer (100 he.tnarn) of                        p-eidee geee,&         onos,or teachertanigi.tuto   for pupib
for eq.h. ociclucl ed - Coputed a. ohev  for egri-olir-1 land                                  enclyoda     2td7..r   fS;I    .e  ~wo    -.                        1  - 1
only.      J                                                                              Vocaionld nrllen  (           et of  aont ) - Vctional icetitenisma
iiyee. ed retired  (65 ysrt  se4 avr) oe peros. ag.   of mid-yea  pops-                  dontly or es depertmsnt  of aecondery iostitatiooe.
lto;160, 1970. end 1978 dote.                                                          Porol- eahr ratio - oPar.adaoney-Tnleoan   noldi
,ponolenico iGronnh Rse t.a(prtat) -  otetl - Annua  growh pene of nttal mid-                    prmar  edaeoney  evl  divid d.by  oT t.1r of-dcerot  in1lthe
yea  popoletion   f or 1950-60, 16-0.do 1970-if.                                               oorropodo  .-irreleb.-br   o     -hI   i   h
,Pcolaotc it  rowth Rare (percen)`-  rben - Aisnol gtocth fence of orban p0p5-                 Aduln lt soot r-otefnon)-  iooaaoe(hcn  ra   n   ie
loni.on  for 1950-60, 1960-70, end 1970-78.asepcnngofttldutpoonnogd1yaredovr
Crate Sioth Sae  leer tbcoeaoC  - Aneal ILiv  hirthe per tboseen   of mid-year.  .  ..o   tt1dI     plt-gd1   er     0..I
popcletiao; 1960. 1970. end 1978a date.                                                 fOeStMPTioef
Crude Sooth Rte (Per tbocaed) - A-ool daethe per theosond or pid-yeer                        Pooena Cae(orthwad  -oolatio     - P-sengr coo. tempLee motor
populonion; I96O, 1970, and 1978 data,coneon   iee ita  eigt paron; eatldas  -uleaos, hears-en ad
iro.. Sooroduotion  Mtot- A-rego  o,b-r of deogonerre o  ome  will bear loniinr  reigc hee.
he ,cnlrprcdootivopro   fotsoein                  reo   oge-epecitirf-              Radio Receivrs (.reph ....oed coosletict) - All typ.e of reoaivere f or rada
colicy yretn;     -ue catfio-yc  cegeodiog  in 1960, 1970, ond 1977.                         bomteot   rna    ultporoon   fpplto;acos   ni
rell bPloinoAoroe   oIo (hsed)-ana  cebor of ecoptore                                          anorc iver  in to rie  and in yeaer  when regleronmo  ofrdi
ohir-ctodei cee. -dor .u.pico ofcein"  0eil Ipaoi  progr-m                                o  On efeont; deno for reeryer   aynth  comarbl    ofsc  meet..
Pencly olooine  U-er   (trenof neor~nd Fom                   r - ...oetaoe of earned            c,nro ob.1ishod licooing.
conanof oild-bario   Ofe  15-4  yeao) wh  toobirth-cct-tol devicca tc        TV toceiv-r bo  thse             polatio)-  TO rao..ovre for broattot to
al   arid sn   nee          grOOp.                                                      gon..r-1 publit pern  . thoson  P.po.ti,    enodee anlinensd TVecevc
0000 Alto NUTRITI00                                                                              in conoeed in yearn whe  reiatoartion of TV  ate on  inof ffat.
Lod-   fFood Pd.cti  I C-ei"   (196- 1-10) - Id. of pr ..pi.  =        t no-ro  Cintuleticn (ten tho.o.ond onrtlati2n) - Shoo  the antn   iroinl-e
Tndru  f roodProdooion co  Coron  (16-110)-ldetfpr  aiaonol                           no  of "doily generel Onreroat owppgsr". defined en oeiodical pub-
Prdcioc   lifnd             oednse.rdrinonldnoorn  feedbotof                                 liconioc devoteId prinerily ton reta.rding general ne..In i. caidmred
ie on colonder ynor 5.000.  Cooditcottovn.r pronary gode (e.,g.  toaooe          c  ho "doily" if on oppora an loser fosr tIIe a wek.
iocodo   sgr   hich err  dihlo . otconnotnnu.triooto  (e.g.  ofoend                    Cinen  A=nul Atrond-encer00  Copito Pcr Year - Boesd on the etahr of
too oro- onidod).  A9Iggrtot prcdootio  of ooh oontry ia beced 00lct    .ddrgt.le, .Ii                                                       i.- t  r-..-
c     -ooaovrge pod .oer prico weights'; 1961-6 5. 1970, end 097  dtn.                  titdn   ooild dotin..       er   nloigamsinccdoei   in
Pot toojoc esooly of tolorios (crrrenn ot~r   onoieene  - Computed fro            t nlt  ais
cory  qiel  f. Octf fodteoppIiOOeoiei  intao-try pr capite                  LARFOC
per dey.  Av-iloblo         oupIr  tuppis  done.tic prodrtion, Saporte I...             Tona lbo   Pcr   th ade) - Soonomiclly active pereon, Snolattg
_cport,en  thcngea in etork.  Slot eoppliea nelodo etios  feed  ..od.                       cnd _L rForros andhplyd but eco.Ldingh ..a.ive  sooden.- etc.
qoannitieuodi  food proornn . cd Ioe... in dienrihetion.7nRqoire-                          .deflccir.. Oc r-iu    onre   r   c  tmael;16.17   n
aento 0000 ee'laicd hy riO' hsd on phyniolaica1 noe.de for ocrmI anti-                     tME doto.
viny and hoolth  oo.eideoing  -niroanate1  tanoo              ody weighte. ai              nl (trrent) - Fmale  labor foro. .. percentage of noa  labor f.ore.
hoi otid di-rhoio  ot61 o65    lo1i70,   en1,d7oL=t.rei     10 P`t--fr   at   t         Aocutr  (perct)t  - Lehcr forc  in  eoiog, fomntry, bn-ati.  oa
hoseehod leve; lOhi-S, 197, and 177 don.  .....t             e    .i.         fiehiog oapetnengo or  ototl labor f.ore; 1960. 0970 eat 1978 da-..
Pro c-pp orly I   of porotyi Nret ror dly)          rti ono of fpdi   .i.    .b     Rrtoin  Indoetry (pr....nt) - labor f.or  in mining, ronstrution. nenfoctorio
00q  upl.    f   odprdoy   Ne   opyo   co odfndoeaoe    e                                  ed oloctriity. ester end go. oe percentage of toaa1 labor foc;1960.
quroocs  o  oi     toocieo retobliehod hy USIA proide for 010mm                         1970 end 1970 dano.
el-co-eo   0  rm   of noto1 poIrtoI per d.y end 20 goon of enmo  -d                     Pancota   oe(nret      oa.ml. adfna-Priiate0
yso rtin, of which 10 goon  hboold be  nimal prrrtein.    1en  to0atiiy  eie  re  omuntd ce tonal . m4s  on  femal  labor fonts e
irdn err lowr than tce..  of 75 goon of total pronein end 23 g-oon spercennagee of  tona, male and fanl,  popultion of a1llosas  r-sootivl.y;
animal protoic oe en  -vog  for the world, propre.ed by Pan i0 the Third                   1960. 1970. andt1975 dana.  Thoee  are OLD'. pertioiptinn rates redleInng
World Food S-rry; 1961-65.,197  end 1977 dote.                                             ego-en etroto    of the popoltion. end long time trend.  A fmo neti-t
p.. oo  roeneolyfo   nne  n                       s  - P.rotein topyof fond da-              metoe Are f roe nationalen as
riv-d fromatal  endi psleol   ofoeprda;1961-65, 1970 and 1977.done.   Eoonomit Daned-ny Benio - Satin of population ente  15 cot 65 an  ever
Child (aa.. I-,i)Mortalt Rabto (noR~ nh edt - Anotl doethe per th-oosd In                      not -the total labor forne.
a2.ge rep 1-4 yaa  no cildren i  this ago groop; for nest developing ooe-
trioo dote doniv-d fre  lifo  tablee; 1960, 1970 end 1977 dane.                         loIoNCO  DlTISTRBTION
toeectooty en mirth                                              ~~~~~Per-nos of Privat   -oo   (both in   -.eh end kind) - Received by richest
REA                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 percent. ricee   20tIp-root, panreat 20 p.reoten  end poor-at 40 percent
Lif                        (venra e  ~ E~ ) - Avrero a oober of yoo-  of life  roninig         of ho-,,he1do.
on lib't; 1960 a1970 end 1970 dane.
Iof-Io MorcelitY bra (Por thcoeood) - Annea  d-enh  of iefeto coder00  y...    POVLRT TARGET GROUPS
of1  g, per chocoond live hirthe.                                                           iniaed1hcun.oety -rm  Loel (0051 no  -po t.) - cren  -at rua-
Acroe  to OafaWor (rrrnto    olanio)-  totlNra, n   oa   -                                    Aelote peot   noelviO  hniro    oa   eo    hc      lia
ilobe  ofpepl  (tna. uhe,  nd  001)  it  rnsooho oto. o of            -tridtianely adequate diet ple  esnIo  no-food requiremane ie oct
:oerspply (icrlcdoe nrctdo ourfae wotors or untrnetd hot ontontencr                        f, fodble.
woco  euh.erio  free protocted bofeholos, aprings, en   oioy0d)0                            eied.-itie  ovry cenLIe'llOn   ooie  -ors -ntrrgf-
porrorago   of their roeP-ciro populoItone.                ,, Touh erooophlic1                oro   rltiePo-ertY inron  leve   eon-hrcfvao                        eropit.
foo.cet  or etodpcer loco.nod co  more thoc 200 mterer  frm_        -be  may h.              poreosl i-ro   of throo-try.  Orhbn leve  i. derived fro  the rura
-oolro    0beiwthit roecblo  coeo   hthae   fIntrorl  rec                                     ovlwtidjuonment f or hifler rcnt of liviog 1  -n b-senraes.
r...oo.hbeorres= gwoc1d imly"that th  huoifo or Iamhr  ofrh  housrhcl                      tnd         Prltc   oonAolnooetyScm                        ee roef otn   - rban
doc   oeospeod o disprcportiooaro  porn of she doy in ftettisg the                  co1ca       rrn    fpplno    obnedne) who ore "abeolot  poor".
fomly' 0otr  ed..
diarpe ... I Pr--ta0e   of the ir respor tire Popoletione.  tcotron   die-                                                   E-ononi  an  Socia  ions Divicio
Pcael  .y intlude the oalcined diep-co, with or oinh.oi troseent,o                                                     foon.om  Analyale endIPojton   Dmpartmsn
of h_ma  cocroto cod won-vnr htI  ycoo-horube  aystin  or rho aeo of                                                                         October 0980
Pit priri.. and eimJjor i....lnina



ANNEX I
- 21 -                                            Pg 
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1977-78             1977                    1978                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant priceo
US$ Min.      %        us$ Min.      %                  1970-1978            1977             1978
GDP at Market Prices !    /               696.3       100.0     839.2       100.0                  4.1                7.4            -2.6
Cross Domestic Investment-                 109.3       14.9      124.8       14.9                  6.0                7.4             0.1
Gross Domestic Saving a/                    45.7        6.6      -25.6       -3.1                   .  /               .b/
Current Account Balance                   -63.6        -8.3    -150.4       -17.9
Exports of Goods, NPS                      148.6       21.3      123.0       14.7                 10.                32 7/          -24.0
Imports of Goods, NFS                     212.2        29.7     273.4        32.6                 16.fc/              8.OS/          21.6
OUTPUT AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added
us$ Min,      %
Agriculture                                313.3      37.3
Industry and Construction                 138.9       16.6
Services                                  387.0       46.1
Unallocated                                  -         -
839.2     100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
(Billion 1Nf)         % of GDP
1979  /          1979A/    1973-75
Total Receipts                           54,9             11.3        11.7
Current Expenditure                      72.5             15.0        15.6
Current Surplus                                                          9 -3.6
e/            -17~~.6            3.6        0:4
Capital Expendituref/                     36 1              .      4 3
External Assistance-                     11.8 2-4                      3,8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES (Billions KF)A/
1972          1973           1974          1975          1976           1977          1978        1979
Money and Quasi Money                  35.2           39.1           57.7          68.3          77.5           96.8          118.4       135.9
Credit to Government                   47.7           52.3           58.7          66.7          72.5          96.4           102.8       107.6
Credit to Economy                      34.1           43.3          69.7          102.2         122,           107.0          133.1      152.3
Credit to State Enterprises
(short-term) h/                      20.9           28.4          46.4           70.8         88.0           67.2            83.6       95.4
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP      19.9           21.4           29.5          26.4          25,7           28.3           31.3        28.1
Annual Percentage Changes:
GDP Deflator  i/                        0.6            6.6            2.2          24.8          11.0            6.9            8.8       12.0
Credit to Government                    5.3           11.0           12.2          17.6           8.7           33.0           10.8        4.7
Credit to Economy                      23.1           27.0           61.0          46.6          20.0           12.7           25.4       14.4
of which:
Credit to State Enterprises            13.8           37,9          63.4           52.6          24.3         -24.8            24.4       14.1
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
a/  IMF, Bank staff estimates for 1974, 1975, 1976, 1977, and 1978.
b/ Trend growth rate is not significant; domestic savings were negative in 1973. 1974 and 1975.
c/  At current prices.
d/  IMP, Bank staff estimates.
e/   Excluding capital expenditures financed out of foreign aid which do not figure in the budget.
f/ External official budget grants.
Data from Malian Central Bank except as noted; end of period.
hi/  Excluding MP 14 billion credit to OPAM consolidated in 1977.
Bank estimates.
Not applicable.



ANNEX I
- 22 -                                   Page 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                        MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-78)
1?7,    1976      1977     1978      1979                          US$ Min.i/    %
(US$ million)
Merchandise Exports FOB I     71.9    94.4    124.6      94.2    117.8   Cotton and products        50.3      52
Import of Goods FOB          131.3   111.3    114.4    168.0    192.5   Live Stock and products 15.4          16
Net Imports NFS               84.4    63.0      68.3     91.5    111.2   Groundnuts and Products 13.7         14
Merchandise Imports c.i.f.  175.9   154.2    158.7    228.2    270.6   Fish (dried and smoked)  1.9            2
All other Goods          15.0      16
Food                          44.1    25.1      21.0     48.3      38.8   Total Recorded Exports  96.3    100
(Cereals)                    (14.0)   (..)   (,.)        27.2       6.9   Unrecorded Exports2/    10.1
Petroleum Products            23.3    22.0      28.5     37.7      57.2
Other Merchandise            108.5   107.1    109.3    120.0    167.7   Total Merchandise
Resource gap      3/        -113.6   -65.3    -33.3   -166.4   -186.6            Exports           106.4
Investment Income Payment
(net)                    -21.7   -16.5    -19.8    -13.3    -18.7   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1979
Net Private Transfers 4/    19.6    15.9        20.3     24.4      38.6                                          US$ Min.
Net Official Transfers        82.1    35.8      70.4     64.7    104.5   Public Debt, Disbursed and
Official Longterm             22.2    36.4      47.7     72.0      72.9       Outstanding                            538.8
Capital (net)                                                          Public Debt, Undisbursed       5/          256.0
SDR Allocation                 -       -         -        -         -     Total Public Debt Outstanding-             794.8
Use of IMF Oil Facility        1.2     4.8       -        -         -                                   -
Errors and Omissions (netj   -3.7      -        17.7    -20.2      32.8   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979 -_ %
Change in Reserves                                                                                                     8.5
(increase -)             60.7    33.1    -13.0    -23.3       25.1   Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed
Net Negative Reserves
(end of period) 7/     -205.1  -215.2   -199.9   -223.3   -251.0   IBRD/IDA LENDING, DECEMBER 31, 1979
IBRD     IDA
(Million US$)
Outstanding and Disbursed       -       81.5
Undisbursed                     -       69.8
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed -       151.3
RATE OF EXCHANGE 8/
1972:  US$1  =    MF 504.42      SDR - MF 547.65
1973:  US$1  -    MF 445.40                530.97
1974:  US$1  -    MF 480.99                578.46
1975:  US$1       M MF 428.64              520.43
1976:  US$1  -    MF 477.96                561.81
1977:  US$1  =    MF 491.34                573.65
1978:  US$1       MF 451.28                565.17
1979:  US$1       MF 402.00                544.00
1/   Excluding unrecorded trade.
2/   Livestock, fish foodgrains (estimated).
3/   Including unrecorded trade.
4/   Includes workers' remittances.
5/   Includes US$114.3million principal in arrears; excludes US$1.9 million interest in arrears.
6/   Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
7/  Net foreign assets of the banking system.
8/   Period averages
9/   Current dollars.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
A. Statement of IDA Credits as at January 31, 1981
Credit                                                 Amount       Undisbursed
Number     Year       Borrower           Purpose         IDA   (less cancellations)
…---   US$ million---
Nine  Credits fully disbursed                            52.1
383-MLI    1973       Republic of Mali   Highway
Rehabili-    17.8 /1          1.06
tation
538-NMLI    1975      Republic of Mali   Livestock
Project      13.3             3.73
599-MLI    1976       Republic of Mali   Third
Highway      10.0             1.73
669-MLI    1976       Republic of Mali   Mali-Sud
Agricul-
tural        15.5            8.12
713-MLI    1977       Republic of Mali   Railway III  10.5              5.61
733-MLI    1977       Republic of Mali   Education II 10.0              4.79
753-MLI    1977       Republic of Mali   Mopti Rice
II           15.0            4.49
854-MLI    1978       Republic of Mali   Technical
Assistance    4.5             1.12
883-MLI    1979       Republic of Mali   Forestry        4.5            4.22
943-MLI    1979       Republic of Mali   Urban Devel-
opment       12.0            10.63
986-MLI    1980       Republic of Mali   Industrial
Sector
Development   8.0             7.54
1104-MLI   1981       Republic of Mali   Road Mainte-
nance           -  /2           -
173.2           53.04
of which has been repaid        0.5
Total now held by IDA*                                 172.7
Total undisbursed                                                      53.04
*    Prior to exchange adjustment.
/1   Includes a Supplementary Credit of $8.3 million made in 1975.
/2   SDR 13.4 million. The Credit was signed March 11, 1981, and is not yet
effective.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.  Statement of IFC Investment as of January 31, 1981
Loan                                                   Amount       Undisbursed
Number     Year       Borrower            Purpose       of Loan (less cancellations)
---------US$ million-------
403-MLI    1978       Sada Diallo         Bleach and
Plastic
Products        0.6             0.0
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Credit 383-MLI       Second Highway Project.  US$9.5 million Credit of May 23,
1973 (as amended on June 12, 1975); Effective Date:
September 12, 1973; Closing Date: July 15, 1977 extended
to December 30, 1981.
The Project consisted of (a) reconstruction of the Faladie-Segou
(222 km) and Bamako-Bougouni (160 km) roads; (b) procurement of highway equip-
ment; (c) technical assistance to DPW; (d) preinvestment studies for the
Bamako-Kolokani road; and (e) a study of the trucking industry. Because of
higher bids than estimated at appraisal, USAID could not finance the recon-
struction of the Bamako-Bougouni road and it was excluded from the project.
However, USAID financed the reconstruction of a bridge and the purchase of
road equipment and spare parts. All project components have been completed.
Credit 538-MLI       Livestock Project.  US$13.3 million Credit of
April 11, 1975; Effective Date: July 24, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project consists of (a) introduction livestock extension services
and grazing control scheme in three selected areas (b) provision for animal
health services, (c) construction of 50 ponds and 70 wells, (d) construction
of one slaughter house (e) provision for five livestock markets, (f) develop-
ment of pasture trial station (g) implementation of a training and functional
literacy program and (h) preparation of a follow-up project. Although most
components were successfully executed, there was no progress on the more
innovative aspects, i.e. those elements aimed at establishing the rational use
of land and water in the livestock area. Therefore remaining funds under the
Credit have been focussed on financing the necessary research and pilot
schemes, and on strengthening sector institutions, in order to lay a sound
basis for an eventual follow-up intervention.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit 599-MLI       Third Highway Project.  US$10.0 million Credit of
January 9, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1976;
Closing Date: December 30, 1981.
The project comprises (a) improvement of feeder roads; (b) execution
of backlog maintenance of paved roads; (c) procurement of spare parts, and
road and workshop equipment; (d) equipment and supply for the training center;
and (e) technical assistance and consulting services for (i) the training
center; (ii) a transport plan study, and (iii) the updated engineering for the
Bamako-Bougouni road (160 km). Construction of feeder roads and the backlog
maintenance program is behind schedule due to low output of the force account
brigades. Two major problems which plague the project resulted from poor
management of the Equipment Service and insufficient road maintenance funds.
Credit funds allocated for spare parts were increased and technical assistance
added for the Equipment Service. Improved maintenance funding is being
stressed under the recently approved Road Maintenance Project (Cr. 1104-MLI).
Credit 669-MLI       Mali-Sud Agricultural Project.  US$15.5 million Credit
of December 23, 1976; Effective Date: September 13, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of (a) expansion of agricultural production in
the project area: cotton, kenaf, maize and rice; (b) studies; (c) applied
research; (d) development of livestock; and (e) strengthening of public health
services. Project activities are progressing satisfactorily and have been
extended to millet and sorghum. Except for rice, production is beyond apprai-
sal estimates. Village Mutual Guarantee Groups and a blacksmith network are
being developed beyond expectations.
Credit 713-MLI       Third Railway Project.  US$10.5 million Credit of
June 10, 1977; Effective Date: November 22, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Implementation of the bridge rehabilitation and repair program,
the project's main component, was finally set in motion in December 1979.
The remaining small bridges, which had to be excluded from the project as
the bid price exceeded the anticipated cost, will be financed with an
EEC Special Action Credit for US$10 million. Mali Railways (CFM) main
capacity and operational constraint continues to be the low availability of
locomotives. This had thwarted efforts to increase CFM's utilization of
imports from Dakar, where high stocks of Mali-bound products accumulated at
the port awaiting transport to Bamako. The shortage of locomotive power
was worsened by a collision in December 1979, leaving a gap which can only
be filled by augmenting the locomotive fleet. This is envisaged with funds
available under the EEC Special Action Credit.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit 733-MLI       Second Education Project.  US$10.0 million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: January 30, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Physical implementation is about 24 months behind schedule. Govern-
ment financial constraints may lead to a need to reconsider the financing and
scope of the project. Construction of junior agricultural technician training
centers is almost completed, and a curriculum development team is expected to
commence operation in the latter part of 1980. The functional literacy program
is proceeding satisfactorily. Construction of practical facilities for three
experimental rural secondary schools is proceeding, but implementation of new
curricula awaits high level policy decisions. Construction of the management
and livestock schools has not started.
Credit 753-MLI       Mopti Rice II Project.  US$15.0 million Credit of
December 8, 1977; Effective Date: May 15, 1978;
Closing Date: November 30, 1983.
The project consists of construction of new polders (8,000 ha) and
consolidation and improvement of existing polders (26,200 ha) for rice culti-
vation under controlled flooding. Main components are civil works; deep
ploughing; building; farm machinery and civil works maintenance; agricultural
credit; applied agricultural research; technical assistance for ORM and adult
literacy program. The project also provides assistance to the Study Bureau of
the Genie Rural. In general, the project is progressing satisfactorily;
however, some delays occurred in earthmoving works, deep ploughing, buildings,
and hydraulic structure implementation. Due to arrangements made at the end of
1979, it is expected that the implementation schedule would meet the appraisal
estimates in 1980.
Credit 854-MLI       Office du Niger - Technical Assistance/Engineering
Project. US$4.5 million Credit of Octcber 30,
1978; Effective Date: January 31, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
The project was designed to prepare (a) an infrastructure rehabilita-
tion program, (b) a pilot program of on-farm works (1,500 ha), and (c) urgent
spot repairs of the irrigation infrastructure. The technical assistance
project consists of (1) engineering services to prepare plans required for the
appraisal of an infrastructure rehabilitation program, (2) training of irriga-
tion construction personnel, (3) audit, (4) livestock studies, (5) research
and (6) a socio-economic study of the settler population. Except for the
KOGONI rice research station equipment, all project components are underway
and proceeding at a satisfactory pace. Due to initial problems, the project
has fallen about 6 months behind schedule, but some delays can be made up
within the remaining months of the project.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit 883-MLI       Forestry Project.  US$4.5 million Credit cf May 25,
1979; Effective Date: May 27, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
A five year program to increase fuelwood and building pole supplies
would establish 3,400 ha of industrial rainfed tree plantations near Bamako
and on a trial basis, 60 ha of rainfed and 70 ha of partially irrigated
plantations near Mopti; apply modern forest management techniques on 1,200 ha
of natural forest; establish three rural forestry nurseries and rehabilitate a
fourth, and carry out studies of more efficient wood use and ways to involve
local population in rural forest activities. Technical experts services
would supplement the staff of the Forestry Department of the Ministry of Rural
Development to assist with the implementation of the forestry program.
Credit 943-MLI       Urban Development Project.  US$12.0 million Credit of
November 7, 1979; Effective Date: June 3, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project will assist Government in providing affordable urban
services to low income urban residents. For the capital city of Bamako, the
project provides shelter, services and related community facilities for about
44,000 low income residents; improves health and sanitary conditions; and
carries out an investment study. In addition, new institutions will be
created and outside expertise utilized to strengthen and develop the urban
setor. Market facilities and financial assistance for the informal sector and
promotion of local building materials would aid local entrepreneurs.   The
secondary centers of Mopti, Kayes and Gao will receive essential water and
sanitation services.
Credit 986-MLI       Industrial Sector Development Project.  US$8.0 Million
Credit of May 23, 1980. Effective Date: September 26,
1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project consists of support to the private industrial and
traditional sector, including a US$3.5 million line of credit and a comprehen-
sive institution building program; and the rehabilitation and expansion of
Union Laitiere de Bamako, Mali-s sole producer of pasteurized milk products.
Credit 1104-MLI      Road Maintenance Project.  SDR 13.4 million. Credit of
March 11, 1981. Effective Date: June 10, 1981 (anticipated)
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 15 months
(b) Project prepared by: consultants
(c) Identification mission: March 1979
(d) Appraisal mission: July 1980
(e)  Negotiations:         March 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: July 1981
Section II. Special IDA Implementation Action: None
Section III. Special Conditions
(a) The Government would exchange views with IDA before June 30, 1982
on the recommendations of the pricing study with a view to agreeing
on a plan of action for the pricing of petroleum products (para.
32);
(b) A condition for disbursing the funds relating to the second phase
of the assessment of the Agamor oil shale deposits would be for
the first phase to conclude to the satisfaction of the Government
and the Association that the second phase is warranted (para. 46);
(c) The Government would consult annually with IDA on the staffing of
DNGM/HD (para. 51);
(d) The Government would reserve proceeds from the sale of reports and
data collected during project implementation for further investment
in the hydrocarbon sector (para 52); and
(e)  DNGM and DHE would keep separate accounts.  These accounts would
be audited by auditors acceptable to IDA (para. 55).



IBRD 15308
18*  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   I   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                     THE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCTOBER1980
50  100105  200                                 ~         ~ ~~~~~~~~~~T INTAQUDNIBBASN
0  1~~~  0~~   ~~           INOCUE   BASIN                                                                                                      WEST   A RE T OUDE ICBASI
Md.                                                                   .    ..ConCesion-
'~~~~ ii~~~~~~W    O~~~~~~~~O0~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~ c o  N                                                                                           -    J   ~~~~~~~~~~TEXACO
or r  p.  A                                                                                                                                 EZZJ  ONRA Istill oalidl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SE  (fil-1d
b..5~mrr~rdorai,n                                                                                                                                                                               DlOillobleotucue
Tertiary
Cret-ceoss
f,                                                                                                                               EE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~Carbonifero-
*Ouosa  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~            4    ~      ~     ~    ~     iUpper lnfro-ambr
6          DEPRE55ION~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERESO                                                                            mgLoe nfaamra
A j~~~~~~  ~bolag1 BI                                                                                ~~-jAOA                                         N      Folds
0---Oeth-1s
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - ~ ~   ~        ~        ~       ~       -      a-00-----  onoos n  etr
iR- 
Ir~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
GAB     4,n-                                                                                                                                                                                . ....
EN,EGAI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PE~                                                                                  OOT 
SYN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~toioos
/~~~~~~~~~



