CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1134 MLI
0)P
CJj3
Development Credit Agreement
(Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALI
and
INTERIATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 29, 1981
xp


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1134 MLI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT   1.
AGREEMENT, dated April 29, 1981, between the REPUBLIC,OF MALI
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(9) by letters addressed by the Association to the Minister
of Finance and Commerce of the Borrower dated June 11, 1979 and
December 5, 1980 the Association granted an advance to the Bor-
rower in the aggregate amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000)'
for the preparation of the Project;
(C) pursuant to the terms and conditions of said advance,
the amount thereof is to be refunded to the Association but of the
proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable. to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following ieanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Ministry" means the Borrower's Ministry responsible for
Industrial Development;
(b) "Directorate" means the Ministry's National Directorate
of Geology and Mines; and
(c) "Energy" means the Ministry's- Directorate of Hydraulics
and Energy.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower;
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to three million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 3,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the\Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the advance referred to in paragraph (B) of the Preamble
to this Agreement withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to
pay any unpaid charges thereon.   Any unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of such advance shall be automatically cancelled
as of the same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of office, laboratory and storage equipment
under Part A.4 of the-P-roject shall be carriod out under the
competitive bidding procedures of the Borrower.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall obe June 30, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
0


﻿-3-
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower"of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The)Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of' three-fourths o one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to,time.         o
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
D                                        riCl
Section 2.07. The Borrowr shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Februapy
15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1991, and,ending February
15, 2031, each installment to and including the installment
payable on February 15, 2001, to-be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment othere-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Ministry with due diligence and, efficiency and in
Conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose'.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ such consultants and other
experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association, as shall
be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
0C


﻿04
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
.thereto ,,in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records andeprocedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the'Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to kthe
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits  W be derived from it
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or. such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
-Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performanceoby the Borrower and the
Association of their respective oblIgations. under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land or
rights in respect o;f land as shall be required for carrying out
the Project.


﻿-5-
Section 3.06. Prior to the end of each calendar year until
completion of the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, a report on the staffing of,the Hydrocarbon Division
of the Directorate.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure that the proceeds of
any sale of reports, studies or other data produced under the
Project be us9d exclusively to promote exploration for hydro-
carbons.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
9ection 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with a
considstently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments) or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and for the purpose
shall cause the Directorate and Energy to maintain accounts in
respect of the Project separate from their other operations.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Directorate and Energy a
to: (i) have the separate accounts for the Project for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of their financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the reports of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning such accounts
and financial statements of and the audits thereof as the Associa-
tion shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. Prior to June 30, 1982 the Borrower shall
exchange views with the Association on the results and recom-
mendations of the study of the system of supply and of pricing of
petroleum products included in Part B of the Project, with a view
to agreeing on a plan of action based thereon.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date July 28, 1981, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower;-Addresses
Section 6.01, The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of t,e General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The follo,ing .addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances et    Commerce
Bamako
Republic of Mali
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIFINANCES                        972-559
Bamako
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-7-
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By /s/ Macky Koreissi Tall
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATIC-7
By /s/ Bilsel Alisbah
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the,,
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Consultants'eservices,        1,400,000       100%  of foreign
Parts A and B of the                         expenditures or,
Project; audits                              if furnished
locally, 90% of
local expendi-
tures
(2) Equipment                       300,000       100% of foreign
expenditures or,
if purchased
domestically,
65% of local
expenditures
(3) Training, Parts A               200,000       100% of foreign
and B of the                                 expenditures
Project
(4) Refunding of                    825,000       Amount due
Advance for                                  under Section
Project                                      2.02 (b) at
Preparation                                  Effective Date
(5) Unall a                         375,000
TOTAL         3,100,000


﻿-9;
2.   If the amount allocated under Category 4 is excessive or
insufficient for the purposes of Section 2.02 (b), the necessary
adjustment shall be made by reallocation to or from Category 5.
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in .com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount 'of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of_the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to Ghe date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$200,000 may be made in respect of Categories 1 and 3 on account
of payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
January 1, 1981.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the


﻿- 10 -
opinion of the Association are,not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the dishIrsement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures" set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall, be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Associatic'ineay, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the= Project is to assist in evaluating the
hydrocarbon potential of the Taoudeni Basin and to strengthen the
institutional capabilities of the Ministry. The Project includes
the following:
0
Part A:   Promotion and Strengthening of Organization
1.   Promotion of the Taoudeni Basin to oil, companies;
negotiation of exploration agreements;
2.   Monitoring the activities of operating companies and
integrating collected data into the Directorate's   -terpretation
of the Basin;
3. -Training of geophysicists and geologists through fellow-
ships outside of Mali; and ;
4.   Establishing a library, a laboratory and storage facili-
ties for well samples and documents, and the procurement of
equipment for the purpose.
Part B:   Energy Studies
1.  Reviewing the system of supply and the pricing structure
of petroleam products and defining future po3icies related thereto;
D07
2.   Reviewing the energy sector, identifying issues and
defining a future plan of action; and
3.   Assessing institutional, training and technical needs to
strengthen the administrative and project preparation capabilities
of the Ministry.
4.   Evaluating the potential of the Agamor oil shale
deposits, including a review of existing data, collection of
samples aind, laboratory testing.  Tf deemed warranted ad techno-
logically feasible by the Borrower and the Association on the


﻿- 12 -
basis of the results of the foregoing, carrying out an estimate of
the reserves and preparing a preliminary feasibility study.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.
oC


