Document Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Report No. 4201-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 20.6 MILLION
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
December 17, 1985
hi doumit baw a regieud # illo  mad ma be mwd by recplmts dly in the peeforwnee of
did§r * id    . Is cotlbbeo_eb  y  ot ohrwse be dbdosed witho Wedd Bank mthorizdon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The external value of the Bangladesh Taka Ctk) is fixed in relation to a
basket of reference currencies, with the US dollar serving as intervention
currency. On November 25, 1985, the official exchange rate was set at
Tk 30.44 buying and Tk 30.59 selling per US dollar.
FISCAL YEAR
July I to June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I cubic meter (W3)              -   35.25 cubic feet
1 hectare (ha)                  -   2.47 acres
1 metric ton (ton)               -   1,000 kilograms - 0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)                     -   1.09 yards
I kilogram (kg)                 -   2.20 pounds
1 kilometer (km)                -   0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (kmZ2)       -   0.386 square mile
1 square meter Cm2)             -   10-75 square feet
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP         -  Annual Development Program
BB          -  Bangladesh Bank
BFDC        -  Bangladesh Fisheries Development Corporation
BUDB        -  Bangladesh Water Development Board
DFTC        -  Demonstration Farm and Training Center
DOF.-       -  Department of Fisheries
ERR         -  Economic Rate of Return
FAO         -  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FD          -  Fisheries Division of Ministry of
Fisheries and Livestock
FRR         -  Financial Rate of Return
CDP         -  Gross Domestic Product
ICB         -  International Competitive Bidding
LCB         -  Local Competitive Bidding
0&N         -  Operation and Maintenance
PCI         -  Participating Credit Institution
FlU         -  Project Implementation Unit
PP          -  Project Proforma
SCES        -  Shrimp Culture Extension Service
SWIP        -  Salt Water Intake Permit
UNDP        -  United Nations DeveLopment Programme
GLOSSARY
AquacuLture         -  Commercial cultivation of aquatic products.
Aus                 -  Rice pLanted during February/March and harvested in
June/July.
Culture-based       -  Fisheries in which harvesting is concentrated on fish
Fisheries            stocks which have been built up througb scocking of
water bodies with young fish. The fishing grounds.
biological productivitv, fish stocks, and fishing
activities involved in this type of fisheries are, to
some extent. manageable and controllable.
District             - Administrative unit headed bv a Deputv Commissioner
and comprised of a number of upazilas.
Division             - Administrative unit beaded bv a Commissioner and com-
prised of a number of Districts.
Juvenile Shrimp      - Shrimp grown co ?ost-larval stage.
Folder               - A tract of Low land reclaimed from a bodv of vater.
Upazila              - Lowest level of adwinistratLve unit (for=alLy called
Thana).



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:                SDR 20.6 million (US$22.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard
Relending Terms:       The Government of Bangladesh would onlend US$6.6 mil-
lion of the proceeds of the credit to the Bangladesh
Bank (BB) for a period of 12 years, including a grace
period of four years, at an interest rate of not less
than 6% per annum, 2.5Z of which would be retained by
BB as a fee for bearing the foreign exchange risk. BB
would onlend the proceeds of the credit to the
Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs), for a period
of eight years at an interest rate of not less than
8.5% per annum. The PCIs would onlend the proceeds of
the credit to shrimp farmers, traders, and hatchery
operators for a period of five to seven years at an
interest rate of not less than 16% per annum.
Project Descripcion:  The project would increase the production of shrimp,
thereby improving export earnings and income and nutri-
tion in rural areas. The project would also improve
the fisheries extension services and policies related
to shrimp culture. Project supported activities would
include: construction of embankments, water control
structures, and shrimp hatcheries; supply of medium-
term credit to shrimp farmers, traders, and hatchery
operators for on-farm improvements, marketing
equipment, and hatchery investments; financing of
buildings, equipment, incremental staff salaries, and
operating costs of the Department of Fisheries and the
Bangladesh Water Development Board; and technical
assistance and training.
Risks:                 The major risks faced by the project are a substantial
decline in world market prices for shrimp or a failure
to achieve envisaged shrimp yields. The project would
be able to absorb a decline in jenefits of up to 432
before it would become unacceptable, a percentage
higher than any world price fluctuation for shrimp
since 1974. Moreover, prices for the type of shrimp
produced within the project area are expected to
increase slightly. The technology for intensified
shrimp cultivation is simple and well-developed and the
risk of not attaining che projected increases in yields
is small.
I is doument has a restricted distribution and may be used by rcipients only in the performance of |
their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be diosed without World Bank authorinzation.



- il -
Estimated Project Costs: /
Local      Foreign       Total
-  - -( (US$ million)
Infrastructure                                  9.0         1.3          10.3
Credit                                          6.6         1.7           8.3
Institutional Support                           3.8         0.9           4.7
Technical Assistance & Training                 1.1         1.8           2.9
Total Base Costs                    20.5        5.7          26.2
Physical Contingencies                          2.2         0.6           2.8
Price Contingencies                             4.9         2.8           7.7
Total Project Costs                 27.6        9.1          36.7/a
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign       Total
(USS million)
IDA                                            15.8         6.2        22.0
Government                                      4.5          -           4.5
UNDP                                            1.6         2.9         4.5
BB                                              1.4          -           1.4
PCIs                                            2.4          -           2.4
Investors                                       1.9          -           1.9
Total                               27.6        9.1         36.7/a
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year                 1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
--(US$ million)--
Annual                      1.6   2.4      5.7    4.8    4.0    2.8    0.7
Cumulative                  1.6   4.0      9.7   14.5   18.5   21.3   22.0
Economic Rate of Return: 27Z
Appraisal Report:          Bangladesh:
Report No. 5561-BD dated November 27, 1985.
Map: IBRD No. 18698
/a Including US$5.1 million equivalent of taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 20.6 mil-
lion (US$22.0 million equivalent) on standard lIlA terms to heLp finance a
Shrimp Culture Project. The Government of Bangladesh would onlend US$6.6
million of the proceeds of the credit to the Bangladesh Bank (BB) for a
period of 12 years, including a grace period of four years, at an interest
rate of not less than 62 per annum, 2.5% of which would be retained by BB as
a fee for bearing the foreign exchange risk. BB would onlend the proceeds of
the credit to the Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs), for a period of
eight years at an interest rate of not less than 8.5Z per annum. The PCIs
would onlend the proceeds of the credit to shrimp farmers, traders, and
hatchery operators for a period of five to seven years at an interest rate of
not less than 16% per annum. Parallel financing of US$4.5 million in the
form of a grant would be provided by the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh: Economic and Social
Development Prospects," (Report No. 5409-BD, dated April 12, 1985) has been
distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      Bangladesh, which became independent in 1972 under very difficult
circumstances, is a country with a very high population density and
widespread poverty (annual income per capita is about US$130). The economy,
dominated by agriculture, remains highly vulnerable to disruption by both
natural and external factors. Although considerable progress has been made
in terms of increased flood control, and extending the availability of
irrigation and other inputs, foodgrain production remains heavily dependent
on weather conditions and falls short of domestic requirements. To meet
minimum needs, the Government has to import foodgrains financed by aid or
from its own resources. The uncertainties of foodgrain availability also
make it necessary to maintain public foodgrain stocks, the financing of which
adds to the problems of fiscal management.
4.      The economy is also characterized by low savings, which reflect the
low level of incomes, and by a large structural external payments gap.
Domestic savings account for only a negligible part of investment (which has
averaged about 16% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in recent years). Export



-2-
earnings cover less than 30Z of the import bill, with raw jute and jute goods
accounting for about 6OZ of merchandise exports. The resource gap of about
15X of GDP is financed by workers' remittances, which rose rapidly to more
than 5X of GDP in FY83, before declining significantly during the past two
years, and by foreign assistance equivalent to about 1OZ of GDP per annum.
The capacity to finance imports can be severly affected by external factors
that are beyond the control of the Government; the effect of such adverse
factors on the economy is amplified by the heavy dependence of budgetary
revenues on import duties and sales taxes, which together account for almost
60% of tax revenues.
Recent Economic Developments
5.      In the late 1970s, Bangladesh enjoyed a period of political stability
and economic consolidation and was able to plan for longer-term development.
GDP growth of nearly 6% per annum from FY75 to FY80 was accompanied by rising
public investment, financed by a substantial real increase in aid
disbursements. A combination of adverse domestic and external events after
FY80 disrupted the momentum of development. Between FY80 and FY82, the
external terms of trade for Bangladesh fell by 30%, due to declining prices
for jute and jute products, as well as to increases in import prices.
External aid flows, which had been rising steadily up to FY80, declined in
FY81 and in FY82 barely recovered to their FY80 level. Foreign exchange
reserves declined to about US$120 million (equivalent to about two weeks'
imports) by end-FY82. The deterioration in the terms of trLde and stagnation
of aid receipts in real terms had an adverse impact on public finances and
forced the Government to impose severe cuts in domestic public investment in
FY81 and FY82. At the same time, the rate of growth in GDP decreased from
about 6% in FY81 to 1.4% in FY82, largely due to a decline in food crop
production following a prolonged drought during FY82.
6.      In response to these adverse developments, the Government took a
series of measures designed to stabilize the economy. In the FY83 Budget,
growth of public expenditure was tightly restrained, new tax measures were
introduced and a series of pricing adjustments were made to reduce subsidies
and improve the financial performance of public sector enterprises and
utilities. Taken together, the tax, pricing, and subsidy-reduction measures
amounted to an impressive 2.3% of GDP. In FY83, the Government also
announced its New Industrial Policy designed to improve the efficiency of
public sector enterprises and provide an improved policy environment for the
private sector. More than 100 public sector enterprises were subsequently
denationalized, investment sanctioning procedures were streamlined, and many
industries were freed from investment sanctions. Imports were liberalized by
increasing access to imports through a secondary exchange market and by
eliminating some quantitative restrictions.\ By the end of FY83, the balance
of payments position had improved considerably, due to a recovery in the
terms of trade, an upsurge in workers' remittances, higher aid inflows, as
well as increasing exports stimulated by a substantial depreciation in the
exchange rate. However, the reduction in the current account deficit, which
fell from 14.5% to 10.4% of GDP, was also due to the depressed level of



-3-
imports resulting from a continued slow rate of GDP growth, which recovered
to only about 3% in FY83. While more favorable weather conditions and
increased inputs led to a 3-4Z growth in agriculture, most of the non-
agricultural sectors remained depressed; value added in the manufacturing
sector actually declined by 1-2Z.
7.      Economic performance in FY84 and FY85 was seriously affected by a
series of damaging floods during 1984 whose intensity was comparabLe to the
devastating floods of 1974. Successive rice crops were hit causing net
foodgrain losses of over 0.5 milLion tons. Due to investments in more dis-
persed food storage facilities, the improved efficiency of the Public Food
Distribution System, and the Government's large-scale foodgrain procurements
abroad, a famine was averted. Even though the immediate food crisis has
passed, the impact of the floods is reflected in lower agricultural growth
rates of around 2.4% in FY84 and 3.3% in FY85. The cyclone and tidal bore
disaster in May 1985 caused extensive loss of life and property along the
southern coast and islands of Bangladesh; the effect on overall food produc-
tion was, however, limited, although loss of agricultural livestock in the
affected areas was considerable.
8.      In the nonagricultural sectors there was in FY84 a slow, but
gradually accelerating, recovery. Industry, in particular, rebounded sharply
from the weak performance of the preceding year. This was due to a combina-
tion of factors including further liberalization and privatization measures
following the promulgation of the Government's New Industrial Policy; easier
access to imports during a period of less restricted foreign exchange
resources; increased non-traditional industrial exports (especially ready-
made garments); and increased demand generated by a sharp expansion of
private credit (paragraph 11). Therefore, despite the severe setbacks in
agriculture, the improvements in industry still led to a GDP growth of around
3.5Z for FY84. In FY85, preliminary Government estimates would suggest that
industrial growth was only about 32; on the other hand, the recovery of
growth in the trade and transport sectors helped maintain the rate of growth
in F85 at about the FY84 level.
9.      Following the major domestic revenue effort made in FY83, the
Government sought to consolidate that effort in its FY84 and FY85 Budgets,
rather than to embark on major new initiatives. Further modest tax and
pricing adjustments were made to increase recurrent revenues, but total
revenues for FY84 were well short of the budget target as dutiable imports
and aid disbursements fell considerably below expectation. In FY85, tax
revenues benefitted from higher imports. A substantial budget deficit was
avoided in FY84 by a significant shortfall in development expenditures com-
pared with the budget estimate; a similar shortfall in the Annual Development
Program expenditures has occurred during FY85. Such shortfalls arise partly
from overly ambitious development expenditure targets, but are also
attributable to lower than expected disbursements of project aid as a result
of implementation constraints.
10.     In its FY86 budget, the Government took further domestic resource
mobilization measures which, together with additional revenue measures intro-
duced later in the fiscal year, are estimated to yield in excess of Tk 2



-4-
billion in FY86, equivalent to 0.4Z of GDP. As a result, the budget revenue
to GDP ratio is projected to rise from 8.9Z in FY85 to 9.5Z in FY86. In
addition, the Government has enacted a series of significant pricing
adjustments, including increases in natural gas prices averaging 2OZ, in the
prices of fcrtilizer averaging 9Z, and in power rates averaging 18X. The
Government also announced its intention to reduce food subsidies by Tk 600
million in FY86.
11.     During 1983 and 1984, the Government permitted a rapid expansion in
domestic credit in an effort co stimulate economic recovery and, by means of
liberaL rural credit, to mitigate the effects of the 1984 floods. Domestic
prices have, nevertheless, remained relatively stable, with inflation rates
about 12% in FY84 and FY85. In January 1985, the Government took a series of
strong measures to limit the growth of liquidity, including increases in
interest rates and the imposition of ceilings on the growth of domestic
credit. These measures were instrumental in moderating significantly the
growth of credit during the second half of FY85. From December 1984 to
June 1985, the annual rate of private credit expansion slowed to 12% compared
with 40% in FY85 and 60% in FY84. The Bangladesh Bank has successfully
continued to restrain domestic credit expansion in FY86.
12.     The balance of payments and foreign exchange reserves position
improved during FY84. Export earnings rose by 20%, due to higher interna-
tional prices for jute, jute products, and tea, as well as a major boost in
non-traditional exports, while imports remained close to the FY83 level since
economic recovery was slower than anticipated and aid-financed imports were
depressed by delays in project implementation. Even though workers' remit-
tances began to decline in the second half of the fiscal year, gross foreign
exchange reserves in March 1984 reached a peak of US$558 millionp equivalent
to about 3 months' imports. However, during FY85 there was a deterioration
in the balance of payments. Part of the growing pressure on the balance of
payments arose from the additional foodgrain imports necessitated by the
severe 1984 floods. Non-food imports also increased significantLy, partly as
a result of the continued recovery in the non-agricultural sectors stimulated
by the rapid expansion in domestic credit. Workers' remittances also
declined further and although exports increased somewhat over FY84 levels,
external reserves fell by about US$144 million in FY85. The decLine in
reserves would have been even more marked had not a substantial portion
(about US$190 million) of foodgrain imports been purchased on credit.
13.     Bangladesh's balance of payments will be under very considerable
pressure during FY86 and FY87. Merchandise export earnings are unlikely to
exceed significantly the FY85 level in nominal terms. Even significant gains
in non-traditional exports, in particular garments, as well as in leather are
estimated to no more than offset the expected losses in earnings from export
of jute and jute products due to the sharp decline in international price.
The inflow of workers' remittances is also unlikely to recover fully to their
former levels, although some increase is expected in FY85 over FY84 levels.
The situation will be further aggravated by the substantial loan repayments
falling due during FY86 and FY87 for recent purchases of foodgrain imports on



-5-
deferred terms. Bangladesh also has substantial repurchase obligations due
to the IMF in FY86 and FY87. The critical state of the country's exterrnal
payments situation is demonstrated by the further decline of official gross
reserves during the first quarter of FY86 to only $265 million, or about 1.3
months of import requirements, as of end-September 1985.
14.     In view of the deterioration in the balance of payments situation in
FY85 and the unfavorable outlook for the next two years, the Government has
entered into a Standby Arrangement with the IMF in an amount of SDRs 180
million covering the period December 1985 to June 1987. The stabilization
program to be supported by the IMF Standby Arrangement focussed on mobilizing
additional domestic resources, restrained monetary and credit policies and,
through the pursuit of flexible exchange rate policies, strengthening the
competitiveness of the traded goods sector.
External Debt
15.     Since most of Bangladesh's borrowings have been on highly conces-
sional terms, servicing external medium and long-term debts has not been a
major problem. Nonetheless, the burden of servicing this concessional debt
is rising steadily as debts incurred in the first years after independence
are increasingly falling due for repayment.  Total service payments on exter-
nal public medium and long-term debt are expected to rise from about 13% of
export earnings (goods, services, and workers' remittances) in FY84 to 14X in
FY85 and a peak of 18% in FY87, gradually declining thereafter. However,
when obligations to the IMF are included, the debt service ratio in FY85 was
approximately 24%, and is estimated to stay at about this level during FY86
and FY87. The debt service ratio is forecast to decline thereafter, Ls food
debts are repaid, to about 17Z by FY90. The Bank Group's share of
Bangladesh's debt servicing obligations will remain modest over this period,
rising from 8.5% in FY84 to 8.9% in FY86. The Bank Group's share of total
debt outstanding and disbursed is projected to increase from about 30Z in
FY84 to about 35Z in FY86.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
16.     The Government is completing preparation of its Third Five Year
Development Plan which will cover the period FY86-90. In the meantime, the
Government's development strategy continues to be largely based on the
priorities outlined in the Second Five Year Plan (FY81-85). The priority
development objectives are: (a) reducing population growth from the present
rate of 2.6% per annum; (b) achieving foodgrain self-sufficiency;
(c) eliminating mass illiteracy; and (d) accelerating domestic energy
development. With appropriate producer incentives, adequate resources to
provide needed inputs to farmers, and an expanded role for the private sector
in the provision and servicing of modern agricultural implements and inputs,
foodgrain self-sufficiency could be achieved by the end of the decade. Given
Bangladesh's high illiteracy rate (74%), che emphasis on primary education is
weLl founded; under the Second Plan the objective of achieving universal
primary education was adopted. Prospects for achieving the objectives of



-6-
educational expansion and improved foodgrain availability would be improved
by success in reducing the population growth rate; this will require more
determined efforts than hitherto. The Government is taking steps to improve
its family planning and health services at the field level, including
increasing the number of field workers and providing them with more intensive
training and supervision. The Government also intends to expand support to
maternal and child health services.
17.     Early development of the country's energy resources, particularly
natural gas, is very important since petroleum imports at present absorb
about two-thirds of merchandise export earaings. The Government is already
implementing sizable investments to augment the supply of gas to meet growing
demand from the power and fertilizer sectors. The implementation of
appropriate energy conservation measures and the setting of energy prices at
economically efficient Levels will also be critical to the success of the
energy development program.
18.     There is an urgent need to address the growing problems of rural
poverty and unemployment. Fifty percent of the rural population is function-
ally landless, and the employment situation has deteriorated significantly
since the 1970s, with only 70% of new entrants to the labor force finding
gainful employment. Increased foodgrain production alone will not suffice to
resolve the unemployment and income problems, in view of the large projected
growth of the work force. Measures must be taken simultaneously, therefore,
to develop other sectors, such as fisheries, livestock, forestry and non-
foodgrain crops, and to strengthen the industrial sector -- especially rural
small-scale and cottage industries - so that incomes generated in one sub-
sector will generate effective demand for the output of others.
19.     As noted above, the Government's New Industrial Policy has given a
greater role to the private sector in industrial development, increased the
incentives for export industries, and liberalized the import regime.
However, there remains an urgent need to strengthen the development finance
institutions, whose financial structure has been undermined by debt arrears,
and to rationalize industrial incentives. The Government is now examining
the future role of the development finance institutions in the light of
recent consultants' studies. An ongoing program of IDA-financed studies is
expected to lead to a program of action for the rationalization of a broad
range of trade and industrial policies.
20.     In the Third Five Year Development Plan, the Government will need  J
ensure that the size of the future public investment program is set at a
level consistent with a realistic assessment of prospective external and
domestic financial resources. As external assistance will continue to be
severely constrained, there is a clear need for a sustained and intensive
domestic resource mobilization effort to raise tax revenues, increase the
level of cost recovery, reduce subsidies, and improve the financial perfor-
mance of public enterprises. In the medium term, the tax base will have to
be brLadened to reduce its present dependence on import duties, thereby
improving the elasticity of the tax system.



-7-
21.     Realization of the Government's development objectives will also
require significant improvements in development administration. There is
need to strengthen project implementation, streamline administrative
procedures, and improve decision-making processes. Recognizing that local
government bodies can play an effective role in the development effort, the
Government has decided to decentralize a number of plarning and administra-
tive functions to the upgraded Upazila (Sub-District) level. The implementa-
tion and impact uf this policy will need to be closely monitored by the
central authorities.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
22.     Cumulative Bank Group comnitments to Bangladesh total US$3,382.92
million. This figure includes reactivation of eleven credits (US$154.41
million) made to Pakistan before 1971 and a consolidation loan (US$54.90
milLion) and a consolidation credit (US$37.45 million) approved in 1975 to
cover liabilities arising from projects completed prior to independence. In
addition to these, the Bank has approved 90 new credits since Bangladesh
became a member in 1972. In terms of total commitments, approximately 24%
of IDA lending has been for agriculture, irrigation and rural development;
11% for industry; 13% for power and energy; 9% for transportation and
telecommunications; 9Z for education and technical assistance; 2% for urban
infrastructure; 2Z for population control; and 30% for imports program
support. Apart from increased emphasis on energy development, the composi-
tion of IDA lending over the next several years is not expected to change
markedly. On June 18, 1976, Bangladesh became a member of IFC and five
investments have been approved to date.
23.     IDA's country assistance strategy is designed to support the
Gcvernment's priority development objectives set out in the Second Five Year
Plan and summarized in paragraph 16 above. IDA's lending has emphasized
agriculture, with particular importance attached to increasing food produc-
tion through augmenting the supply of essential inputs such as irrigation
equipment, fertilizer, and improved seeds, the development of extension
services, research programs, and rural cooperatives, the provision of
agricultural credit, and the promotion of input and output pricing policies
that allow adequate incentives to farmers to increase production. IDA has
also supported the Government's efforts to encourage greater private sector
participation in the supply and distribution of agricultural inputs. IDA's
lending program will place increasing emphasis on agricultural diversifica-
tion through increased production of fish and forestry products, an activity
supported by this project.
24.     IDA's lending for power and gas investments is designed to expand the
use of natural gas in substitution for imported oil, promote conservation
measures and more efficient energy use, and encourage further gas and oil
exploration. IDA is also financing projects to expand the country's rural



-8-
electrification system and power generation and transmission capabilities.
Recognizing the critical shortages in traditional fuels, IDA is financing
investments in forestry to increase the supply of fuelwood.
25.     In the education sector, IDA's lending strategy focuses on two
areas -- primary education and skills development. Lending for primary
education supports the national goals of achieving universal primary educa-
tion and reducing illiteracy, expanding access to education, and upgrading
quality. Projects for vocational and technicaL education promote the train-
ing of craftsmen, technicians. and engineers.
26.     In order to alleviate the severe economic and social pressures
created by the extremely high population densicy and the continuing popula-
tion increase, IDA, together with other donors, is assisting the Government
in implementing an accelerated family planning program. With Bangladesh's
urban population expected to increase from about 16-18 million in 1985 to
between 35-40 million by the year 2000, future IDA activities will also help
the Government address the problem of providing low-cost shelter and
infrastructure services to the urban poor; IDA is already financing water and
sanitation improvements in Chittagong and Dhaka.
27.     To achieve a higher and sustained level of growth, provide productive
employment for a rapidly growing work force, and improve the country's exter-
nal trade and payments position on a sustained basis, industry will need to
play a more pivotal role in the economy. IDA's lending program seeks to
assist the Government in: (a) increasing efficiency in public sector
enterprises; (b) reforming trade, industrial, and financial policies;
(c) strengthening existing financial institutions; (d) establishing export
development programs; and (e) promoting rural and small-scale industries.
In addition to assistance under program credits (paragraph 29), IDA has
supported projects to increase fertilizer production, rehabilitate the jute
and textile industries, strengthen the development finance institutions, and
promote small-scale industries.
28.     Because of the importance of river transport in this deltaic country,
in the transport sector, IDA has focused on the development of the inland
water transport system. The road network in Bangladesh is extensive, but the
roads are in poor condition and inadequately maintained. IDA's future lend-
ing program will concentrate primarily on maintaining and upgrading existing
roads.
29.     Because of the urgent need for sustained transfer cc substantial
financial resources, the assistance strategy for Bangladesh provides a sig-
nificant proportion of annual lending in the form of program credits. In
addition to providing much-needed foreign exchange and local counterpart
financiaL support, annual program credits have provided a useful vehicle for
addressing a wide range of sectoral and macro-economic issues. Due to
Bangladesh's savings/investment gap, IDA credits for project financing con-
tinue to cover all foreign exchange costs and a significant portion of local
currency expenditures. Given the severe limits on external concessionary



-9-
assistance, IDA has emphasized the need for Government to mobilize more
domestic financial resources and to utilize these resources more efficiently.
IDA is promoting Government policies to set public utility prices at economi-
cally efficient levels, to mobilize domestic financial resources, and to
improve the efficiency of public sector institutions.
30.      Project implementation is hampered not only by a shortage of domes-
tic financial resources, but also by weak development institutions, limited
managerial capacity, and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. IDA, in con-
sultation with other donors, is engaged in a continuing dialogue with the
Government on ways to improve project implementation. In support of broader
institutional reform, IDA is: (a) providing technical assistance for project
preparation and implementation; (b) financing projects to train civil ser-
vants and other managerial and technical personnel; and (c) encouraging the
Government to introduce administrative reforms and improve staff salaries and
incentives. Despite progress in implementing reforms, which include
administrative reorganization and improvements in financial planning and
budgetary procedures, adequate institutional capabilities can be achieved
only over the long term.
31.    IDA chairs the annual Bangladesh Aid Group meeting which provides a
forum for aid donor consultation and IDA's Resident Representative chairs
regularly scheduled donor meetings in Dhaka to exchange views on policy
issues, project implementation, and aid coordination.
PART III - The Agricultural Sector
Introduction
32.     The agriculture sector, including the fisheries subsector, con-
tributes about 50% of GDP and provides about 75Z of empLoyment and exports.
Rice is the country's staple foodgrain and paddy covers 80% of the cropped
area. Cropping intensity is about 140%. Farm holdings are highly
fragmented, investment in agricultural inputs and on-farm development is
limited, and a majority of the rural population lives in dire poverty. Given
the relative scarcity of land, significant increases in production can occur
only through crop diversification and intensification. Government efforts
are directed at developing infrastructure in irrigation, drainage, and flood
control, and strengthening institutions involved in agricultural credit,
input supply, marketing, research, and extension. Over the past several
years, the country has achieved major successes in agricultural development,
which are especially impressive in comparison to the performance of most
other low-income countries. In the past five years, foodgrain production has
accelerated to nearly 4% per year and agriculture value-added to more than 3%
per year, significantly above the rate of population growth. These successes
are directly related to the high priority given to agriculture by the
Government and to the implementation of basically sound policies and
programs.



-10-
33.     Bangladesh is rich in fisheries resources.  Located in the delta of
che Brahmaputra, Ganges, and Meghna rivers, one-fifth to one-third of its
land is flooded by monsoon rains for three to five months of the year (June -
October). Water, soil, and climatic conditions are favorable for inland
fisheries and the flooded, rich agricultural lands provide extensive grounds
for breecUng, feeding, and larval development of fish and shrimp. As a
result, rivers and flood plains are abundant with fish and crustaceans.
Bangladesh also has a 480 kilometer coastline and claims 40,000 square
kilometers of the continental sea shelf that provides marine fish and shrimp.
34.     Bangladesh ranks third in the world, behind China and India. among
inland fish-producing countries. Some 97% of the inland production stems
from traditional small-scale fishing in flood lands, rivers, and lakes; only
about 32 of production is derived from fish and shrimp culture. Fish produc-
tion declined between 1963 and 1976, due to the deterioration of fisheries
resources caused by the construction of flood control works, water pollution
from industry and agriculture, and over-fishing of brood stock. Since 1976,
the production of both inland and marine fisheries has increased and in l98.t
amounted to about 743,000 tons, of which 80Z came from inland fisheries and
20% from marine sources. Fish contributes 80% of the population's non-
vegetable protein intake.
35.     The fisheries subsector contributes about 32 to total GDP and 6% to
agricultural GDP. Employment in fisheries accounts for about 3% of total
employment, but this percentage does not adequately reflect the importance of
fishing as a full or part-time activity for many landless families and as a
source of foreign exchange earnings. Fish exports, which have grown more
than 25% per annum over the past decade and are the country's second most
important export category after jute and jute products, amounted to US$76
million in FY84, 9.7% of total exports earnings. Shrimp constitute 80% of
total fish exports. Bangladesh exports shrimp mainly to Japan and the
countries of the European Community; export volume constitutes less than 3%
of world trade in shrimp.
Shrimp Cultivation
36.     Shrimp trapping with nets, for both subsistence and commercial
purposes, has long been practiced in Bangladesh's rivers and tidal channels
and along its coast. Although this traditional method of catching shrimp
was disrupted during the 1960s by the construction of protective coastal
polders, in recent years increased international demand and higher prices for
shrimp have resulted in extensive development of shrimp cultivation within
polders. Since 1980, the area under shrimp culture has expanded by about 40%
per year and by 1984 about 52,000 hectares (ha) within coastal polders were
being utilized for shrimp farming, 61% of which were in the Khulna area and
36% in the Cox's Bazar area. In 1984, production from these areas was
estim2ted at 3,500 tons of exportable shrimp and 5,200 tons of miscellaneous
small fish and shrimp consumed locally. Shrimp culture accounted for about
19Z of Bangladesh's total shrimp exports, u-th the balance attributable to
traditional methods and marine trawling.



-ll-
37.     Shrimp farms are generalLy developed by building a small peripheral
dike around low-lying areas inside polders in order to create a pond. Ponds
range in size from about 10 ha to 150 ha, depending on topographical features
and local shrimp farming practices. Average landholding size within the
polders is 1.9 ha which is farmed in fragmented plots averaging about 0.24
ha. Juvenile shrimp are trapped in the pond with the infLux of spring tides
and feed mainly on decomposing micro-organisms. Typically, a landowner
leases a pond area for about half a year to shrimp farmers, while using it
for paddy or salt production during the other half of the year. In the
shrimp/paddy rotation, practiced primarily in the Khulna area, shrimp grow
from January LO May. and in the shrimp/salt rotation, practiced primarily in
the Cox's Bazar area, from June to November. In both cases land is left
fallow for half a year if it is not used for shrimp cultivation.  Cu-rent
annual yields of export-quality shrimp average about 70 kg per ha. Yields
have gradually improved in recent years, particularLy in western Khulna where
some shrimp farmers have stocked their ponds with juvenile shrimp *ollected
in estuaries, and have obtained yields up to 150 kg per ha. With proper
water management, average yields could be much higher.
38.     Shrimp monoculture is practiced in a limited area.  To promote shrimp
farming, the Department of Fisheries (DOF) has leased from the Department of
Forestry about 1,700 ha previously under mangrove forests in Rampur, Cox's
Bazar area, which have been converted to some 40 shrimp monoculture farms
operated by private entrepreneurs under subleases from DOF. Yields in areas
u-ider shrimp monoculture are about 40Z above those attained in areas where
shrimp culture is rotated with paddy or salt production.
Marketing and Processing
39.     The local system for collecting, transporting, processing, and ship-
ping frozen shrimp is generally adequate and could accommodate the increased
output which would result from the proposed project. Traders buy shrimp at
the farm level, and transport them by headload, bicycle or small boat to
commission agents who in turn transport them by boat or truck to the process-
ing plants. In 1984, 45 processing plants were in operation with a combined
annual processing capacity of about 60,000 tons of frozen shrimp. Although
processors offer competitive prices, shrimp production is not sufficient to
meet demand and annual throughput is only 20X of the processors' installed
capacity. Most shrimp processing plants operate under an income tax holiday
system and benefit from other industrial or export promotion measures.
Institutions
40.     The Fisheries Division (FD) of the Ministry of Fisheries and
Livestock serves as the main government agency with responsibility for the
fisheries subsector. FD incLudes DOF, the Bangladesh Fisheries Development
Corporation (BFDC), and a Marine Fisheries Research, Management and
Development Unit which is expected to be merged with DOF. DOF is responsible
for administering the development of inland and marine fisheries; it is
headed by a Director, assisted by an AdditionaL Director and Deputy Directors



-12-
for regional and technical divisions. The major functional unit of DOF is
its Field Organization comprised of Divisional, District, and Upazila
fisheries offices and fish seed multiplication farms.
41.     The Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB), which operates under
the supervision of the Ministry of Irrigation, Water Development and Flood
Control, is charged with the responsibility for planning, constructing,
operating, and maintaining all flood control and drainage schemes as welL as
major and medium-sized irrigation systems. In this capacity, it constructed
the coastal embankment schemes during the 1960s and would be the Executing
Agency for the construction of major embankments and regulators under the
proposed project.
Constraints
42.     The key to sustained and expanded shrimp production lies in inten-
sifying existing shrimp-culture operations. Without improvement in
technology, organiza' ion, and policy, however, the scope for increased shrimp
production is limited. Most poldered areas considered suitable are already
under some form of shrimp culture. Expansion of shrimp culture outside the
poldered areas is limited by the inaccessibility of land, the high cost of
land development, and current land-use policies and legislation which make
access to suitable tidal land difficult. Any extension of the shrimp season
would result in corresponding reductions in the production of paddy or salt
in the rotation and would have an impact on farm employment. The development
of new shrimp culture operations within polders involves costly investments,
which small landowners and farmers cannot afford, and creates social tensions
which slow expansion. Shrimp culture is very often an activity of the rela-
tively larger landowners; small landowners, paddy farmers, and salt
producers, who lease their small plots to shrimp entrepreneurs, often feel
deprived of a fair share of the financial benefits of shrimp culture. The
proposed project would address the issue of social conflicts by promoting
increased participation of small landowners who would be organized into
shrimp-farming groups.   Groups which already exist would be enlarged and new
groups would be formed. By aggregating their small holdings, farmers would
be able to take better advantage of improved technology, to coordinate the
intake of saline water, to improve marketing methods, and to receive credit
on a group basis.
43.     The expansion of shrimp-farming activities has also been constrained
as a result of the ongoing controversy concerning the intake of salt water
for shrimp and fish cultivation into poLders used for paddy production. Some
rice farmers believe that salt water intrusion damages the Land and reduces
paddy production and have, therefore, opposed the intake of salt water for
shrimp production in rotation with paddy. BWDB has hitherto not allowed sal;
water intake into BWDB-administered polder areas on the grounds that it did
not have the legal authority to do so. However, due to the relatively high
return of shrimp cultivation, shrimp farmers have made illegal temporary cuts
in embankments to allow tidal inflows of salt water. rn January 1985, the
Ministry of Justice issued a legal opinion stating that BWDB has the



-13-
authority under the Embankment and Drainage Act of 1952 to permit saline
water intake into polders; under the proposed project, BWDB would be respon-
sible for instituting procedures for regulating saline water intake
(paragraph 57).
44.     DOF is neicher adequately organized nor equipped with the necessary
financial, technical, and manpower resources to perform its managerial and
developmental functions effectively. Its tasks are further complicated by
the numerous government agencies involved in one or more aspects of fisheries
development and a generally cumbersome and inefficient administrative system.
The 1983 Bank review of the fisheries subsector recommended the implementa-
tion of a plan for strengthening DOF as a means of advancing fisheries
development. In 1984, a Joint Government/FAO/UNDP evaluation proposed the
provision of consulting services to assist the Government in preparing a
program for improving DOF's organization, administration, and fisheries
deveLopment capabilities. A programming team completed i'ork in mid-1985,
financed under UNDP's Fishery Advisory Project (BGD/8L/034/F/01/2), and has
submitted a draft proposaL for a technical assistance project which would be
financed by UNDP and would complement the more specific, project-related
technical assistance to be provided under the proposed project
(paragraph 53). Other constraints which would be addressed by the proposed
project include the lack of a shrimp extension service to transfer technical
know-how to farmers, the unavailability of credit for necessary on-farm and
processing investments and the short-term leasing of Government lands which
discourages long-term investment.
IDA's Role and Lending Strategy in the Fisheries Subsector
45.     The Government's objectives for the fisheries subsector are:  (i) to
improve the nutritional level of the population through increased fish
production and consumption; (ii) to expand employment opportunities and
improve socio-economic conditions among those engaged in the fisheries
subsector; and (iii) to increase export earnings. The Bank has supported the
Government's objectives and, in a 1983 review of the fisheries subsector,
concluded that developing inland fisheries rather than marine fisheries would
be the most effective approach to achieving those objectives, with aquacul-
ture having the best potential for rapid growth. The review specifically
recommended further development of culture-based fisheries in larger inland
water bodies and shrimp culture in coastal areas, and the intensification of
carp culture in ponds where water control conditions are appropriate. The
Fisheries Master Plan, completed in March 1985, envisages 29 projects in the
fisheries subsector during the next 20 years.
46.     IDA involvement in fisheries development is an outgrowth of financing
water resource development projects and has focused on the need to identify
possible adverse effects on inland fisheries from flood control, drainage,
and irrigation works, and to mitigate such effects by appropriate design of
engineering structures and planned program to increase fish production. A
fisheries subproject was included in the Karnafuli Irrigation Project
(Cr. 605-BD), approved in 1976, which was designed to assess the impact of



-14-
irrigation and flood control projects on fisheries and to establish a modern
carp hatchery-cum-inland fisheries training facility. The project has been
successfully compLeted, but a Project Completion Report has not yet been
prepared. The Oxbow Lakes Fisheries Project (Cr. 890-BD), approved in 1979,
finances hatchery and fingerling-rearing faciLities at six individual lakes.
The central hatchery began operating in 1984 and three of the hatcheries at
satellite lakes are expected to start operation in 1985. The stocking of
lakes has begun and fish production already exceeds appraisal estimates.
Although organizational weaknesses within DOF, cumbersome Government
procedures, and land acquisition difficulties have caused problems in project
implementation, it is expected that the objectives of the project will be
fully met and that the annual fish production from project lakes will be
increased eight-fold. As a pioneering undertaking, the project has great
significance for large-scale development of culture-bssed floodplain
fisheries in Bangladesh.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.     The project was prepared in 1983 and appraised by a Bank mission in
October/November 1984. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Bangladesh: Shrimp
Culture Project" (Report No. 5561-BD) is being distributed separately. A
timetable of key events relating to the project and special conditions of the
credit are listed in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington in
November 1985. The Government of Bangladesh was represented by a delegation
led by Dr. S.H.K. Eusufzai, Member, Planning Commission.
Objectives and Description
48.     The proposed project would intensify the production of shrimp in
coastal areas of Bangladesh through the introduction of improved shrimp-
culture technology consisting mainly of improved water management and related
shrimp-culture practices. By increasing shrimp production, the project would
increase foreign exchange earnings from the export of shrimp, and improve
incomes, economic activity, and nutrition in rural areas. The project would
also: {i) encourage the participation of smaLl land-owners in group shrimp-
farming activities; (ii) increase capacity utilization in the shrimp-
processing industry; (iii) improve the marketing of shrimp; and
(iv) strengthen fisheries administration and extension services. The project
would provide for infrastructure development, medium-term credit, institu-
tional support to DOF and BWDB, and technical assistance and training.
Location
49.     An area of about 9,500 ha of lcw-lying, coastal lands already under
shrimp culture would be improved under the project, about 1,400 ha in the
Khulna area and about 5,600 ha in the Cox's Bazar area, which together would
constitute the Main Project Area, and an additionaL 2,500 ha, known as the
Additional Project Area, which would be selected during project



-15-
implementation. In Cox's Bazar, about 3,900 ha would be developed in exist-
ing polders or in areas scheduled for empoldering and about 1,700 ha would be
developed on former mangrove land in Rampur subleased by DOF to private
shrimp farmers (paragraph 39). The Main Project Area includes lands where
all three modes of shrimp cultivation are currently being practiced--
shrimp/paddy rotation in Khulna, and shrimp/salt rotation and monoculture in
Cox's Bazar--and which are suitable for shrimp farming without adversely
affecting existing land use patterns. The 2,500 ha of Additional Project
Areas would be selected according to criteria satisfactory to IDA. These
2,500 ha would constitute a pilot project to see whether a private sector
approach is feasible in increasing shrimp yields and to determine how much
yields can be increased in areas where provision is made for credit,
extension, and training but not for additional public-sector investment.
Specific Components
50.     Infrastructure.  The proposed project would finance embanknents,
water control structures, and shrimp hatcheries in the Main Project Area.
Three kinds of embankments would be built or improved to BWDB standards:
(i) main flood protection embankments enclosing poldered areas;
(ii) secondary embankments to separate shrimp farms from each other and to
prevent the seepage of saline water from shrimp-farming areas to adjacent
land; and (iii) pairs of parallel embankments to form water supply and
drainage channels for shrimp farms. Two shrimp hatcheries, each with an
annual production capacity of about 10 million juvenile shrimp, would be
built to supply shrimp farmers in the project area with shrimp seed and to
demonstrate the commercial viability of hatcheries to encourage private
sector investment.
51.     Credit.  The project would provide credit to shrimp farmers, farmers'
groups, traders, and hatchery operators to finance: (i) on-farm investments
such as equipment and small embankments to divide shrimp farms into
individual ponds and, in the Additional Project Areas, secondary embankments
to separate shrimp farms from adjacent areas; (ii) marketing equipment such
as ice boxes to improve transport and processing facilities; and (iii) small,
privately-owned shrimp hatcheries to provide juvenile shrimp. Credit
delivery would be handled by two Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs),
Bangladesh Krishi Bank and Sonali Bank, which have branch offices in the
proposed project area and by other PCIs as agreed by GOB and IDA. The
project would provide institutional support to the PCI branches operating in
the project area and would disburse subloans under the project through a
supervised credit scheme (paragraph 59).
52.     Institutional Support.  The project would support the establishment
of a Shrimp Culture Extension Service (SCES) made up of three Mobile
Extension Units which would provide technical assistance to shrimp farmers
in improved water management, shrimp farming and marketing, planning and
construction of water control structures, credit application procedures, and
business management. In addition, the project would provide for the estab-
lishment of two Demonstration Farms and Training Centers (DFTCs) which would



-16-
provide training to extension workers and shrimp farmers and would be used to
demonstrate improved shrimp farming techniques. Both the SCES and the DFTCs
would be part of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which would be estab-
lished within DOF (paragraph 53). The project would help to finance
buildings, equipment, incremental salaries, and operating costs of DOF and
BWDB. Buildings to be financed include: (i) a new headquarters building
for DOF; and (ii) offices and some staff quarters for the PIU, the SCES, and
the DFTCs. Incremental staff salaries and operating costs for the PIU, the
SCES, the DFTCs, and the two BWDB field divisions (one in Cox's Bazar and one
in the Khulna area) which would manage the construction work related to
embankments and water regulators would be financed on a declining scale over
the life of the project (paragraph 61).
53.     Technical Assistance and Training.  Through a UNDP grant, the project
would finance the services of internationally-recruited consultants to
provide technical assistance to PIU in fields such as shrimp farming, project
management, training, engineering/hydrology, and ruraL development. A local
consultant, preferably a non-governmental organization (NGO), would be
recruited to assist in the formation of shrimp-farming groups (paragraph 43).
Consultants would assist PIU, which would be responsible for all training
activities under the project, in formulating a plan for the training of
extension staff in advanced shrimp-culture techniques at the DFTCs. This
training plan would be furnished to IDA for approval by December 31, 1986 and
updated thereafter by December 31 of each year of project execution. The
project would also finance about 20 fellowships for study abroad and stipends
for 3,000 shrimp farmers to be trained at DFTCs. Consultants employed under
the project would have qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA.
Costs
54.     Project costs, including contingencies, are estimated at US$36.7
million, of which US$5.1 million would be duties and taxes. Physical contin-
gencies are estimated at 11% of base cost estimates. Price contingencies are
based on escalation rates of 3.4% for FY86 (eight months only). 7.0% for
FY87, 7.3% for FY88, 7.6Z for FY89, 7.7% for FY90, and 6.1% for FY91 for
foreign costs, and 8% for FY86 (eight months only), 12% for FY87, and 10%
annually for FY88-FY91 for local costs.
Financing Plan
55.     IDA would finance approximately 70% (US$22.0 million) of total
project costs net ef duties and taxes of US$5.1 million, and UNDP 14% (US$4.5
million). Remaining financing would come from the Government (US$4.5
million), BB (US$1.4 million), PCIs (US$2z4 million), and private investors



-17-
(US$1.9 million). Fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effective-
ness of the UNDP Project Document and approval of the Project Proforma
(PP) 1/ would be conditions of credit effectiveness.
On-Lending Arrangements
56.     About US$15.4 million of the IDA credit would be transferred by the
Government to DOF and BWDB. The remaining US$6.6 million wouLd be onlent to
BE for twelve years, including four years of grace, at an interest rate of
not less than 6% per annum, 2.5% of which wouLd be retained by BB for bearing
the foreign exchange risk. IDA would refinance 80% of the disbursements made
by BB for all investments, and BB would refinance 78% of PCI disbursements
for on-farm investments and 72% of PCI disbursements for investments in
hatcheries and marketing equipment. BB would onlend the US$6.6 million plus
US$1.4 million of its own funds to the PCIs for eight years at an interest
rate of not less than 8.5Z per annum. The PCIs would make available this
US$8.0 million plus US$2.4 million of their own funds to individuals or
groups of farmers for up to 70Z of investment in hatcheries and marketing
equipment and 90% of on-farm investments at an interest rate of not less than
16% per annum for five to seven years. Domestic inflation in Bangladesh is
projected to average about 10-11% during the project period; thus the
proposed interest rate to ultimate beneficiaries would be positive in real
terms. Short-term financing and refinancing would be provided by the PCIs
and BB, respectively, from their own resources. The onlending arrangements
between the Government and BB would be set forth in a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement. The refinancing arrangements between BB and the PCI's would be
incorporated into Participation Agreements. Execution of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and the Participation Agreements, all satisfactory to IDA, would be
conditions of credit effectiveness.
Implementation
57.     The Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock would have overall respon-
sibility for implementing the proposed project through DOF's PIU over a
five-year period. Appointment of ke-y PIU staff would be a condition of
credit effectiveness. The P1U would be responsible for: (i) administering
and supervising the project's financial managementr procurement, and con-
struction of offices and residential buildings; (ii) coordinating BWDB's
ccn-truction of embankments and regulators; (iii) supervising consulting
activities; (iv) operating and maintaining the two DFTCs; (v) establishing
and maintaining the SCES; (vi) constructing and operating the two PIU shrimp
hatcheries; (vii) monitoring progress in project implementation and trends in
the shrimp market; and (viii) proposing areas for long-term saline water
intake permits (SWIPs) that would authorize BWDB to open sluice gates of
specific farm blocks for the intake of saline water. The Government would
1/ The Project Proforma are internal government documents, approval of
which is a prerequisite for the release of funds and the hiring of staff.



-18-
ensure that by December 31, 1986, DOF or another Government agency or
department, would have the authority to grant to shrimp farming groups or
individual shrimp farmers: (i) SWIPs for land within the project area; and
(ii) long-term leases for at reasonable fees for the 1,700 ha of government-
owned land in Rampur.
58.     In view of its experience in constructing and maintaining coastal
embankments, BWDB, in close coordination with PIU, would be responsible for
the procurement of all civil works that are financed as public investments
and remain BWDB's property, i.e. peripheral embankments and regulators. In
keeping with BWDB's experience that one Field Division can handLe the equiv-
alent of about US$1.5 million of contract work annualLy, two separate Field
Divisions, each headed by an Executive Engineer and under the supervision of
a Superintending Engineer would be established under the project
(paragraph 52). The designation of the Superintending Engineers would be a
condition of credit effectiveness. BWDB would further be responsible for:
(i) approving the selection of the Additional Project Areas; (ii) operating
the completed project structures according to the instructions of the
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Committees to be established in each shrimp-
farming block; (iii) carrying out annual O&M works; and (iv) acting as col-
lection agent for direct recovery charges (paragraph 65). The Government
would ensure that the PIU, assisted by BWDB, would be responsible for estab-
lishing O&M Committees and that adequate funds are allocated to BWDB for the
operation and maintenance of project facilities. To ensure the timely
acquisition of land required for the construction of embankments, roads and
other structures included in the project, BWDB would submit land acquisition
plans to the appropriate District Deputy Commissioner at least nine months
before the land is needed to begin construction. The Government would ensure
that the concerned Deputy Commissioners are given the funds, vehicles, survey
equipment and staff necessary for the verification and approval of land
acquisition plans.
59.     BB would develop and submit to IDA for approval, as a condition of
credit effectiveness, a Banking Plan that would contain details on the
specific rules of the PCIs in establishing and maintaining a supervised
credit scheme in the project areas. PCI staff wou'ld be responsible for field
appraisal, execution of subloan agreements, supervision of loan utilization,
and recovery of principal and interest. To perform these tasks, the PCIs
would up-grade their staff at Upazila-level branches in the project areas.
Procurement
60.     Procurement of civil works (US$13.6 million, including contingencies)
would be by small contracts at locations dispersed over the project area and
thus not suitable for international competitive bidding (ICB). Contracts
would be awarded following local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures satis-
factory to IDA. Tender documents and bid evaluations for the first contract
for each type of civil works (earthworks, regulators, buildings), and there-
after for each contract exceeding US$200,000, would be reviewed and approved
by IDA. For all other works, bid evaluation reports and contracts would be



-19-
furnished to IDA before reimbursement. Procurement of equipment (US$1.3
million, including contingencies) would be primarily through ICB. A bid
evaluation preference limited to 15Z of the cif price or the prevailing
customs duty, whichever is lower, wouLd be extended to local manufacturers.
Items which cannot be grouped together and costing less than $100,000 for
each contract, but not exceeding $500,000 in the aggregate, would be procured
following LCB procedures. Items costing less tnan US$10,000 per contract,
and not exceeding an aggregate amount of US$100,000, would be procured after
soliciting prices from at least three suppliers. Tender documents and adver-
tising procedures for all ICB procurement would be reviewed by IDA before
bids are invited, and bid evaluations would be approved before contract
award. Consulting services and related costs (US$4.5 million, including
contingencies) financed by UNDP would be procured by IDA as Executing Agency
in accordance with World Bank principles and procedures.



-20-
Procurement Table Ia
Total
ICB       LCB        Other      NA /b    Cost
             ----------US$ million---
Land Acquisition                                                   1.2         1.2
(0)         (0)
Civil Works                                   13.6                            13.6
(12.3)                          (12.3)
Equipment and Vehicles            0.7          0.5       0.1 /c                1.3
(0.5)       (0.3)      (0.1)                 (0.9)
Credit Items (Farm                                      12.3                  12.3
Improvement, Private                                  (6.6)                 (6.6)
Hatcheries and Market-
ing Investments)
Project related TA (Consultants,                         4.5 /d                4.5
Equipment, Training)                                   (0)                   (0)
Incremental Salaries                                               3.2         3.2
and Operating Costs                                             (2.2)       (2.2)
O&M for Structures                                                  .6          .6
(0)        (0)
Total                             0.7         14.1      16.9       5.0        36.7
(0.5)      (12.6)      (6.7)    (2.2)       (22.0)
/a The tigures include physical and price contingencies. Figures in
parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
/b Procurement procedures not applicable.
7i Contracts of less than US$10,000.
7- Procurement in accordance with UNDP procedures.
Disbursement
61.     Disbursement of the IDA credit would take place over six and one half
years and would cover: (i) 90% of contract expenditures for civil works,
including construction materials; (ii) 100% of foreign expenditures for
equipment and vehicles, 100Z of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 70%
of local expenditures for other items procured locally; (iii) 80% of amounts
disbursed by BB for PCI medium-term subloans; and (iv) 95% of incremental
salaries and operating costs for the first US$1.0 million, 80% for the next



-21-
US$0.3 million, 60X for the next US$0.4 million and 40X for the last US$0.3
million. Disbursement against expenditures in the AdditionaL Project Areas
would be subject to IDA's approval of such areas (paragraph 49). Full
documentation would be sent to IDA in support of withdrawal applications for
civil works and equipment except for small civil works contracts costing less
than US$10,000 each. For small civil works contracts, for credit
reimbursement, and for incremental salaries and operating costs, withdrawal
applications would be supported by certified statements of expenditure. In
order to facilitate disbursement, a Special Project Account would be estab-
lished in BB on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. An initial deposit
of US$1.6 million would be made into the Special Account.
Accounts and Audit
62.     Separate accounts would be kept for credit withdrawals made on the
basis of statements of expenditure.   For the two PIU hatcheries, an account-
ing system in accordance with normal commercial practice would be
established. Auditors acceptable to IDA would audit the project accounts
annually and submit a report to IDA within nine months of the close of each
fiscal year.
Monitoring and Evaluation
63.       A Monitoring and Evaluation Cell in PIU would have responsibility
for monitoring and evaluating the project, including preparation of reports
on physical and financial progress, production data, and price and market
trends. The cell would pay particular attention to agricultural aspects of
paddylshrimp rotation practiced in the 1,400 ha in the Khulna area
(Polder 20) included in the project. The Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
would carry out the monitoring of soils, water, and yields of paddy under
contract for a research subproject to be approved by the Bangladesh
Agricultural Research Council which implements the Agricultural Research II
Project (Cr. 1455-BD), approved in 1984.
Environmental Impact
64.     The project would not have any detrimental effect on the environment.
Intensification of shrimp culture would take place only in areas where it is
already practiced. Neither the existing land-use pattern nor the present
ecological balance would be changed. Positive effects would be achieved
through the elimination of salt water seepage into adjacent agricultural
land, by construction of appropriate boundary embankments, and by efficient
and timely water exchange to leach out salt from soils for paddy cultivation.
The further spread of extensive shrimp-farming operations into agricultural
and forest lands would be counteracted by the revision of Government policies
on salt-water intake (paragraph 44) and the leasing of public Lands and by
demonstrating the financial rewards of intensified shrimp culture.   The
project would not cause harm to other riparian States nor would it be harmed
by the use of water by such other riparian States.



-22-
Cost Recovery
65.     The Government proposes to recover the full cost of investment and
operation and maintenance of embankments and regulators adjusted for infla-
tion and including a rate of return on investment to GOB of not less than 6Z
by a combination of direct and indirect recovery over a twenty-year period
(the life of the project). Fees for direct recovery, in the form of a bet-
terment levy or licensing fee for salt-water intake, would be set by
December 31, 1987 and coLlected from beneficiaries in the Main Project Area
beginning July 1, 19P8, the end of the second shrimp harvest after the
facilities constructed under the project have begun to operate. Indirect
cost recovery would be achieved by means of an export cess on the fob value
of all shrimp exports also beginning July 1, 1988. GOB would enact
legislation, improve its collection procedures, and take other measures as
necessary to ensure full payment of the recovery charges; adjustments to
initial rates would be made every other year as warranted by actual invest-
ment and operation and maintenance costs. The ratio of direct to indirect
recovery could be modified by agreement between the Government and IDA
provided such rates were sufficient to achieve full-cost recovery or such
portion of it as the Government and the Association might agree.
Financial Rate of Return (FRR)
66.     Financial analysis was undertaken for typical 30-ha group farms
practicing the shrimp/paddy or shrimp/salt rotation and for a 40-ha farm for
shrimp monoculture -- the three types of shrimp cultivation. For the purpose
of FRR calculations, only on-farm investments are treated as investment
costs. Betterment levies in respect of public investment costs are included
in the FRR calculations to cover full O&M costs and achieve recovery of 9% of
Government investment in infrastructure. The effects of the export cess are
reflected in slightly reduced producer prices. FRR for each of the three
models exceeds 50% and is more sensitive to changes in benefits than to
changes in costs. Benefits would have to decline 60% and costs increase more
than 150% to jeopardize financial viability. The FRR of the hatcheries is
estimated at 30%; benefits could decrease by 37% and costs increase by 59%
before the hatcheries would become financially non-viable.
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
67.     The ERR of the project is estimated at 27%.  At a discount rate of
12%, the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Bangladesh, the project's
discounted benefits would be US$41 million and the discounted costs US$23
million, leading to a net present value in economic terms of US$18 million.
In the economic analysis, it has been assumed that the project life is 20
years, with full development reached in year eight. Sensitivity analyses
indicate that the project remains economically viable under a variety of
assumptions regarding costs and benefits. Project benefits could fall by
about 43% or lag five years before the ERR would fall below 12%. Similarly,
project costs could rise by 65% before the project would become unacceptable.
The project's low sensitivity to costs is about the same for investment and



-23-
operating costs. ERR for the total project is lower than FRR for individual
investment because all costs of institutional support are included in the ERR
calculation.
Benefits
68.     The major quantifiable project benefit would be the annual incremen-
tal production of about 1,500 tons of exportable shrimp and about 1,800 tons
of miscellaneous fish and shrimp. At full development, the export of shrimp
would generate annual foreign exchange earnings of about US$8.7 million per
year in November 1985 prices, an increase of almost 142 over current
earnings. Other tangible benefits would be the production of juvenile shrimp
in the project hatcheries and the incremental production of paddy. These
benefits would result in incceased net incomes to farmers and would be
brought about by improved water management and shrimp-farming technology
disseminated by the shrimp-culture extension service. Additional, non-
quantifiable, benefits that would result from project investments include:
{i) institutional improvement in DOF; (ii) production increases outside the
project area attributable to project activities; (iii) value added in quality
shrimp production through improvement in marketing arrangements and hygienic
conditions for handling and transport; (iv) slowing of the depletion of
juvenile shrimp resources in coastal areas through availability of juveniles
for shrimp culture from hatcheries; and (v) income generated through better
capacity utilization in the processing industry. While the country as a
whole would gain through an improved trade balance, the main beneficiaries of
the increase in incomes would be the small farmers in the project area.
About 3,700 farm households with 22,000 people would benefit directly from
project investments. About 1,000 jobs would be generated by O&M work and by
staffing of hatcheries, DFTCs and the PIU. Transitory labor requirements for
construction would amount to about 33,500 man-years.
Risks
69.     There are various project risks, but none of them would endanger the
viability of the project as a whole or of individual project components. The
two most important potential risks are a substantial reduction in world
market prices for shrimp or a failure to achieve envisaged shrimp yields.
The project would be able to absorb a decline in benefits of up to 43Z before
it would become unacceptable, a percentage higher than any price fluctuation
experienced in the world market for shrimp since 1974. Moreover, prices for
the type of shrimp produced within the project area are expected to increase
slightly. The risk of not attaining envisaged yields is smalL because the
technology for intensified shrimp culture is simple and well-developed and
the planned production Level is relatively low. Risks of inadequate or
delayed implementation would be minimized by the recruitment of consultants
to assist PIU in the strengthening of DOF. R.B.sks related to over-topping of
the embankments caused by floods would be minimiized by building embankments
of sufficient height to protect them against 100-year flood levels.



-24-
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
70.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recomend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D. C.
December 12, 1985



-25-
T A I L CA         * 'LP_
RANOLADEH              - SOCIAL INIATR  DATA SIIE
BUACLAOISH                             ENC            ( tm        AVE   S) in
lesr                     (Sri ki3W i? lSTINAWE) lb
nootk  z,yott WE%                 LOW KUcS             RiDDLE TINcISE
19,oll     i970kt gSl  T4S           ASU * PACIFIC         ASIA    PACFIC
MuC T>L go. 0)
TOTAL                              144.0       144.a       4
ACXICLXURAL                        94.6        91.0        97.'
C "  CArPIt  US)                        ..         ..        130.0              278.3                   1011.1
US=EM? WfmPbn  PEt LW TA
(KttILGAM or OIL EQUIVALENT)         ..         20.0       33.0              235.7                    506.8
mommA    m  us.L smnsucs
poPUnnaNj.NlD-UAR CTRUSAHNDS   53491.0    08117.0    93497.0
A   evaPuiaTION CZ or IOTAL)         3.2         7.6       17.0              22.3                      15.9
POPULATINa P&OJCTIOCS
iPOuPATIoN IN YU   200 MI)                              141.1
sT&nour  PCUULLTIOs  CHILL)                             310.0
POPULAON mSHh                                             1.9
0for0|T1 DCIISZT
nat SQ. v1.                      371.5      473.0       663.2              173.t                    380.9
PER SQ. E. ARFI . LAND           365.3      702.5       955.3             353.3                    1591.2
PULA7TION ACC STYIIICTURIE C3)
0-14 YILS                        64.2        46.Z       63.6               36.3                     36.2
15-66 UMS                        525         31.1        53.6               59.4                     57.7
65 AND ABOVE                       3.1         2.6        2.6                4.3                      3.5
POPMULLIO  GROVR RaTE CZ)
TOTAL                              1.9         2.4        2.6                2.0                      2.3
DREM                               3.7         6.2        6.2               4.1                       4.1
apIYE N=TH IATi (PU THOUS)          46.8        I8.0       61.5               27.5                     30.1
C--  wAt  IU' (Mu TSDUS)            22.5       20.9        15.7               10.2                      9.4
CROSS REODUCOTION RATE               3.4         3.4        3.1                1.7                      1.9
FANILY PLJIOIC
ACCEPoTs, AUUL (Cmm)..                      373.0     1007.0 /c
USRS a oF DMA          WOW)        .           ..        25.0 T_           49                        S6.5
FOOD AN mimnim
iNDEIC Of FOOD PROD, Pit CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      106.0       101.0       14.0              110.6                    124.4
PER CAPITA SPLY OF
CALRS ca or RQUIURETS)            f3.0       90.0        83.0              1u6.3                    115.7
PROTEINS (CGALS PU DAY)          43.0        45.0        42.0       b       0.1                       0.3
or  uiO  At amaL AND PLSZI        9.0         9.0        7.0 /a            14.4                     14.1
CtD (ACAS 1-4) DEATH RATZ           25.4       22.6        19.0               73                        7.2
NElLIE
LIFE ExPEcr. n  UtR  (YARS)         43.5       44.9        49.6              60.5                      6U.0
IFUANT moIrr. RATe (PCr T1OS)    159.0       150.0       132.0              69.2                      6.9
ACCESS TO SAE WVAR tSPoP)
TOTAL                                        45.0        38.0 /c            44.2                     46.0
UnRix                              .         fl.O        26.0 77           77.2                      57.6
RURAL                              ,,        470O        40. 77            34.6                      37.1
ACCES TO EITA DISPOSAL
C2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          6.0        3.0 A              7.8                     50.1
URBAN                                                    21.0 71           23.8                      52.9
RURAL                              ..                     i.o 7i      5      .5                      44.7
POPsLa. PLs PHYSMCI                 ..       6430.0      7810.0            3318.0                    7751.7
POP. PER N    C PERSO                ..     76610.0    22570.0             4690.7                    24b4.8
POP. PUR HOSITAL BED
TOTAL                                       7020.0 Ih  4090.0             1039.2                   1112.1
RAN                               ..        810.07    600.0 /.            299.1                     651.4
RURAL                                                 23470.0 7          6025.2                    259b.9
ADtMSSIONS PER HOSPITAL  MD         ..          ..          ..               52z3                      41.1
AVERASE SIZE OF hOUSEMLW
TOTAL                              ..          5.9 If     5.8 /c
URBAN                                         64W         6.1W -r
RURAL                                          .9 7f      5.8 Ic*
AVERAE NO. OF PESONS/RO0I
TOTAL                              ..         ..
UltRAW.   ..                                        .....
PERCESTACE OF DIAELLIUCS V111 .LECT
TORAL                              ..         ..          3.3 /c
UA                                 ..         ..
RDRAL                              ..         ..          .                  ..



-26-
T A I  L C 3A                                      FACE 2
RANCLAMOSU             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHC8T
SANGLAieSH                          iiEWICRNcE GRADUPS (IEIGWrZD AVERAGtS) /a
MDST                    CHOST RCENT ESTMATE) /b
RECENT             LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOE
1961t      197(1k ESTIXAT7!b         ASIA 6 PACUfTC         ASIA & PACIFIC
ADJUSTED ENROLtEENT RATIOS
PRIMARYt  TOTAL                   47.0        52.0       6u.U               92.6                     1UO.7
MALE                   b6.0        68.0        6R.0              105.5                    104.4
P11ALE                 26.0        34.0        51.0               79.3                     97.2
SNOQAXY: 70TAL                     8.0        19.0       15.0               31.3                      47.8
#4ILC                  t4.0        29.0        24.0               40.8                     5U.6
FDKALE                  1.0         8.0         6.0              21.9                      44.8
VOCATIONAL CZ OF SECONDARY)          1.O         0.8        14.3               3.2                      18.4
PUPIL-T-ACHER RATIO
IMAY                               ..        45.0        55.0 Id            38.0                      30.4
SEODNDARY                          ..        26.0        21.0 7             17.4                      22.2
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP          ..         0.4         0.4 /c             0.9                      10.1
RADIO RECETVERS/THOUSAND POP         ..          ..         8.1              129.8                     172.9
TV RECErZaESTHOUSAND POP             ..          ..          0.9              19.8                      58.5
NEUSPAPER C"UAIY GENERAL
INTEREST) CIRCLATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             ..          ..          5.8              25.7                      65.3
CIMA  ANNUAL ATZENANICE/CAPITA       ..          ..         ..                 6.0                       3.4
AU I03
TOTAL LAWOR FORCE (THOUS)        19252.0    23611.0    33542.0
MinALE ( PERNT)                   15.2       16.6        17.8               33.2                      33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             87.0       86.0        74.0 IC            69.6                      52.2
INwSTry (PERCENT)                  3.0         3.0       11.0 7r            15.8                      17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             36.0        34.7        35.1              41.9                      36.9
MALE                              58.7       55.9        56.3               53.6                      50.8
FINALE                            11.4        11.9        12.S              29.1                      26.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY  RATIO           1.3         1.          1.3               1.0                       1.1
iNcaIS DisERUGUoN
PERCUT OF mvATE nICoE
RECEIVED By
HIGHEST 52 or HOS OLDS            18.3         . 
IGHEST 202 0F HOUSEHOLDS         44.5        44.1 lh      ..                 ..                       48.0
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS           6.9 j      8.7 7b ..                      ..                        6.4
LO--      402 OF HOUSEHOLDS       17.9 Tj    19.6 7       ..                 ..                       15.5
POr TANT O
ESTIMAED ASOLUTE POVEr  INCME
LZVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..        139.0 Ih          133.9
RURAL                              ..          ..       I11.0 T            111.6                     151.9
ESTDUATED RIEATIE POVERTY IE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPrTA)
R                                  ..          ..          ..                ..                      177.9
RURAL                              ..         ..          ..                61.                      164.7
POVERTY INCOE LEVEL (:)
UR                                 ..          ..          6.0 /e           43.8                      23.5
RURAL                              ..          ..        86.0 Io            51.7                      3t.8
N. hOT AVAXIA=Z
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T t S
/.  Mm grDup averaes for each inadcator are population-eolghted aritlhstic _a*e. Cverage of countries
anag the Ladicator, depends on availabiUty of data and Is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted. beta for 1960" refer to any year betwen 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data for "hot Recent Esti_te" betimen 1981 and 1983.
/c  1980; /d 1984; /e  197;  If 1973; A  1963; A  1967  /I 1972.
JUlIE. 1985



-27-
DunWmoNs OF SOCUL  INDICA1TS
Notc Altou  ddheda anue drwn frm sous. gaUyjuded dthe most authouisative and reliable, it should also be nosed that dhy may ni. be internadonaly
_comprb bme of she lc of mndaridied defitions and concepu Nued by different countries in colectidg the data The datn are. nonethee, useful to
dencribe odern ofn .tude, indicat trcnd and ehuacterze erain nmor d j between countrie
Tbe refeerme amup are (1) he sM  country group of the sjec country ad (21 a country proup with sohww  t higher avera  income than the country
SrouprtXhect c_outry (cps fr "High Income Oil Expone" group whbre "Middk Income North Africa and Midle Eat! isehosen becuse ofstronger
sociocutua aIhia). In the geference grup data the averages am popution weighted arithmetic rnu  for esch indiator and shown only when mnjority
of ecountriesin a * p ha dtu ror dht indicator. Snue tshcovgofcouries amog the indicaors depenson the avnilabiliy ofrdsta and is not unifonn.
cution must bec ised   reldng avga eorone indicator to another. Ths averae am only udeul in comparing the value ofne indicator ass time among
tde country and rc   roups
AREA (thousand sq.kn.)                                        Cruire St  Rate (per shouaud)-ulumber of live births in the year
Total-Total surface are comprising land rea nd inland waters  per thousandofmid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     Crude Death Rate (pff btJeavd)-Number of deaths in the year
Agvicaburai-Est ce of agricultural arca used temporarily or   per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permaently for crops. pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Cwras Reproduwei Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow, 1960.1970 and 1982 dasa                           will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fcrtility rales; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current      in 1960.1970. and 1983.
market prices callaed by same conversion method as World      l                 c        Amua (thoaraudr)-Annual num-
Ran Alas (198183 bLsis).; 1983 data.                          berof acceptors ofbirth-control devices under auspices ofnational
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                family planning progran.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite,   Faidy Phmng-Uas (percet efmarred wmen)-Thc pcen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-    tage of married women of chld-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalnt per capita; 1960, 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form ofcontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                    ofchild-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATIS        CS                         groups.
Tad Papmltia.. Mi-Yew (thidssmir)-As orJuly 2; 1960, 1970,   FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data
Urhm Ppmfad    (pwcw of tat)-Rtio o  urbanto toal    rxx of FeodProdactiw Per Calaita (1969-71 = 106)-Index of per
ouain  diaercs (        d f fit )i Rano of urban to total     capita annual production of all food conumodities. Production
population; differcnt definitions of urban aes  may affect conwar-  exldsaia  edadse  o  giutr.Fo  omdte
ability of data among countics; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.    cxdudes anim  feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
include primary commodities (eg. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Ripulaion hejecuen                                            which are edible and contain nutrients (eg. coffee and tea are
Popdaion pi year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  exduded), they comprise cerals, root crops. pulses, oil seeds.
made for eacb economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetables, fruits, nuts. sugarane and sugar beet, livestock. and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates. mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggrgate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population bocame stationary.           Per Capia Sply ofCaories (percen ofreqreeiemrs)-Comput-
Stationary population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have sinultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports ess exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population, the birth rate is    exclude animal feed. seeds ror use in agriculture quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is aiso  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
sine was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights,
the population in the year 2000, and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population, and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement levcl.                                    waste at household level; 1961, 1970 and 1982 data.
Popsra7on Momentum-Is the tendency for population growth to   Per Capia SApply of otein (gras per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is measured as  provide for mninimun allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and puls protein. of which 10 grams
the year i. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment lvel from year t onward. 1985 data.                      75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
POPRqtion Deniy                                               average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqJan.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              Per Capita Prtein Supply froi Anjad and Pale-Protein supply
Per sqkm. agricaltura land-Computed as above for agricultural  offood derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                         1970 and 1977 data.
Peplaon Age Structure (pereemi)-Children (0-14 years). work-  CWd (ages 1-4) Deatk Rate (per thousmnd)-Number or deaths of
ingage(15-64years).andretired(65yearsandover)aspercentage     children aged 1.4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.            group in a givcn year. For most dcveloping countries data derived
Poption Growtk Rate (percst)-total-Annual growth rates or     from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total rnid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70, and 1970-83.  HEALTH
Populaion Gowth Rate (percemt)-arban-Annual growth rates      Life Expecraacy at Sitk (years)-N umber of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60, 1960-70. and 19704-3 data.   infant would live if prevailing patterms of mortality for aUl people



-28-
at the time oror its birth were to stay the same throughout its life;  Pupd-teadhr Rorio - priary, and secondary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     rolled in primay and secondary levels divided by numbers of
hfat Msrtduy Awe (per thousand)-Nurnber of infants who die    teschers in the corresponding leves.
befor reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year, 1960.1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMrTION
Acce  to So  W'aa (perceat of pop lhti)-tal  mwhmma            Phse.r Cus (Prohmsasd p_pb1sti.)-Palaener cars com-
rtrd-Number of people (total, urbn, and rufal) with reaonbe   ixise motor can seating les than eight persons; excludes ambul-
accs to safe water supply (includes trated surace water or    ances, hearse and military vehicles.
untlted but uwcontaninated water Swh u that from proected     Radio Recdrem  (per thmsmd pausddan)-All types of receivers
borehole, springs and santary wells) as percentaes of their repec-  ror radio broadcasts to general public per thousnd of population,
tive populations. In an urban area a public fountain o standpost  xcludes un-licensd receiers in countries and in years when
lcated not more n  200 metes from a houns may bc monidered    registration or radio ses was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within reasonable accem of that houe. In rural M     not be comparble since most countries abolished licenfing
reasonable accss would imply that the houswife or memnbers of the
bousehold do not bave to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TVR er (pr       _J      1-TV receivers for broadast
jD fetdling tbe fiamiy's wauter neadsL                       to generl publc per thousad population; excludes unlinsed TV
A fe o, - - 1 toFhing em Dbjwssl (pemem of popdff slool-corat, arbion,  even it comutries and in years wha  registration orTV  s was
Acces to EcreteDIsesal (peren of pop.latiaeetu,           inefc
aNd rural-Number of people (total, urban, and rutal) served by  inect.
excrta disposal as pecentages of their respective populations.   Cpeisladm (pm iliandpopultio*)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal mny include the coOection and disposal, with or  age cirulation of "daiy geneal intemt newspaper," ddined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and wastewater by water-  peixl pubiation devoted prmarily to ecordiang geal news.
borne s"gems or the use of pit privies and similar instations.  It is considered to be "daly" if it appeam at least four times a we
Pepulaia per PAysdaw-FPpulation divided by number of pne-     Cbtei Amwal Attendmwe per Capt per Year-Hased on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.  number of tickets sold during the year, including admisions to
Pepawan pr NrAn P,hso.-fopulation divided by number of        drive-in cinemus and mobile units.
practcn  male and female graduate nurses, assisnt nurses,
practcal nurses and nursing auxiliaies.                         LABOR FORCE
Pplutha per Hospitd Bed-ea& wra, raud -Plopulation            ros L           (t      d)-Ecoomically active pero. in-
(tota, urban, and rual) divAded by their respective number of  luding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives,
hospital beds available in publk and private. gcner ands d    studeits. etc., covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  ious countrsam not copamb; 1960.  70 and 1983 data.
permanendy sLaffed by at least one physician. Establishmets prov-  Feudk (percemr)-Femnal labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural Lospitals,    force.
howve  indude health and medical centers not permanendy staffed  Agr_chw  (p0erceaD-Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurse, midwifec, etc.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patint accomm_daton and providc a limited range  data.
or medical facilities                                         ladury (percemt)-Labor force in mining, construction, manu-
Admisios per Hospial B-Total number of admissions to or       facturing and electricity, water and gas as percetage oftotal labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
HlrOSGsaden ate (p rcen)  o4amal dfewk-Participation
HOUS11ING                                                     or activity rates are computed as totaL male, and femae labor force
Aerm    Size of HoasdW  (pawn per ho=eAH)-&tea.  hvan,        as percentages of totaL male and female popuation of al ages
andneraI-A household conasts of a group of individuals who shar  respectively, 1960, 1970, and 1983 data. Thes ar based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sx structure of the population, and
may not be included in the houschold for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A fcw estimates are from national sources.
Aera  Number of Pers   per Reoom-al, wha, and nwsa-           EemAou  Depefdnwy Ratio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Avcrage number of persons per room in al urban, and rural     65 and over, to the working age popuation (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respecdvdy. DweDings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied part.                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Pecetae Of DiveaOgs  t alecstcicr-aal, oman, an rival-        Percentage of Toal DirpsaMe Inn  (lek in cah and kind)-
Conventional dwelings with electricity in Civing quarters as percen-  Accruing to percene groups of houscholds ranked by total house-
tage of total urban, and rural dwellings respectively.        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjusted Enolmen Rados                                        The following estimates are very approximate mncasures of poverty
Arwiary school - totia. male and female-Grss total, male and  levels, and should be interprted with considable caution.
female enrolment of al ages at the primary kvel as percentages of  ;suated Absolute bvertiy laeon Level (Uper capwa) ---la
respective primnary school-ag populations While mrany countries  and rural-Absolutc poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country pracdies in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordabic
are refletd in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Esimaed Relie Pberey Incme LOe (1S3 per capista)-whm
education. gross enroUlment may exceed 100 percent since some  ad r_a-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupis are below or above the country's standard primaryschool  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondgry scool - total. mae andfena-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Esget. Popukio  Beow Absoite RPrv  1ncomw Lewd (per-
mary instruction; provid  general. vocationaL or teacher training  cmnt)-nban and rual- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; corrspond-  who are -absolute poor.
ence courses are generaly exluded.
Vocationd Eirolmeui (percen of seconday)-Vocational institu-            Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions indude technical, industiaL or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
indpendently or as departmets of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



-
Pepelatim: 100.06 millio  (1935)
CU? Per Capitat 5S8130 (1M)
Am_t
(m1ill. U3            Amraa  Amm  ZXcreae (5).                      inre of GOP at Market Prites (S)
is curret price)            1IhDn rct   rucr5                                   _        i
wite nZan                 FMe                                          rsio                       PY7e  nn    nae 2  EM E
Oto. domaetic produt La         11.754            4.0      -0.6       5.5      3.4       106.0  106.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
griculturc ^                   5.512             3.1      -1.5      3.3      2.0         59.9   56.9   62.5   53.4   46.7  46.9  46.9
l1duAtr7 LI                    1.493             7.9     -3.2       6.4      3.6         7.7    9.6   11.3   12.7   13.8  13.1  12.7
Services La                    4.749             4.9      3.3       6.1      4.1        30.1   30.0   26.2   34.0   39,6  40.0  40.4
Conumptieo                      11.351            4.4      -0.7       6.0      2.2        92A    92.6   99.2   98.0  103.6  95.3  96.4
Goss domestic iLeatnaDt          1.52             10.9    -10.9       2.0      0.7         6.9   11.3    8.1   16.7   13.9  16.4  15.7
Peporte of goods & ff            1.116            0.1      11.7       3.4      7.4        10.0    6.3    3.0    7.8    7.7   5.5   9.5
mport. of good. a efs            2.565             6.8    -12.0       6.L      1.1         9.3   12.5   10.3   22.5   25.2  23.2  21.3
Craeo.stioul eaing.                  4            26.5    -17.7      22.1    19.7          0.9    6.1    1.0    4.0   -1.0   6.0   7.2
_ut
(titll.   S3O                  Co.peitgie of NMrckemdj.a Prue CZ)
is currat priVces)                       (i curt ur
FM            ns n7s   mae mt nz    F8
.rceeMdie azport.                  322                       100.0   100.6  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
pri_r.h                          281                        41.8    31.5   29.7    31.9    33.3    34.2
llufacture                       541                        56.2    45.5   70.3    65.1    66.7    65.8
Merchandiae imports              2.353                       100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Food                             431                        47.6    44.    33.4    14.0    19.5    21.0
patrolem,                        355                         3.9    11.1   16.2    21.3    19.7    15.1
Machiery 6 eqipummt              686                        12.3    11.5   23.0    23.9    29.5    28.3
Other                            86                         35.7    33.0   27.       40.8    31.3    35.6
En   nu   Or   mZ2  am  rfs  DR   rrL  Oz   Oi  Or
1P1LC A)iinu 1 InaNE   123103  C1972M7-100)
UP Deflator                                    140.6   240.7   182.1   177.2   203.6   216.3   252.7    267.3   295.9   331.    371.2
hch.4  rate C( U1$)                              7.9661   .5759  14.e521  15.4467  15.1215  15.2228  15.4777  16.3447  20.0400 23.7600 24.9500
=aport price ide                               104.5   119.0   103.4   108.9   126.5   160.9   193.9    175.7   147.7   154.5  1l1.5
ipot prie inde                                 144.9   137.3    1  .2   17.2   163.7   208.9   234.9    263.9   259.9   237.    225.2
lare of trade index                             72.1    63.4    574       61.1    75.0    77.0    84.7        66.6    56.8    65.1    80.6
An 2 of C?
Wm       n777    Fpe          2              V ne
orrmt rerme                                        5.4     9.5      10.5       11.6    10.7    10.1
Crewont expenditure                               4.5      7.6       7.7        B.      8.5      5.
Oarret surplus C) or deficit C-)                  .0.9    *1.7    * 2.8        3.2    #2.2    +1.7
Capital ependitur                                  3.1      9.5     13.3       12.     11.6    10.3
foreign fiaencing                                  2.      6.0       3.2        8.0    11.4      8.5
CG  roth rate CZ)                                4.2         -0.6           6.3       5.4
GK? per capita hroeth rate CS)                    1.5        -3.0           4.0        2.3
.-  ot aailabl
.- _t applicable
La. At market prim.
,  R2  lute, tea, ed  fisheries.
May 31. 195



-30e _uma-e
BALANCE OP PATUI. UFEA  CAITL AND DOT?
Caillion U. is arrest -rices)
SBAANC  Or PAENTI
Actual                                          _      ul
an7 nit a   mu an  ant nt                                        an  1               nEn
Nat sparts of gooda                           -1,059    -903    -470    -859    -946  -1,650  -1.822  -1.946  -1.623  -1,531  -1.766
hxporta of goods                               36       372     405     490     610     722     711     626     6K6       322      934
Imort. of goaod                             -1.403  -1.275    -75  -4.349 -4.556  -2,372  -2,533 -2,572  -2.309  -2.353  -2,700
not exports of aervicee                           21     - 7     -29      -32     -28       4      15    -70    -112       -33       -se
VWker.' remittances                               35      29      60      113     143     210     379     424     628       552      442
Current account balance                       -1003 2    J       &2       Zi   =RL  -1435  -1.428 -1.592    1107  -103l.  -1412
Direct private investnt                            .      ..      ..       ..      ..       .       .      ..
IX loans Cast)                                   49      497      233     393     42      580     513     508      476      563      575
Grants A grant-like flow                         382    245      265      394     551     592     58      687     709       697      840
Other capital flows Cot)                         274       57     17    -39       -16     144     307     255     164      -82    -146
Chang  in resenres C- - increase)               -151      53    -a         25    -12A    119       24    142    -242      -166       143
Interatioesl resers (ed of period)               266     213     294      269     393    271      249     108     350       516      373
eserves as month of imports of snet year         2.5     2.9     2.6      2.1     2.0     1.3     1.2     0.6     1.8      2.6       1.7
Actual
aZ   Eak 5        22  Ml  MI  an   aL L n  nsi
Coss nxsusIsrrs
Total gross disbursements                   519      563      261     435     477     630     562     548      549
Coscesional                               458       533    244      401     456     600     541     468     483
Jilaterel                               343      390    144       262     213     273    2B7    232       213
IDA                                     112      128      80       se    153    152       170     158     190
Othor mltilateral                         3       15      14       51      £L    176       34      78       so
Non-conceasional                           60       30      24       35      20      30      21      St      67
Dileterial                               45       16        6       2       3      17       2       7      28
Io                                        -        -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -
Other ultilateral                         -        1       -       -        -       -       1      31      12
Private                                  15       13       18      32      17      13      19      42       26
NUT DIUSUSMES                                   498      497     238      398     42.    5s0      513     508     476
DIN OUTSTAJIDSIC
Total outstnding ad disbursed             1.355    1.797   2.053    2.571  2.951   3.216   3,615   3.979   4.470
Official                                1,233    1.689   1.940    2,436  2,S  3,067   3,491   3,834   4.317
IBID                                     55       55      55        55     55      55      55      55      55
SDA                                     255      38D     466       554    707     859  1.027   1,181   1,366
Other                                   923   1.254   1.419    1,827  2.047   2.154  2,409  2,599   2.896
Private                                   122      108    113        135    142     149    124      145     153
lUdialbrsed debt                          1,019      948  1.016    1.335  1,659   1.719  2.104   2.619   2.773
DINT SERVICZ
Total debt service                           31        88     59        69      f      94      91      87     123
Amrtization                                21       66       30       37     57      50      50      40      74
Intereat                                   10       22      28        32     3S      43      42      47      49
IBRD debt service                             0        2       3         3      4       4       4       4       3
ISA debt service                              1        2       3        4       4       6       7       8        8
Average interest rate
Official                                  1.8      1.2     1.3       1.2    1.3     1.2     1.6     1.8     1.0
Private                                   2.3       L9      7.2      6.2    6.1     6.9   10.8      L6       L6
Average aturity
Official                                 35.1     42.9    36.6      38L5   36.2    34.2   35.1    35.5    39.5
Private                                  15.3    11.3   11.0         9.5   14.8   19.2      7.7   11.7    12.9
gA GROUP UPoSURt (Xl
DRD DOD/tota Il w                             4        3       3         2      2       2       2       1       1
3DOD disburseemeut/total disbursmenta         0        0       0         0      0       0       0       0       0
5117D debt eervice/total debt mervice         0        2       6         5      4       4       4       4       3
IDA DM/total DOD                             19       21      23        22     24      27     2W       30      31
IDA disburemeot./total disbursments          22       23      32       20      32      24      30      29      35
IDA debt service/total debt aerwice           3        3       5         5      5       6       7       9       6
TEN STRUCTURE                                       At Jone  l9B3          MIMDA IZNIINC (At Jone 1983)   TIED    It
Maturity structure of debt                                             Outstanding 4 Disbursed            54.9 1,365.8
Maturities due within 5 years                        15.1            Uodisbursed                          -   1,005.0
Maturitie due within 10 years                        29.4            Outstandin, incl. Ddisbursed       5469  2,370.8
Interest structure of debt
nuteret due within 1 yesr                             1.6
..owt available
A6A
September 27, 1985



-31-                               ANINI II
Page 1 of 4
TUE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGU3ESN /*
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of Sentember 30. 1985)
Amounts
Loan or                                                        (less cancellations)
Credit                                                            US$ Million /b
Number    Year  Borrover               Puryose             Bank      IDA   Indisbursed
One loan and 38 credits fully disbursed                    54.90 1,315.66        -
527      1975 Bangladenh Ashuganj Fertilizer                -      62.00       0.40
542      1975 Bangladesh Barisal Irrigation                 -      21.00       2.79
725      1977 Bangladesh luburi Irrigation                  -      21.00       0.58
787      1978 Bangladesh  Foodgrain Storage II              -      21.00       0.78
864      1978 Bangladesh  Drainage 6 Flood Control          -      19.00       8.05
890      i;g 9 Bangladesh  Oxbov Lakes Fisheries            -       6.00       2.07
912      1979 Bangladesh  Vocational Training               -      25.00      11.87
921      ij79 Bangladesh  Population & Family Health II    -       32.00       8.91
934      1979 Bangladesh  Greater ihulna Power
Distribution                   -     28.00       4.42
955      197 9 Bangladesh  Small-Scale Drainage &
Flood Control                 -      25.00      11.40
964      1979 Bangladesh  Highvays II                       -      10.00       4.07
1001      1980 Bangladesh Chittagong Water Supply II         -      20.00       7.73
1023      1980 Bangladesh  Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                -      29.00        8.48
1032      1980 Bangladesh  Jute Industry Rehabilitation      -      20.00      10.45
1042      1980 Bangladesh Mangrovve Afforestation            -      11.00       4.89
1054      1980 Bangladesh  Education IV (Primary Education) -       40.00      19.49
1065/c    1980 Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry III          -      35.00      10.83
l091/c    1981 Bangladesh Bakhrabad Gas Development          -      85.00       2.69
1096kc    1981  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Transport             -      25.00      10.15
1117/c    1981 Bangladesh Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II          -      50.00       9.37
1124/c    1981 Bangladesh  Technical Assistance IV           -      16.00       2.76
1140/c    198  Bangladesh  Hand Tubevells                    -      18.00       9.86
1147k     1981  Bangladesh  Agricultural Credit              -      40.00       7.87
1184k     1982 Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control II       -      27.00      20.32
1204/c    1982 Bangladesh Chittagong Urea Fertilizer         -      15.00      13.56
1205Lc    1982 Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehabili-tation  -      30.00      25.46
12151c    1982 Bangladesh  Extension & Research II           -      27.00      17.84
1247/c    1982 Bangladesh  Chittagong Port                   -      60.00      51.43
1254Lc    1982 Bangladesh Ashuganj Thermal Power             -      92.00      84.25
1262k     1982 Bangladesh  Rural Electrification             -      40.00      19.62
1287/c    1982 Bangladesh Deep Tubevells II                  -      68.00      54.40



-32-                               ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bataladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                          (less cancellations)
Credit                                                              US$ Million /b
Number    Year  Borrower                Purpose              Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
1301/c     1983  Bangladesh  First Highway Project
(Supplemental)                 -       6.00       2.90
1318/c    1983 Bangladesh Business Management
Education & Training           -       7.80        6.70
1321lc    1983 Baugladesh  Telecommunications III              -      35.00      26.21
1349/c    1983 Bangladesh  Public Administration
(Training and Personnel
Management)                    -      12.00        9.29
1357/c     1983 Bangladesh  Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation        -      28.50       25.14
1384kc    1983 Bangladesh  Rural Development II                -     100.00      86.24
1396/c    1983 Bangladesh  Agricultural Training II            -       8.10       7.21
1399/c    1983 Bangladesh  Sugar Rehabilitation and
Intensification                -       20.00     18.28
1402/c /e  1983 Bangladesh  Petroleum Exploration Promotion  -         23.00     18.69
1440/      1984 Bangladesh  Fifth Technical Assistance         -       25.00     25.21
1455k      1984 Bangladesh  Second Agricultural Research       -       24.50     24.79
1467/c     1984 Bangladesh  Water Development Board            -       41.50     39.40
1471/c    1984 Bangladesh  Import Program XII                  -      140.00     19.54
1.477/c    1984 Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. II         -       23.00     22.88
F022/c     1984 Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. rI         -       22.00     21. 93
1490/c /e  1984 Bangladesh  Technical Education                -       36.00     35.40
1504-0 |c  1984 Bangladesh  SAP  725 BD                        -       10.00      9.28
1504-1  c  1984 Bangladesh  SAP 1023 BD                        -        5.00      4.24
1504-2 kc  1984 Bangladesh  SAP 1247 BD                        -        7.00      6.05
1504-3 /c  1984 Bangladesh  SAP 1262 BD                        -        8.00      7.34



-33-
ANNEX 1I
Page 3 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Ctedits to Bantladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                          (less cancellations)
Credit                                                              US$ Million /b
Nhxber    Year  Borrower                Purpose             Bank       IDA   Uhdisbursed
1574L  LId  1985 Bangladesh  Second Primary Education         -        7.00      78.00
1585/Lc d  1985 Bangladesh  Second Gas Development            -       110.00    110.00
1587/c    1985  Bangladesh  Flood Rehabilitation              -        30.00     28.68
1591L/c Ld  1985 Bangladesh  Third Flood Control & Drainage   -        48.00     48.00
Total                                                    55.40  3,133.29  1,128.19
of which repaid                                        1.45       8.71
Totgl nov outst adiag                                    53.45  3.124.58
Amount sold                                             0.00      0.00
Total now held by Beak and IDA                          53.45  3.124.58
Total undisbursed                                                         1.128. 19
La The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed proJects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
,b  The original principal of credits under replenishuents 1 to 3 has been increased
by the amount of the translation adjustment as a result of the devaluation of
the United States dollar in 1972 and 1973.
,c Credits funded out of IDA 6th and 7th leplenishbuents denominated in SDRs. The
principal amounts of fully disbursed Credits are U.S. dollar equivalent at
negotiation as shown in the President's Reports; the undisbursed amounts are
calculated at the rate of exchange in effect on Se&tember 30, 1985.
ad Not yet effective.



-34-
ANNEX rI
Page 4 of 4
/usrO6/asadd/ceny/PRESREP/annex2/ 10-22-85
B.  STATEMNT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of Sept. 30. 1985)
Fiscal                                                             Amounts in US$ Million
Year           Oblisor                Type of Business             Loan   Eauity    Total
1969   Karnaphuli Paper Mills Ltd.   Pulp & Paper Products          5.60    0.63     6.23
1979   Highspeed Shipbuilding &
Heavy Engineering Co., Ltd.   Shipbuilding                 1.20      0.36     1.56
1980    Industrial Promotion and
Development Company of        Development
Bangladesh, Ltd.               Finance Company              -                 1.05
1985     Bata Shoe Co.                 Shoe Manufacturing
(Bangladesh) Ltd.            and Tannery                  3.28     0.51      3.79
1985     Industrial Development
Leasing Co. of Bangladesh
(IDLC)                       Capital Market               1.95      0.17    2A2
Total zross commitments                                            12.03     2.72    14.75
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales           6.26      0.63     6.89
Total now held by IFC                                               5.77     2.09     7.86
Total undisbursed                                                   5.77     0.08     5.85



-35-                        ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
Three years.
(b) Agency preparing the project:
IDA
Department of Fisheries
Bangladesh Water Development Board
Cc) Date of first preparetion mission by IDA and date of
first mission to consider the project:
January 1982.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
October 1984.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
November 14, 1985.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
Ninety days after signature.
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action:
None.
Section III: Special Conditions:
Condition of effectiveness would be:
(i) fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the UNDP document (para 55);



-36-                        ANNEX III
Page 2
(ii) approval of the Project Proforma (para 55);
(iii) execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOB
and BB, and of Participation Agreements between BB and
PCIs (para 56);.
(iv) appointment of key PIU staff (para 57);
(v)  designation of two Superintending Engineers within BWDB
(para 58); and
(vi) preparation of a Banking Plan satisfactory to IDA
(para 59).
A condition of credit disbursement against expenditures
in the Additional Project Areas would be subject to
IDA approval of such areas (para 61).
Other conditions would be:
(i)   By December 31, 1986, PIU would prepare and furnish to
IDA for approval a Training Plan which wouLd be updated
thereafter by December 31 of each year of project execu-
tion (para 53);
(ii) The Government would take aLl necessary action to ensure
that by December 31, 1986 DOF or another Government
agency or department would have the authority to grant
long-term saline water intake permits for the Project
area and long-term leases to shrimp farmers (para 57);
(iii) BWDB would submit land acquisition plans to c.le concerned
Deputy Commissioner at least nine months before the land
is needed for construction of project works (para 58);
and
(iv)  By December 31, 1987, the Government would eL.rct legisla-
tion and take other measures to carry out a program,
commencing July 1, 1988, to recover full cost of invest-
ment and operation and maintenance of the embankments,
regulators and other facilities constructed or provided
under the project (para 65).



IBRD 18693
-   .-                                        0 DA
d_- _            6'*\:                    te   2~01                 I N DIA\
c-:_ I.                               wA                >' 0                                       ( EI
rz                            Jll                        .r.  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XMAil
mid~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'i
w~~~~~.tm~~~ ~ Vin                                                   IND         XIA mNn}{: ':
jFor doil me                                        
IBRD 18699.- M                                  I                     Jt 
'R=  c                                      '             ' -   -                  Gis~ - 
IN
,~~~~~ ~~~ K, r-.  
0/~                          \      HtfDI   NaSon- Cp1                          d
it ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  -i
q~~~~~~~~~
<   .         *1      \.                        o  Urban Cen Os\
o'  A^Y f;F RF£r:AI~~~              -'               -- 'Introtoa 1owdr
XI . 
(/!             p   f ;-'w'Ef O,9                                                25 SD_ 520
~~~~~ ~~~0
)&\-"of  the         g                     BAY  OF BENGAL                FaRD dtIBMa
*18   -        ISUNOS   '.                        0           25           50   I'JILE5~~~~~~900 
INDIA                                                                B,ao~
:  * ....  .   : .   £  CIN N A
~ANGLAOESIJ
BANGLADESH
I N DI A         DM:"A                                SHRIMP ~-CULTURE  PROJECT
I>~h\IL/BURMA                     LOCATION  OF PROJECT AREAS
AREA Or MAP\,"Poe  ra
I                   THAND       S~V                    Na6aianc  Caital
N                 a ~~~~~~Urb,mi Cantws
BAY OF BENGAL                                         -    nterntianal Boundaries
ISANDS U,
WINDA (
0          -W~~~5  75  ICJLOMETER
ISLANDS                          a0i                       5 SMILES
LANWI\
200~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
-IND0NESIA
JANUAY 18






