Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 13679
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1651-BD)
NOVEMBER 4, 1994
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka (Tk)
At Staff Appraisal Report Year (1985)        US$1 = Tk 35.4
At Completion Year (1993)                    US$1 = Tk 40.0
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ADP         Annual Development Program
BB          Bangladesh Bank
BWDB        Bangladesh Water Development Board
DCA         Development Credit Agreement
DFTC        Demonstration Farm and Training Center
DOF         Department of Fisheries
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GOB         Government of Bangladesh
IDA         International Development Association
MOFL        Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock
NGO         Non-Government Organization
OLFP        Oxbow Lakes Fisheries Project
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
PBs         Participating Banks
PCR         Project Completion Report
PL          Post Larvae
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
RMB         Resident Mission Bangladesh (World Bank)
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
TA          Technical Assistance
UNDP        United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
November 4, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Bangladesh
Shrimn  Culture Project (Credit 1651-BD)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Bangladesh-Shrimp Culture Project (Credit
1651-BD) prepared by the South Asia Regional Offke. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The project aimed to increase shrimp production in coastal polders through improved
infrastructure and operations, thus increasing farmers' income and exports. The training and extension
efforts by a state agency and a local NGO were successful in bringing new skills to staff and farmers'
groups. As a result shrimp fishing areas, production, and export increased to levels close to SAR targets.
However, serious problems (delays, construction flaws) occurred in the civil works and hatchery
components, and the credit component was not used.
The institutional design left a great deal to be desired. Lack of provision for operations and
maintenance (O&M) remained a major problem at the time of PCR preparation. Compliance with the
cost recovery covenant did not begin until 1993, after a revised mechanism was agreed. Clear O&M
roles for public agencies and farmers' groups were not in place at project closing. The PCR mission
observed that the training and extension efforts were already undermined by lack of funding, and that the
civil works were deteriorating. The outcome of the project is rated marginally satisfactory because
shrimp production and export increases are close to targets. However, institutional development is rated
as modest and sustainability as uncertain.
The PCR is satisfactory. It describes shortcomings in project design, implementation, and
O&M and provides a plan for curtailing further deterioration of investments. An audit of this and other
Bangladesh projects dependent on community involvement may be conducted at a later time.
Attachment
Ths document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
(Credit 1651-BD)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pag-e Nos
PREFACE  .         ...............................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................................  ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  IDA'S PERSPECTIVE  ..............  1
Project Identity ...............1......................... 1
Background ............... 1
Project Objectives and Description ......................... 2
Project Design and Organization ..........               ..............  3
Project Implementation .................................... 4
Project Results.                                                                    9
Project Sustainability .11
IDA Performance                                  .11
Borrower Performance .12
Lessons  Learned  ........................................  12
Project Relationship .13
Consulting  Services  ......................................  13
Project Documentation and Data .14
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .15
Bank's  Performance    ......................................  15
Borrower's Performance .15
Lessons  Learned  ........................................  16
Relationship between the Bank and the Borrower .16
Performance of Co-Financier .16
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION .17
Related  IDA   Credits   ......................................  17
Project Timetable .18
Credit Disbursements .19
Project Implementation .20
Project Cost and Financing .22
Project Results .24
Status of Major Covenants .26
Use of IDA Resources .28



ANNEX 1: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMUC ANALYSIS ................. 30
Table 1: Project Production, Costs and Margins - Shrimp  ............... 31
Table 2: Project Production - Paddy ............................ 32
Table 3: Project Production - Hatcheries .......................... 33
Table 4: Models ........................................ 34
Table 5: Project Costs ..................................... 35
Table 6: Key Indicators .................................... 36
Table 7: Export parity Prices of Shrimp .......................... 37
Table 8: Economic Analysis ................................. 38
ANNEX 2: GUIDELINES FOR PREPARING O&M  ......................
Procedures for Assessment of Levy ....................... 39
Table 1: Guidelines for Preparing O&M Plan & Assessment for cost Recovery . . 40



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROTECT
(Credit No. 1651-BD)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Shrimp Culture Project in the
People's Republic of Bangladesh for which Credit No. 1651-BD in the amount of SDR 20.6
million was approved on January 14, 1986. The total cost of the project amounted to US$36.7
million for which IDA was to provide US$22 million (converted at the SDR exchange rate of
that time), UNDP US$4.5 million, the Government of Bangladesh US$4.5 million in local
currency including taxes and duties, and the remainder of US$5.7 million was to be provided
by Bangladesh Bank, participating banks and investors. The Credit was signed on February 14,
1986, became effective after three extensions of the effectiveness date on October 30, 1986, and
closed after four extensions for a total duration of 24 months on October 31, 1993. A total of
SDR 13.5 million was disbursed and the undisbursed balance of SDR 7.1 million cancelled; the
final disbursement was made on February 17, 1994.
The Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by an
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program mission which visited Bangladesh in October 1993, and
revised by staff of the Bangladesh Resident Mission and the Agriculture Operations Division of
the Country Department 1, South Asia Region. The PCR is based, inter alia, on a review of
the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), supervision
reports, project files, and on field visits to project sites, discussions with Borrower staff and
beneficiaries, participating banks and with IDA staff associated with the project. UNDP's
comments on the PCR have been taken into account. The Borrower submitted Part II in June
1994.






ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
(Credit No. 1651-BD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background (Section 2)
(i)   The fisheries subsector in Bangladesh is of considerable importance because of its
contribution to nutrition, income, employment generation and foreign exchange earnings. The
country has a diverse aquatic wealth and a climate suitable for high yields and a considerable
increase in fish and shrimp production. IDA has been involved in the subsector since 1975 and
the first major investment -- the Oxbow Lakes Fisheries Project (OLFP) Cr. 890-BD -- was made
in 1979 to develop the inland oxbow lakes. During the course of implementation of OLFP, the
Government of Bangladesh (GOB) requested IDA assistance to develop the coastal lands for the
production of brackish water shrimp, mainly to increase shrimp exports and farm incomes in
coastal rural areas. A shrimp culture project was identified in May 1981. A project preparation
report was available in May 1983, and this, together with a report on preliminary detailed design
by a local consultant, served as the basis for appraisal in October/November 1984. The project
was approved by IDA on January 14, 1986.
Objectives, Components and Costs (Section 3)
(ii)   The project aimed at intensifying the production of brackish water shrimp (Penaeus
Monodon) in the coastal areas, through the introduction of improved water management and
related shrimp culture practices. The project aimed primarily at generating foreign exchange
earnings and increasing incomes and economic activity in coastal rural areas.
(iii)  The project was also expected to strengthen fisheries administration and extension
services, initiate procedures on the basis of existing legislation for controlled salt water intake
in polder areas for the purpose of shrimp culture, modify land lease policies, improve capacity
utilization of the shrimp processing industry and improve marketing of shrimp. These objectives
were to be achieved by the provision of infrastructure to permit efficient water management in
about 7,000 ha of poldered area in Khulna and Cox's Bazar districts and the supply of high-
quality shrimp seed; development of an additional 2,500 ha through improved extension services
without public investment; supply of medium-term credit to shrimp farmers, traders, and
hatchery operators for on-farm works, marketing equipment and the establishment of hatcheries;
institutional support for the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of the Department of Fisheries
(DOF), and the Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB), and local and foreign training.
To assist GOB in the implementation of the project and for farm and hatchery design work, the
project provided technical assistance (TA). The project, phased over a five-year period, was



iii
estimated to cost Taka 1,299 million (US$36.7 million) and was to be financed through an IDA
Credit of US$22 million (SDR 20.6 million), a United Nations Development Program (UNDP)
grant of US$4.5 million for TA, and the rest by GOB, Bangladesh Bank (BB), Participating
Banks (PBs) and various investors.
Implementation Experience (Section 5)
(iv)   The Credit did not become effective until eight months after signature mainly because
of delays by GOB in meeting three of the six conditions of effectiveness: finalization of the
UNDP Project Document, the Participation Agreements between BB and PBs, and the Banking
Plan.
(v)   The project faced problems in the initial years, but by the time of Credit closure, one and
a half years behind schedule, most of the physical targets had been met (Part III Section 4).
Initial delays were largely due to problems associated with land acquisition; delays in civil works
procurement because of lengthy procedures and approvals; and late release of funds. Parallel
to this were the delays in the construction of hatcheries because of site selection problems and
the uncertainties on the size and viability of the hatcheries to be constructed. The construction
of the PIU Demonstration Farm and Training Centers (DFTCs) was also delayed because of the
site issue (para 5.12). In addition, the devastating cyclone of April 1991 caused damages to the
civil works in the Cox's Bazar area. Problems during implementation also emerged as a result
of the original weakness in project design, which concerned the approach to maintenance of
facilities, and of the short implementation period (paras 4.2 and 4.3)
(vi)  The construction works in the polders, planned to be completed in two years, extended
in most cases up to four years, with some works still remaining incomplete in three out of the
six polders (Part HI/Section 4B). With the exception of sub-standard compaction of earthfill in
embankments construction, the overall quality of civil works is satisfactory. In the case of PIU,
all planned civil works, except for the Khulna office and residential buildings, were completed.
The Khulna buildings could not be constructed because of delays in finalizing civil works
procurement (para 5.11). The progress on the construction of the project-financed, PIU-
managed hatcheries was also slow mainly due to site-related problems. The quality of the
construction work of the hatcheries is poor as evidenced by a number of design and engineering
flaws which need to be rectified in order to put the hatcheries into effective use (para 5.9).
Because of the delays in the construction of the hatcheries, two makeshift mini-hatcheries were
constructed to demonstrate the production technology and train PIU technical staff and private
sector operators (para 5.8). The credit component performed poorly because of the institutional
weaknesses in the country's credit system (para 5.10). The performance of the international
consulting firm, appointed by IDA under the UNDP grant, was mixed. The firm provided
satisfactory support to PIU in designing and implementing the extension program, establishing
and operating the makeshift hatcheries and providing technical advice on BWDB's infrastructure
works. However, the firm's support to the design and supervision of hatcheries was not
satisfactory.
(vii)  The final project cost is estimated to be about 75% of the appraisal estimate.
Infrastructure was the largest component representing 63 % of total project costs, and exceeding
the appraisal estimate by 19%. Institutional support to PIU and BWDB exceeded appraisal



iv
estimates by 11 %, however, the credit component at 5 % of the appraisal estimate was scarcely
utilized. Of the original IDA Credit of SDR 20.6 million (US$22 million), SDR 13.5 million
was disbursed and the remaining SDR 7.1 million was cancelled in October 1993.
Project Results (Section 6)
(viii) Overall, the project was largely successful in achieving the objectives envisaged at
appraisal. The area under shrimp production (including additional area) is 96 % of the appraisal
estimate and the average production per hectare has almost quadrupled as compared with pre-
project estimates (Annex 1, Table 1). The results of the two PIU-managed hatcheries
constructed under the project have not been satisfactory, and the attainment of the planned seven
million post-larvae per year from each hatchery seems unlikely (para 5.9). However, the mini-
hatcheries proved to be a success. Monodon Larvae were produced in a hatchery for the first
time in Bangladesh. The training covered under the project was diverse and the participants
found it very useful in upgrading their technical and administrative know-how. A major impact
was made under the project by the impressive work of the extension staff and the Non-
Govemment Organizations (NGOs), enabling the formation of farmer groups and carrying out
various welfare and income-generating activities. Farmers feel that the extension services
provided under the project helped them considerably in increasing shrimp production. The
project extension and training activities also helped the transfer of technology to areas outside
the project. The project participants were able to enjoy increased net incomes, and the project
had an impressive economic impact. Increased production helped in boosting the quantity of
exportable shrimps thus enhancing the country's foreign exchange earnings. In addition, it had
a significant impact on employment. It is estimated that the project will attain an economic rate
of return of slightly over 20% compared with 27% estimated at appraisal (Annex 1, Table 8).
Compliance with covenants, except that relating to cost recovery, was satisfactory (para 5.15).
Project Sustainability (Section 7)
(ix)   The present outlook for project sustainability is uncertain. Shrimp production can be
sustained at present levels, or even increased, if the public infrastructure (especially
embankments, regulators and canals) built under the project is properly maintained. The
likelihood of this being done through the BWDB is scant, and no funds have been made available
for this purpose through collection of water charges or budgetary allocations. However, because
of the strong financial viability of shrimp farming, the beneficiaries may take on responsibility
for necessary maintenance work if shrimp production levels start to drop as a result of
inadequate BWDB infrastructure maintenance. Government support is also necessary to maintain
the extension services. To ensure the sustainability of the demonstration farms and training
centers, these should be transferred immediately from the development budget, which was
exhausted after Credit closure, to the GOB revenue budget. As far as the hatcheries are
concerned, the design and engineering flaws identified should be rectified and the two hatcheries
operated on sound commercial practices. GOB's intention to sell or lease the hatcheries to the
private sector should be supported.



V
Flndings and Lessons Learned (Sections 9 and 10)
(x)   The project's success in achieving its objectives can be attributed to the project's simple
design which involved proven shrimp culture technology and a good extension and training
effort. The performance of the Borrower in carrying out its obligations was generally less than
adequate. A major problem was the delayed compliance with the cost recovery covenant
(compliance was achieved in February 1993 in contrast with December 31, 1987 as stipulated
in the Development Credit Agreement). Despite persistent reminders by IDA, there was
virtually no progress in achieving compliance until 1991 when IDA made Credit extensions
conditional on GOB achieving compliance with the covenant. The main lessons learnt are: details
of Operation and Maintenance (O&M) should be clearly addressed and agreed with all
participants at appraisal; a longer implementation period would have been more appropriate since
land tenure conflicts and long procedures for approval of contracts are common in Bangladesh;
projects which require group formation and social support programs benefit by involving NGOs;
appropriate specialist expertise (hatchery design specialist) should be included during IDA
supervision missions; selection of sites and preparation of detailed designs for the hatcheries and
the DFTCs should have been finalized at appraisal; and a well-planned extension and training
program could facilitate achievement of project objectives.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
(Credit No. 1651-BD)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name      :  Shrimp Culture Project
Credit No.           165 1-BD
RVP Unit             South Asia Region
Country              Bangladesh
Sector            :  Agriculture
Subsector         :  Fisheries
2.    Background
2.1    Bangladesh is one of the poorest countries in the world with a high density of population
and an annual population growth rate exceeding 2% over the last two decades. About 80% of
the population live in rural areas, 75% depend directly on agriculture for their livelihood and
nearly half of the rural households are landless. The development strategy of the Government
of Bangladesh (GOB) has therefore emphasized measures to control population growth, increase
food production and improve nutrition, alleviate poverty and generate employment through
human resources development and contain the external trade deficit through exports.
2.2    Bangladesh's agricultural sector, including fisheries, contributes about 36% of Gross
Domestic Product (GDP). The fisheries subsector contributes about 4% to Bangladesh's GDP
and 10% to agricultural GDP. Despite its relatively small contribution to the national and
agricultural GDP, the fisheries subsector is of considerable importance to Bangladesh's economy
because of its contribution to the national objectives of improving nutrition, income, employment
and foreign exchange earnings. The Land and Water Resources Study, completed by IDA in
1972, provided, inter alia, tentative proposals for accelerating development of the inland
fisheries subsector.  The 1983 IDA review of the fisheries subsector reemphasized the
development of inland fisheries and recommended development of culture-based fisheries in



2
larger inland water bodies, shrimp culture in coastal areas and carp culture in ponds. This
development strategy was confirmed in the "Draft Master Plan for Inland and Marine Fisheries
Development and Management," prepared by Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
States (FAO), which was later made public in March 1985.
2.3   IDA's involvement in support of Bangladesh's fisheries development began with the
financing of an aquaculture component under the Karnafuli Irrigation Project (Cr.605-BD),
followed by the signing of a Credit (Cr. 890-BD) for the Oxbow Lakes Fisheries Project (OLFP)
in April 1979. The OLFP introduced culture-based fisheries to oxbow lakes and had positive
implications for inland fisheries development throughout the country. During the course of
supervision of OLFP, IDA assisted GOB to identify a coastal aquaculture project with emphasis
on shrimp culture. The Shrimp Culture Project preparation report of 1983, and the detailed
engineering designs prepared by local consultants financed by UNDP in early 1984, formed the
basis for IDA's appraisal in October/November 1984. Subsequently, towards mid-1990, IDA
approved a Credit (Cr.2146-BD) for the ongoing Third Fisheries Project to support stocking of
flood plains, coastal (shrimp) aquaculture for export and introduction of culture-based fisheries
in private ponds (Part III/Section 1).
3.     Project Objectives and Description
3.1    Project Objectives. The project aimed at intensifying the production of brackish water
shrimp (mostly Penaeus Monodon) in the coastal area of Bangladesh through introduction of
improved shrimp culture technology consisting of improved water management and related
shrimp culture practices. Through increasing shrimp production, the project aimed at increasing
foreign exchange earnings through export of shrimp and improving incomes, economic activity
and nutrition in coastal areas.  The project was also expected to strengthen fisheries
administration and extension services, initiate procedures on the basis of existing legislation for
controlled salt water intake in poldered areas for the purpose of shrimp culture, modify public
land lease policies, improve capacity utilization of the shrimp processing industry and improve
marketing of shrimp.
3.2    Project Description. To achieve the above objectives, the project provided for:
Infrastructure Development
(a) Construction of embankments and water control structures which would permit
more efficient water management in about 7,000 ha of poldered areas in Khulna and
Cox's Bazar districts.
(b) Development of 2,500 ha of additional areas for shrimp culture, in the same two
districts, through extension services, training and credit without public investments.
(c) Construction of two shrimp hatcheries to supply high-quality shrimp seed, one each
in Khulna and Cox's Bazar districts.



3
Credit
(d) Supply of medium-term credit to shrimp farmers, traders and hatchery operators for
financing on-farm investments, marketing equipment and private hatchery
investments.
Institutional Support
(e) Financing of buildings, equipment, incremental staff salaries and incremental
operating costs for the Department of Fisheries (DOF) and the Bangladesh Water
Development Board (BWDB), in order to strengthen their ability to implement and
monitor the project.
(f) Construction of two Demonstration Farms and Training Centers (DFTCs), one each
in Khulna and Cox's Bazar districts, to demonstrate improved shrimp farming
techniques to fish farmers and extension staff.
Technical Assistance (TA)
(g) Consulting services to assist the DOF Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in shrimp
farming techniques, including engineering works and hatchery designs, project
management and coordination; training of shrimp farmers and extension officers;
and providing fellowships for Subject Matter Specialists and PIU staff.
3.3    The project, phased over a five-year period, was estimated to cost Taka 1,299 million
(US$36.7 million) with land acquisition, civil works, equipment and vehicles accounting for 44%
of the total cost and credit for on-farm works, private hatcheries and marketing equipment
another 34%, the balance of the cost being for TA, incremental staff salaries, and O&M costs.
The project cost of US$36.7 million was to be financed by an IDA Credit of US$22 million
(SDR 20.6 million), a UNDP grant of US$4.5 million for TA, a GOB contribution of US$4.5
million, credit from Bangladesh Bank (BB) and Participating Banks (PBs) of US$3.8 million,
and contributions by various investors totalling US$1.9 million.
4.     Project Design and Organization
4.1    Project Design. The project concept and design were generally appropriate and timely.
The project followed two previous IDA Credits to the subsector (para 2.3); its strategy was in
conformity with the 1983 IDA subsector review and the FAO Master Plan for the subsector
(para 2.2); and it was formulated after a series of discussions, initiated as far back as 1979,
between GOB and IDA regarding the development of coastal aquaculture. The areas selected
for shrimp culture development were appropriate and suitable for extensive shrimp culture,
without adverse effects on existing land use patterns. The proposed shrimp culture technology
was simple and could easily be understood by all the parties involved in the project. Shrimp
culture was to be carried out in rotation with paddy cultivation (Khulna District) or in rotation
with salt (Cox's Bazar District) or with shrimp monoculture (Rampur Polder in Cox's Bazar
District).



4
4.2    However, the project design did not detail the approach to Operation and Maintenance
(O&M) of the completed civil works. The responsibilities of the implementing agencies and
farmers in O&M of facilities were briefly outlined at appraisal. Also, detailed activities by the
respective agencies and the farmers, including the type of maintenance required, frequency and
costs, were not spelled out or explained to the implementing agencies and the ultimate
beneficiaries. Omission to do so resulted in (a) utilization of the O&M funds for other purposes,
and (b) delay in drawing up an effective O&M plan and mechanisms to implement the plan
during the operational phases.
4.3    Another design weakness concerned the project implementation period. Given the
bureaucratic delays in land acquisition and award of contracts, which are common problems in
Bangladesh, the planned five-year project implementation period was optimistic. (para 8.1).
4.4    Project Organization. The project was implemented by PIU of DOF, BWDB, BB and
PBs, belonging to three ministries (Ministries of Fisheries and Livestock; Irrigation, Water
Development and Flood Control; and Finance), with the overall responsibility of project
coordination given to PIU and the Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock (MOFL). BWDB had
the responsibility to implement the water supply and drainage component of the project. Two
banks - Bangladesh Krishi Bank and Sonali Bank - were selected as PBs to channel the project
credit. Participation Agreements were signed between them and the Bangladesh Bank (BB),
setting out the terms and conditions for their participation. In 1989, in order to improve credit
coverage, a third PB, the Agrani Bank, was added.
5.     Proiect Imblementation
5.1    Credit Effectiveness. The Credit was approved by IDA's Board on January 14, 1986,
signed on February 14, 1986 and became effective on October 30, 1986, after three extensions
mainly to enable GOB to finalize (a) the UNDP Project Document for providing TA, (b) the
Participation Agreements between BB and PBs, and (c) the Banking Plan.
5.2   Implementation Schedule. The project was scheduled to be completed by June 30,
1991 and the Credit was to have been closed by December 31, 1991. However, the Credit
closure was extended by one and a half years to June 30, 1993 to facilitate completion of the
remaining physical targets of the project.
5.3    BWDB Infrastructure Works. The performance under the infrastructure component
was not satisfactory. The construction works in the polders, planned to be completed in two
years, extended in most cases up to four years, with some works still remaining incomplete in
three out of the six polders (Part Im/Section 4B). The contributory factors were delays in civil
works procurement because of lengthy procedures and approvals; late release of funds which
affected specifically land acquisition and contractors' performance;  changes to detailed
engineering designs to accommodate revised farm sizes in one polder (Rampur); lack of
coordination between implementing agencies at the initial stages of project implementation;
limited period, about one month, available for construction of internal embankments and the
canal system in salt/shrimp areas; and damage caused by the April 1991 devastating cyclone.
All these problems were mainly responsible for extension of the original Credit closing date by
18 months to June 30, 1993 (para 5.2).



5
5.4    The quality of civil works was generally satisfactory. Concrete works were of an
acceptable standard, the regulators were well constructed, and the main embankments were
constructed to the required design profile. However, there are a number of defects that need
urgent rectification, including unsatisfactory compaction of earthfill, excessive slopes in some
reaches of embankments, and incorrect seating of control gates at some regulators.
5.5    The project had a provision for O&M during construction, with funds to be used for
operations and preventive and periodic maintenance of civil works as and when the maintenance
commitments of contractors were fulfilled. However, the bulk of these funds were exhausted
by the third year of the project period on works unrelated to O&M, such as providing shrimp
farms with temporary wooden intakes at Rampur because the infrastructure works were delayed.
At Credit closure, infrastructure works showed signs of deterioration (para 5.4) with the only
reported maintenance being repair work on gates. Operational activities during the project period
were limited to gate regulation, which was carried out by a member of the O&M Sub-
Committee'.
5.6    At Credit closure, no firm O&M plan for BWDB works, with costs and responsibilities
for implementation during the operational phase of the project, had been prepared and no
provision was allowed for this work under the revenue budget of the Annual Development
Program (ADP) for 1993/94. Given that the water levy is to be based on full recovery of O&M
costs incurred by the Government, a careful assessment of the maintenance work that could be
carried out by farmers should be made. The PCR mission had discussions with BWDB field staff
on an approach to be adopted. Guidelines discussed with BWDB field staff are given in Annex
2. If funds are not made available to carry out regular maintenance, the essential infrastructure
is likely to deteriorate to such an extent that a rehabilitation program will be needed in a number
of years to make the facilities operable again.
5.7    Additional Area Development.  As against the appraisal target of 2,500 ha, an
additional 2,965 ha (1,875 ha in Cox's Bazar and 1,090 ha in Khulna) has been developed under
the project, mainly through extension support and the promotion of technological improvement
due to demonstration farms. The services rendered have assisted farmers to increase yields by
about 75 %.
5.8    PIU Shrimp Hatcheries. The construction of two PIU-managed shrimp hatcheries,
each with an annual production capacity of about ten million post larvae (PL), was financed
under the project. However, these faced considerable problems during pre-construction and
operational stages, with construction commencing about three years later than the appraisal
estimate (Part III/Section 4B). The delay was mainly due to the unsuitability of sites and
uncertainties about the size and viability of hatcheries. The technical suitability of the first
Cox's Bazar site, selected by PIU, was subsequently in doubt, while a second site was
considered unsuitable on a long-term basis because of the unstable beach which could create
The overall control of polder operations is by the O&M Committee. To facilitate operations at
the grass roots level, PIU and the shrimp farmers agreed to form O&M Sub-Committees at
each regulator. The Committees were also to assist BWDB in the collection of direct recovery
charges from participating farmers.



6
costly problems of water intake. In the Khulna district, the salinity levels were unsuitable for
the production of Monodon Larvae, the main species to be grown under the project. These
problems led to a decision by MOFL/PIU to construct two makeshift mini-hatcheries to test and
demonstrate the production technology, identify operational problems and initiate training of PIU
technical staff and private sector operators.
5.9    The mini-hatcheries proved to be a success, with Monodon Larvae produced in a
hatchery for the first time in Bangladesh. Encouraged by the success of the mini-hatcheries,
MOFL/PIU decided to proceed with the construction of the two project hatcheries. Two suitable
sites were eventually identified and the construction of the hatcheries started in March 1990,
under the supervision of the project-appointed technical consultants who also designed them.
The Cox's Bazar hatchery was completed in September 1991 and the Khulna hatchery in March
1992. Although the capacity of each hatchery was designed to produce ten million PL per
annum, the hatcheries were planned to operate at 70% (i.e., seven million PL) of their capacity
from Year four onwards, to take into account the progressive experience to be gained by the
operators and gradual improvement in broadstock collection. Additionally, the estimated cost
of the hatcheries was about 50% lower than the appraisal estimate. Despite the experience
gained in constructing and operating the mini-hatcheries, the quality of the construction work
of the main hatcheries was substandard as evidenced by a number of design and engineering
flaws which resulted in leaks in some of the water tanks, cracks in the outdoor concrete larval
rearing tanks, poor drainage from rearing tanks, insufficient indoor light for optimum larvae
production, electrical, heating and aeration problems. In fact, the Hatchery Specialist, hired
during the extended period of TA, found it necessary to revise the design of the main hatchery
building facilities considerably in order to put the hatcheries into effective use. Because of
disputes with the main TA consultants and the lack of funds, some repair works have still not
been initiated (Para 12.1).
5.10   Credit. The performance of the credit component was poor. Disbursement of on-farm
investment and hatchery loans was minimal2. None of the funds provided for marketing loans
were disbursed. Overall, about 5 % of the funds originally allocated for credit operations under
the project were disbursed (Part III/Section 5). Disbursement was poor because of the delayed
start of the water development infrastructure essential for on-farm investment, the inability of
many would-be Borrowers to provide collateral required by the PBs and the bureaucratic and
cumbersome loan processing procedures. Additionally, many of the would-be Borrowers were
either defaulters under previous loans or did not have correct and up-to-date title documents to
the land. These credit issues were inherent in the agricultural credit system and also prevailed
at appraisal. However, because of the limited scope of the credit component and its focus on
a few small geographical areas, the project was not used as a vehicle to remedy the problems
of the agricultural credit system in the country. These weaknesses were to have been addressed
in an IDA-assisted proposed Second Agricultural Credit Project, which, however, was not
eventually processed by IDA because of the government's decision to write-off agricultural loans
2   In the case of hatchery loans, two out of the planned nine loans were disbursed. However, three
other hatcheries were constructed by entrepreneurs using non-project funds but all received technical
support from the project.



7
up to Tk 5,000 in 1991. The Shrimp Culture Project was to have disbursed subloans under a
supervised credit scheme. However, without addressing the credit issues, a supervised credit
scheme on its own was not sufficient to achieve the project's credit objectives. Since shrimp
production has increased over the years, poor disbursement of the credit component has not
generally hampered developments envisaged under the project. The farmers had access to credit
from informal sources, such as processing plants and well-to-do individuals. The terms and
conditions suited the Borrowers and the repayment was usually in kind (produce).
5.11   Institutional Support. With the exception of the PIU office at Khulna and residential
buildings, the implementation of other items of institutional support (DOF's other offices and
buildings, equipment and vehicles, incremental staffing, etc.) generally proceeded as planned.
The Khulna buildings could not be constructed because of delays in finalizing the civil works
construction arrangements. The buildings are now to be constructed with civil works funds
under the IDA-assisted Third Fisheries Project, the Asian Development Bank-assisted Second
Aquaculture Project, and GOB's own resources.
5.12   Two DFTCs, one each at Khulna and Cox's Bazar, have been established, as planned,
for the purpose of training fisheries officers and operators of shrimp farms, and to demonstrate
improved techniques in shrimp farming to the public. However, as in the case of hatcheries,
the construction work was delayed because of the difficulties encountered in the selection of
appropriate sites to accommodate all the facilities. Construction work took 18-24 months more
than envisaged at appraisal, delaying the commissioning and startup of full DFTC activities to
1992 in Khulna and to 1993 in Cox's Bazar. However, pending completion of the facilities, the
DFTC activities were conducted in PIU offices and in demonstration farms of shrimp farmers
in the polders. The demonstration farms, as completed, include nine nursery ponds and nine
grow-out ponds in a total culture area of around 10.6 ha. These facilities have been built to
acceptable designs and standards but their operations have been hindered or virtually stopped
after Credit closure because of lack of operating funds.
5.13   Training. Under the project, extensive training of PIU and NGO staff, shrimp farmers
and private sector hatchery and nursery operators was carried out. In Cox's Bazar, 546 courses
were conducted by the Extension Unit, 17 courses by the Hatchery Unit and 96 courses by the
DFTC Unit. In Khulna, the comparative figures were 991, 20 and 60 respectively (Part
III/Section 4A). The areas of training imparted were diverse, including shrimp farm site
selection, shrimp culture and hatchery management, nursery pond operations, shrimp harvesting
and marketing, fry collection, water management, predator control, post-harvest technology, use
of feed and feed preparation, credit, and land use regulations and taxes. The participants in the
training found it very useful, and the training formed a key element in the extension efforts of
the project which resulted in boosting private sector interest in brackish water shrimp
production. However, the training activities have come to a standstill after Credit closure for
want of operating funds. Between 1987 and 1992, 22 overseas study tours and 49 training
courses were offered to the staff of MOFL/PIU, PBs and shrimp farmers. These overseas
programs had mixed success, as some of the GOB staff who benefitted by such programs were
not able to continue to use their skills in the project due to subsequent transfer from the project.
5.14   Project-Related Technical Assistance. The technical assistance component consisted
of assistance to PIU in the fields of shrimp farming, hatchery and farm designs, construction



8
supervision, engineering/hydrology, project management, training, social and rural development
aspects. This component was financed as a grant by UNDP and executed by IDA. An
international consulting firm, in association with an NGO, provided the technical, management,
supervision and social support to PIU. A total of 120 man-months of technical expertise were
utilized, consisting of a team leader, a training and extension specialist, a hatchery expert, an
aquaculture engineer/aquaculturist and around ten short-term experts. The first phase of this
assistance ended on December 31, 1991, and the services of the consulting firm were not
extended as only a limited number of consultants, were needed in the next phase. In line with
the proposed extension of the overall project, UNDP extended the technical assistance project
to June 30, 1993 and, during this extended phase, IDA, in consultation with the PIU, recruited
a Hatchery Specialist, a local consulting firm to prepare an environmental impact study and the
UNDP Terminal Report, and the NGO which participated in the first phase. In addition, funds
were provided to PIU for local training based on an agreed training plan. This technical
assistance arrangement proved successful. In addition to the above technical assistance, local
consultancy services were procured for detailed engineering designs of civil works for the
polders in Cox's Bazar (performance of the consulting services is described in para 12.1).
5.15   Cost Recovery. The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) required GOB to take all
necessary measures, including the passage of a legislation by December 31, 1987, to set
recovery charges which would enable full recovery of investment and O&M costs of the
embankments and regulators constructed or rehabilitated under the project. The recovery was
to commence from July 1, 1988, and was to be achieved through a direct levy on beneficiaries
and an export cess on shrimp, applicable to non-project producers as well as to beneficiaries.
The direct levy was to cover full O&M and 9% of investments costs, and the export cess was
to recover the remaining investments costs. This original covenant was not fulfilled. More
importantly, IDA eventually agreed that the original cost recovery proposals were inappropriate.
In late 1991, the Cabinet decided that it would not be appropriate to impose an export cess and
recommended that cost recovery be limited to 100% recovery of O&M costs through a direct
levy by BWDB. In essence, the same provisions for cost recovery by BWDB would apply
whether farmers produce shrimp or rice. IDA agreed to the proposed modification of the
covenant. In principle, it was considered inappropriate to ask all shrimp producers, the majority
of whom are not project beneficiaries, to pay for project construction costs. Moreover, the
export cess was considered to be contrary to IDA's general desires to promote taxation policies
which reduce anti-export bias and encourage export growth. The decision trend in world market
price of shrimp (which had declined by about 35% from the value assumed in the 1985 SAR)
added to the arguments for modification. Once modification in the covenant was agreed in
principle, IDA made extension of the Closing Date conditional upon progress on this issue. To
maintain pressure on this issue four Closing Date extensions were used for a total extension
period of 18 months, as the cost recovery legislation was submitted to Parliament, was approved,
and appropriate implementing rules were drafted and made effective (in February 1993). The
actual cost recovery by BWDB has yet to start, since only preliminary arrangements, such as
appointing staff for assessment are in place. The recovery issue is being pursued by IDA under
the Third Fisheries Project. For this recovery purpose, some guidelines are given in Annex 2
of this report.
5.16   Project Costs and Flnancing. At completion, total project costs were estimated to be
slightly over US$27.0 million or about 75% of the appraisal estimate (Part III/Section 5A).



9
Infrastructure was by far the largest component, costing almost US$17.0 million or 63 % of total
project costs and exceeding the appraisal estimate by 19%. Infrastructure costs include about
US$1.0 million of expenditure incurred but not yet paid to the contractors and therefore not
reimbursed by IDA. Institutional support to DOF and BWDB was the next major item of
expenditure, costing almost US$7.0 million and exceeding the appraisal estimate by almost 11 %.
As already noted (para 5.10), the credit component was largely unused, accounting for only
US$0.56 million as compared to the SAR estimate of US$12.2 million. IDA financed almost
US$18.0 million (equivalent to SDR 13.5 million) of the project costs (Part III/Section 5B).
This represents about 65% of the IDA Credit and the remaining 35%, or SDR 7.1 million, was
eventually cancelled (Part m Section 3).
6.    Project Results
6.1    General. Albeit with a delay of about two years, the project has been largely successful
in achieving its objectives.
6.2    Shrimp Production. The total area brought under shrimp production was 9,145 ha, or
96% of the appraisal estimate. Of this, 6,180 ha, or 88% of the appraisal estimate of 7,000 ha,
is the main project area developed with public investment, while 2,965 ha, or 118% of the
appraisal estimate of 2,500 ha, is the additional area developed without public investment.
Average production per ha has almost quadrupled to 262 kg/ha compared to 65 kg/ha in 1987.
As shown in Annex 1/Table 1, there have been more output increases in Khulna where average
production per ha has increased five-fold from 68 kg to over 344 kg. Although some individual
farms obtained peaks ranging between 410-470 kg/ha, production in other farms has still been
far below the average because of high mortality in both nurseries and grow-out ponds, low
stocking density and irregular water exchange. Average production at full development in the
main project area is expected to rise to 400 kg/ha for shrimp monoculture and to 350 kg/ha for
shrimp/paddy or shrimp/salt rotation. The SAR and PCR estimates of incremental production
are given in Part III/Section 6A.
6.3    Hatchery Production. The performance of the PIU hatchery component was mixed.
The hatcheries were generally successful in demonstrating the production technology through
training of PIU staff and private sector operators. In fact, the hatchery training courses inspired
entrepreneurs to establish their own nurseries and hatcheries (paras 5.8 and 5.9).  The
production results of the hatcheries, however, were not satisfactory for a number of reasons such
as design and engineering deficiencies, which need to be rectified, availability of broodstock,
lack of adequate and timely operating funds, partial damages caused by the April 1991 cyclone
and mortality of fry caused by unhygienic operating practices. The highest production of PL
in Cox's Bazar was 0.60 million in 1992 and in Khulna it was 0.32 million in 1993, in contrast
with 1.61 million and 4.0 million respectively estimated in the financial and economic models
of the hatcheries prepared by PIU with the assistance of the project consultants. However, even
in normal conditions, it is doubtful whether the hatcheries will be able to attain the 7.0 million
PL production target (para 5.9).
6.4    Transfer of Technology. On-farm extension activities proceeded satisfactorily and
should be commended. This is reflected in the increased trend in shrimp production activities
in all the polders and increased additional area which benefitted from the project. The impact



10
of extension activities, demonstration farms, and training programs (carried out during the
project period) on the shrimp culture farming methods was not limited to the project area. As
a result of the project, an extensive farming system has spread throughout the coastal belt.
Farmer-extension staff relationships have been well established and a large number of farmers
have been trained in nursery and on-farm management. The ability to maintain this essential
level of service is being undermined by the fact that extension staff have not received their
salaries since the project was completed. A similar situation is noted in the demonstration farms
and training centers.  In addition, the social development activities carried out by the
participating NGO were successful in forming farmers' groups, carrying out of various welfare
programs, savings mobilization, and getting families, including women, involved in other
income-generating activities.
6.5    Financial and Economic Results. Through increased production levels, the project
participants enjoy increased net incomes. As shown in Annex l/Table 4, net farm incomes per
ha with the project are Tk 36,000 for shrimp and paddy rotation, Tk 45,000 for shrimp and salt
rotation, and Tk 53,000 for shrimp monoculture. These net incomes are lower than the
appraisal estimates in 1993 constant prices because of comparatively higher input costs and lower
output prices, particularly for paddy.
6.6    The economic impact of the project is highly satisfactory. Not only has there been an
increase in personal incomes and, therefore, in economic conditions of shrimp farmers, but also
there has been a boost to the quantity of exportable3 shrimp and fish, thereby enhancing the
country's foreign exchange earnings.  The project also has had a significant impact on
employment. Over 4,000 farm families benefitted from employing almost 30,000 people (see
Part III/Section 6A). There was also employment created in the construction industry as a result
of the infrastructural activities of the project. The number of such jobs cannot be quantified.
Other unquantifiable economic benefits included improved nutrition for the local population
because of increased availability of shrimp and fish products and a better environmental
ambience for the shrimp farming communities because of improved infrastructure for the
polders.
6.7    The re-estimated economic rate of return (ERR) is slightly over 20% (Part III/Section
6C and Annex 1/Table 8). This is seven percent below the appraisal estimate of 27% mainly
because of the delayed completion of infrastructure which meant that most project benefits have
lagged by 2 or 3 years compared to the appraisal estimate.
6.8    Environmental Impact. There are no negative environmental effects caused by the
project. The land use pattern and the ecological balance have not changed as a result of project
interventions. On the contrary, some of the adverse effects which existed under pre-project
conditions, such as water logging and illegal and uncontrolled cuts in embankments for the
installation of sub-standard inlet structures, have been minimized or eliminated by project
interventions. No mangrove forests have been destroyed as a result of the project. The findings
3      Shrimp exports increased from 16,200 tons in 1987 to 19,200 tons in 1993: it is estimated that
at least 40% of the incremental exports (or 1,200 tons) due to the project.



11
of the study to assess the impact of shrimp culture on the environment, carried out under the
project by local consultants, endorse this assessment.
7.     Project Sustainability
7.1    The present outlook for project sustainability is uncertain. Shrimp production can be
sustained at current levels--and may even be increased--provided the water management
infrastructure built by the project is properly maintained. Currently, the prospects of this being
done by BWDB are not good. No funds have been allocated for BWDB to undertake
maintenance activities nor are mechanisms in place for collection of water charges. However,
given the demonstrated strong viability of shrimp farming, the beneficiaries themselves may take
on necessary maintenance work once shrimp production levels begin to be affected by failing
infrastructure.
7.2    Government support is also necessary to maintain the extension services. To ensure the
sustainability of the DFTCs, these should be transferred immediately from the development
budget, provisions for which were exhausted after Credit Closing, to the GOB revenue budget.
7.3    As far as the project provided hatcheries are concerned, these cannot continue to be run
by civil servants under government procedures. It is, however, the intention of GOB to sell or
lease out these facilities to the private sector which would be a correct step. To that end,
however, the design and engineering flaws identified by the IDA supervision missions and the
Hatchery Specialist during the extended technical assistance phase should be rectified, and the
two hatcheries operated at least for a short period on sound commercial practices. Sufficient
funding should be made available for O&M of the facilities and for conducting planned training
activities. Import demand and prices for shrimp on the international markets remain steady, with
a slight increase in prices in 1993. It is foreseen that the future market would get more active
with an increase in price for most of the shrimp species. Export of project output should not
face any demand constraints, provided hygienic standards and international specifications are
maintained.
8.    IDA Performance
8.1   IDA assistance under the project has resulted in providing a strong base to support and
accelerate the development of shrimp culture in the country. Although IDA performance was
generally good throughout the project cycle, there were some weaknesses.  Given the
bureaucratic delays in land acquisition and awards of contracts, which were common problems
in the country, a less optimistic approach should have been taken in fixing the completion date
of the Credit. Site selections and detailed designs for the project hatcheries should have been
completed prior to project appraisal, particularly due to the fact that there was sufficient time
lag between project preparation and appraisal. These designs were prepared during
implementation, and the disagreement on the sites as well as the uncertainties on the type and
size of facilities and their viability clearly indicate that this question was not analyzed in detail
during preparation and appraisal.
8.2    Supervision of the project by IDA was at regular intervals of six months during the first
three years of implementation, and thereafter on a yearly basis until closure of the project.



12
Because of staffing constraints, a supervision mission planned for May/June 1992 could not be
carried out. During the later period of the project, the Bank's Resident Mission was fully
responsible for the supervision, and its regular involvement with project work, constructive
dialogues and rapport with the executing agencies were strong features, yielding several
institutional benefits to these agencies. IDA also maintained staff continuity during the nine
missions it fielded. However, there were a few shortcomings. Most supervision missions did
not include expertise to cover technical aspects of shrimp culture and hatchery designs, for
which the missions heavily depended on the technical staff of the project consultants firm (para
12.1), whose services were not extended after the first phase. Had there been a shrimp hatchery
design specialist on these missions, most of the problems related to these hatcheries could have
been resolved at a very early stage. The technical advice given by supervision missions on the
construction of civil works was appreciated.
9.     Borrower Performance
9.1    The performance of the Borrower in carrying out its obligations was poor. The project
start-up was delayed because the Borrower took eight months to meet the Credit effectiveness
conditions (para 5.1). During implementation a major problem was the delayed compliance with
the cost recovery covenant, which was reviewed at appraisal and agreed at Credit negotiations.
There were also problems, such as delays in land acquisition and civil works procurement, and
delayed release of funds, all of which resulted in delays in completion of civil works. Further,
many of the implementation constraints could have been resolved expeditiously if the senior
management of BWDB and PIU/DOF and the concerned Ministries had intervened at the very
early stages. Their interventions were more pronounced at the later stages and resulted, for
example, in resolving the land acquisition case in the Cox's Bazar area. The Borrower also
failed to provide funds in the revenue budget for post-implementation O&M; as a result, the
work in the hatcheries and demonstration farms has come to a virtual halt, and BWDB is unable
to carry out any maintenance on the civil works and regulators constructed under the project.
The shortage of funds is likely to undermine the gains achieved under the project. On the
positive side, however, PIU's performance was impressive in terms of achieving project
objectives through extension and training efforts.
10.    Lessons Learned
10.1   The main lessons learned from the experience of this project are:
(a) The O&M program during construction and after project completion, including
financing of these activities, should have been well defined at appraisal, discussed
with beneficiaries and the Government, and agreed in terms of responsibilities. The
involvement of the beneficiaries in the early stages would lead to farmer
communities being aware of their responsibilities and taldng an active part in
maintaining the project-funded investments. Further, BWDB should fulfil its
commitment in carrying out regular O&M, without which the investment would be
lost and benefits not sustained.
(b) The planned five-year project implementation period was short.  Given the
bureaucratic delays in land acquisition and award of contracts, which are all



13
common to Bangladesh, a longer implementation period would have been
appropriate.
(c) The NGO's role in organizing and motivating shrimp farmers facilitated the
achievement of project objectives. The design of the IDA-assisted Third Fisheries
Project has provided for such NGO support.
(d) During project supervision, expertise appropriate to project works should be
included in the missions. In the present case, the inclusion of an experienced
shrimp culture/hatchery design specialist during supervisions would have been very
beneficial.
(e) Site selection and detailed designs for the project hatcheries and DFTCs should
have been completed prior to appraisal, particularly because there was sufficient
time lag between project preparation and appraisal.
(f) A well-planned extension and training program greatly facilitates achievement of
project objectives.
11.    Project Relationship
11.1   The achievements of the project, despite initial problems, are the result of cordial
working relationships between IDA and the Borrower and between the various participating
groups, including the extension services and the NGOs. Through its long association with
Bangladesh fisheries (first assistance in mid-1970s), IDA has developed a good relationship with
the key institutions involved in the subsector. The reasonable continuity of IDA staff involved
with project supervision, in particular during the period when the Resident Mission took over
supervision responsibilities, further strengthened the IDA-Borrower relationship and helped find
acceptable solutions to problems encountered during project implementation--in particular,
reaching a solution to the cost recovery covenant which initially had some disagreements. Early
in project implementation, the relations between the staff of BWDB and PIU were somewhat
strained, but over the years they became cordial. IDA's long association with the subsector and
the Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock led to financing of the Third Fisheries Project in 1990,
followed by a detailed Fisheries Sector Review in 1991.
12.    Consulting Services
12.1   The performance of the international consulting firm, appointed by IDA under the
UNDP grant, was mixed (para 5.14). The firm provided satisfactory support to PIU in
designing and implementing the extension program, establishing and operating the makeshift
hatcheries and providing technical advice on BWDB's infrastructure works. However, the firm's
support to the design and supervision of the PIU hatcheries was not satisfactory, as is apparent
by the difficulties encountered in operating the hatcheries (para 5.9).  Because of this
unsatisfactory performance, payments on the final invoices submitted by the firm to PIU have
been held up until all repairs to the facilities are satisfactorily completed.  The detailed
engineering designs for the civil works of polders in Cox's Bazar were carried out by a local
consulting firm. There were initial problems because of protracted bureaucratic delays in



14
contract negotiations, but the assignment was satisfactorily completed within the contractual
period. The performance of the NGO was effective in promoting beneficiary participation in
the project.
13.   Project Documentation and Data
13.1   The SAR, the DCA and the Project Proforma provided a useful framework for GOB and
IDA during project implementation. Progress reporting by both PIU and BWDB was regular
and the quality of reporting was good. Furthermore, adequate information to finalize this PCR
was contained in IDA supervision reports, which were very comprehensive, and in other project
documents and correspondence available at the Bank, PIU and BWDB. The terminal report of
the UNDP-financed technical assistance has not yet been submitted to GOB. A GOB project
completion report constituted a useful input into the preparation of the PCR.



15
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
(Credit No. 1651-BD)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.     Bank's Performance
1.1    The performance of the World Bank was satisfactory. The project problems were
generally resolved in the bi-monthly meetings between the World Bank (RMB) and implementing
agencies. During the implementation of the project, constructive discussions were made with
the implementing agencies for the better performance of civil work and TA component funded
by UNDP. Suggestions were given to Department of Fisheries (DOF) in preparing the Project
Completion Report (PCR).
2.     Borrower's Performance
2.1    DOF, Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) and Bangladesh Bank (BB) were
the main implementing agencies of the project. The project was revised because of price
escalation, delay in civil works and delay in land acquisition. Also, because of the time required
to complete the remaining construction works by the DOF and the BWDB, the project period
was extended (para 4.1). BWDB could not complete the work, among others, due to delay in
release of fund as per Annual Development Program (ADP) provision. After project completion
in June 1993, farmers have been trained in the Teknaf Demonstration Farm and Training Centers
(DFTCs) under the Bangladesh Aquaculture and Fisheries Research Unit (BAFRU) fund. In
order to recover the O&M cost, GOB has already promulgated Acts and Regulations. BWDB
now plans to collect O&M costs from the beneficiaries. The performance of the credit
component was not satisfactory, because of some difficult credit procedures. Because of the
project, production of shrimp and export earning have increased significantly. The extension
and training activities, however contributed to achieving project objectives. After completion
of the project in June 1993, both the agencies (DOF and BWDB) had submitted separate Project
Concept Paper (PCP) to the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) for the completion of remaining
works. GOB has taken initiative to provide funds in the ADP of 1994-95 for the completion of
remaining works.
2.2    The completed project is now under the process of being transferred to the revenue
budget of GOB and is expected to be transferred on or before June 1994. Pending transfer to
revenue budget, GOB has allocated a fund of Tk 10 million to meet up the expenditures for
salary and honorarium of officers and staff and for operation and maintenance of the hatcheries,
extension and DFTC. GOB is also sanctioning Tk 0.5 million as revolving fund in connection
with the running of the hatcheries properly.



16
2.3    For better management and coordination among the different agencies associated with
shrimp farming, GOB has recently decided to set up a Shrimp Culture Board to promote
development of shrimp culture. In the meantime a Shrimp Cell has been set up in the
Department of Fisheries. This Cell has already started work. The experience so far achieved
from the shrimp culture project, will be used in the activities of the Cell. The purpose of the
Shrimp Cell is to provide culture techniques and management support and all types of
information to the people who are directly and indirectly associated with shrimp farming. The
interested shrimp farmers and entrepreneurs have started to contact the Shrimp Cell to get
necessary information and advice on shrimp and shrimp farming. It is expected that the
identification and selection of semi-intensive shrimp culture area and shrimp hatchery zone in
the Cox'z Bazar and Khulna region will be completed by June 1994. In the meantime, the site
selection committee formed for this purpose, has already submitted its report to GOB.
2.4    A committee has also been formed by GOB formulate recommendations in connection
with the construction of dykes and sluice gates by BWDB in the shrimp culture areas.
2.5    The first meeting of the committee was held on 25.4.94 under the chairmanship of the
Director General of the Department of Fisheries. It is expected that the committee will submit
a report to GOB for future development of the shrimp farming areas.
3.     Lessons Learne
The lessons learned are as follows:
3.1    O&M of dykes, sluice gates should be undertaken from the normal budget of BWDB.
3.2    The land acquisition procedure should be more easier for the implementation of project.
3.3    BWDB should take immediate initiative for collection of cost recovery for the proper
maintenance of sluice gates and dykes.
3.4    As per ADP provision fund release should be timely.
4.     Relationship between the Bank and the Borrower
4.1    During the implementation of the Shrimp Culture Project there was a very good
relationship between the Bank and the Borrower. The Borrower got all types of support in
resolving both technical and financial problems. To complete the project in full shapes, the
Bank was flexible and extended the project period by one and a half years.
5.     Performance of Co-Financier
There was UNDP grant for payment of consultancy fee and training allowances. The
UNDP grant was very much essential and helpful for proper execution of the project.



17
PROJECT COMPLION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SHRIuM CULTURE PROJECT
(Credit No. 1651-BD)
PART m1: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.      Related IDA Credits
Loan/Credit   Purpose                    Year of    Status             Comments
Title                                    Approval
Karnafuli      Increase food crops,      1976        Completed in      PPAR
Irrigation     primarily rice, and assess            December 1984,   Nov. 1986
Project        impact of irrigation and             four years after
(Cr.605-BD)    flood control projects on            the original
fisheries.                            Credit closing
date.
Rural          Rehabilitate derelict     1976        Completed in      PPAR
Development I ponds, organization of                 December 1981,   Nov. 1986
Project        Thana fishery                        two and a half
(Cr.631-BD)   cooperatives, training                 years after the
and technical assistance.             original Credit
closing date.
Oxbow Lakes  Develop underexploited      1979        Completed in      PPAR
Fisheries      oxbow lakes to increase               June 1986, two    June 1989
Project        fish production, improve              years after the
(Cr.890-BD)   fishermen's income,                    original Credit
provide good quality fish             closing date.
seed and fingerlings, and
train DOF staff.
Third Fisheries Stocking of flood plains    1990     On-going          Inplementation of the shrimp
Project        to increase production                                  culture component has been
(Cr.2146-BD)  and improve fishermen's                                  delayed by about two years, mainly
income, develop coastal                                 due to delays in appointment of a
(shrimp) aquaculture for                                design consultant by BWDB. The
export, introduce culture-                              polder development planning
based fisheries to private                              approach is different from the
ponds, and institutional                                Shrimp Culture Project approach.
development.                                            Under the Third Fisheries Project,
the existing network of canals is
used for supply and drainage
purposes compared with excavation
of new canals using acquired land.



18
2.      Project Timetable
Itern                      Planned Date              Revised Date             Actual Date
Identification"              May 1981                                           May 1981
Preparation                February 1983               May 1983                 May 1983
Appraisal             September/October 1984       October/November      October/November 1984
1984
Negotiations2'               April 1985                June 1985           November 14, 1985
Board Approval               May 1985                      -                January 14, 1986
Credit Signature         February 14, 1986                                  February 14, 1986
Credit Effectiveness       May 14, 1986             August 14, 1986         October 30, 1986
October 14, 1986
Project Completion         June 30, 1991             June 30, 1993            June 30, 1993
Credit Closing           December 31, 1991           June 30, 1992           June 30, 1993 3'
December 31, 1992
February 28, 1993
June 30, 1993
The project was identified during the course of supervision of the Oxbow Lakes Fisheries Project
(Cr.890-BD).
v Negotiations delayed due to disagreement on size and scope of project.
3/ Accounts were closed on October 31, 1993.
Comments: Issues raised at appraisal (decision making) were as follows:
Legal Framework: (i) Embankment and Drainage Act of 1952 to be revised by December 1984 to
permit controlled flooding on land inside polders for brackish water shrimp and fish farming; (ii)
long-term leases for Government-owned land to be given to groups of farmers and to individual
farmers. The Decision Memorandum meeting agreed that Government should amend or prepare
new regulations on item (i) before Board presentation. On item (ii) it was agreed that a dated
Covenant in the DCA would specify a timetable for signing of all leases.
Cost Recovery: Recommendations were made for cost recovery of O&M at farm level and
investment costs through an export cess (tariff). It was agreed that both O&M and investment costs
should be recovered at farm level and that implementation of a program acceptable to IDA would be
specified as a dated Covenant in the DCA.
Financing: The issue was meeting the gap in financing in view of the high project costs. It was
agreed that IDA would increase its credit so that IDA and other external donors would finance 90%
of total project cost net of duties and taxes.
Retroactive Financing: The issue concemed the expenditure made between appraisal and credit
signature to be financed retroactively. It was agreed that retroactive financing would not exceed
10% of the IDA credit and this would cover pre-operative expenses for the recruitment of initial
staff and for construction of the Department of Fisheries' administrative building.



19
3.      Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(SDR million)
IDA Thcal Year       Appraisal Estimate          Actual           Actual as % of Estimate
1987                  1,500                 1,550                    103
1988                  3,700                 3,152                     85
1989                  9,100                 4,394                     48
1990                 13,600                 7,594                     56
1991                 17,300                 9,367                     54
1992                 20,000                 11,367                    57
1993                 20,600                 12,665                    61
1994                 20,600                 13,543                    66
Date of final disbursement: February 17, 1994.



20
4.        Project Implementation
A. Actual InRlementation Versus ApDraisW Estimate
Actual as X of
Unit    SAR Estimate       Revised    Actual    SAR Estimate  Revised
Estimate
BWDB
Land Acquisition                      Ha        531           499          499             94             100
Embankments                          Km          197           148         142             72             96
Regulators                           No          80             67          61             76             91 2/
Drainage/SuppLy Canals                Km         104           220          150           144             68 3/
Boats and Vehicles                    No          43            37          23             53             62
PIU
Land Acquisition                     Ha           26            26          24             92              92
Constr. of DOF Building              M2          540           540          540           100             100
Constr. of PIU Office                NO            2             2             1           504'            504'
Constr. of Hatchery                  NO            2             2             2          100             100
Constr.of Demonstration Farm         NO            2             2             2          100             100
and Training Center
Constr. of DOF Residential           M2       3,379         3,713         3,1085/          92              84
BuiLdings
Boats and Vehicles                   No           38            36           36            95             100
Boats and Vehicles                   No           16            21           21           131             100
(Consultants)
Consultant Foreign                   mm          120           1346/         128          107              96
Consultant Local                     mm       1,049         2,6237"       2,623           250             100
Training Foreign8/                   No           23            71           71           309             100
Training Local9/                     No       -----         ------        1,730         -----             -----
1/       At Cox's Bazar, Polder 70, a 6 km retirement has to be constructed to complete the peripheral
embankment. It could not be completed due to opposition by owners to hand over the land.  Using
GOB's emergency powers, the land was finally taken over Late in the construction season of
FY92/93.  The retirement is scheduled for completion during FY94 under the Food For Work program.
2/        At Polder 70, one reguLator was dropped and 5 regulators were about 86X as of June 30, 1993.
Works financed by GOB's own resources are scheduled for compLetion in FY94.
3'        At Cox's Bazar, Polders 66/3, 66/4, and 70, a part of the internal embankment along the
drainage/supply canals has not been compLeted due to the opposition of salt farmers to hand over
the land needed for construction purposes, and also as the construction season is limited to one
month due to the salt/shrimp cropping pattern.
4/        Because of civiL works deLays, the KhuLna Office could not be constructed.  The office is now
proposed to be constructed with civil works funds from the IDA-assisted Third Fisheries Project
and the Asian Development Bank-assisted Second Aquaculture Project, and GOB's own funds.
5'        For reasons mentioned in (4) above, the Khulna Residential BuiLdings couLd not be constructed.
The buildings are proposed to be constructed based on the arrangements mentioned in (J ) above.
6/        During extension of the project period, 10 man-months of a Hatchery Specialist and 4 man-months of
an Aquaculturist for the DFTCs were provided. However, 8 man-months of a Hatchery Specialist were
used as PIU decided to conduct hatchery operations on their own. An Aquaculturist was identified
but subsequently the candidate expressed his inabiLity to join the project. PIU decided to
conduct DFTC operations using own staff. However, some support was provided by the Hatchery
SpeciaList.
7'        The man-months increased mainly because of extension of the NGO contract during the extended phase
of the project.
8/        Number refers to persons trained.  At appraisal, only a notional number of persons to be trained
was provided. DetaiLs were to be estimated by Project Consultants.
9/        Number refers to courses.  At appraisal, number of courses was not provided.  Details were to be
estimated by Project ConsuLtants.



21
4.      Project Implementation
B. Construction Schedule
(by Fiscal Year)
Commencement             Completion              Number of Years
BWDB Works    Appraisal   Actual         Appraisal   Actual        Appraisal      Actual
Khulna
Polder 20/1           88           88          89          89             2             2
Polder 20             88           88          89          90             2             3
Cox's Bazar
Rampur Polder 1       88           88          89          91             2             4
Rampur Polder 2       88           88          89          90             2             3
Rampur Polder 3       88           88          89          91             2             4
Rampur Polder 4       88           88          89          91             2             4
Rampur Polder 5       88           88          89          92             2             5
Polder 66/3           89           90          90          93             2             4"
Polder 66/4           89           90          90          93              2            4"
Polder 70             89           91          90          94              2            411
PIU Works
Khulna and Cox's
Bazar
Hatcheries (2 Nos)    88           90          88          92              1            3
Demonstration Farms
(2 Nos)
Khulna              87          90          88          92              2            3
Cox's Bazaar       87           90          88          93              2            4
Residential Buildings    88        90          89          92             2             3
Functional Buildings    87         90          88          92             2             3
" Some work has yet to be done on the internal embankments along the drainage and supply canal.



22
S.      Project Cost and Flnancing
A. Project Costs"
Component                       Appraisal      Estimated Actual          Actual as % of
Estimate                                     Appraisal
(US$ '000)            (US$ '000)
Infrastructure1'                   13,900               16,5931'                    119
Credit
On-farm                            8,900                 448                         5
Private Hatcheries                 2,600                 118                         5
Marketing                           700                    0
Institutional Support
DOF4'                              4,000               4,235                       106
BWDB5                             2,200                2,538                       115
TA & Training
Implem. Consultants                4,000               3,274                        82
Training & Fellowships              400                  184                        46
Total Cost                         36.700               27.390                       75
Costs include physical and price contingencies.
2'     Includes cost of land, construction of embankments, drainage channels, bridges, culverts, etc.
1'     Includes estimated US$1.0 million of unpaid expenditure and therefore unclaimed from IDA.
4'      Includes construction of PIU office and residential buildings, DFTCs, hatcheries, purchase of
vehicles and equipment, salaries and operating expenses.
Includes purchase of vehicles and equipment, salaries and operating expenses.



23
S.      Project Cost and Flnancing
B. Prolect Financing
Source                                       Appraisal             Actual        Actual as % of
Estimate US $'000            US$'000            Appraisal
A. IDA
Civil Works                                   11,100              13,221                   119
Equipment and Vehicles                           850                680                     80
(a) Loan under Part B (1)                      3,750                122                      3
(b) Loan under Part B (I)                      2,150                  0
Staff Salaries & Oper. Expenses                2,150               2,395                   111
Unallocated                                    2,000               1,532                    77
Subtotal                                    22,000"             17,950e                   82
B. UNDP
Technical Assistance                           4,500               3,4583'                  77
C. GOB                                          4,500               5,538V                  123
D. PBs                                          2,400
E. Bangladesh Bank (BB)                         1,400                 4095'                  11
F. Investors                                     1,900                 355'                   2
Total                                      H,.7                 27390                    75
Per Credit Agreement.
21      Per IDA Disbursement Records as of 09/30/93.
3'      Per UNDP Office, Dhaka.
v/      Per DOF and BWDB records. Includes expenditure of US$1.0 million not claimed from IDA.
5'      Mission estimate.



24
6.      Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal Estimate         PCR Estimate
Benefitting Area
Main Project Area (ha):                            7,000                    6,180
Additional Area (ha):                              2,500                    2,965
Incremental Production (Main Project Area)
at Full Development
Exportable Shrimp (tons):                          1,478                    1,200"
Misc. Fish and Shrimp (tons):                      1,840
Paddy (tons):                                        114                     n.a.2/
Production at Full Development of Juveniles                                    n.a.
in Project Hatcheries 3' (million):                    110
Benefitting Farm Families:                           3,700                    4,300
"1      Estimated 40% incremental exports between 1987-1993.
21      Data not available.
3/      Difficult to make any estimate because hatcheries need repairs and operating funds (Part 1, paras
5.9 and 6.3)



25
6.     Project Reslts
B. Financial Impact
Appraisal Estimate '           PCR Estimate
(Taka '000)                 (Taka '000)
Net Farm Incomes
Shrimp/Paddy Rotation (1.0 ha)             63.7                         35.9
Shrimp/Salt Rotation (1.0 ha)              62.5                         45.4
Shrimp Monoculture (1.0 ha)               66.9                          53.3
Increased by a factor of 1.52 to bring them into equivalent 1993 prices. The PCR estimates are
overall lower than the SAR because of comparatively higher production costs and low output prices
particularly for paddy.
C. Economic lmpact
Appraisal Estimate           PCR Estimate
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)                  27%                        20%
1.     The overall economic impact of the project has been substantial. Besides increasing
personal incomes and the quantity of exports, thus boosting the country's foreign exchange
earmings, there have been other unquantifiable benefits such as job creation, particularly in
the construction sector, and better environmental ambiance for the shrimp farming
communities because of improved infrastructural facilities.
2.     The PCR ERR calculation does not include the incremental benefit from the
additional areas which were not included in the SAR. If these benefits were included, the
estimated PCR ERR would increase to over 25 %. The PCR ERR would also have been
higher if there were no delays in the construction of the infrastructure. The delays resulted
in the bulk of project benefits being realized two or three years later than anticipated, thus
depressing the PCR ERR estimate.



26
7.      Status of Major Covenants
DCA            Covenant                            Original    Revised        Status
Section                                           Date         Date
3.01 (a)      Borrower to carry out project in     Not           -            Complied with.
conformity with appropriate         specified.
administrative, financial engineering
and fisheries practices, and provide
funds facilities, services and other
resources required.
3.01 (c)      Borrower shall ensure that adequate    Not         -            Not complied with.
funds will be allocated to BWDB for  specified.
the operation and maintenance
(O&M) of project facilities.
3.02 (d)      Borrower shall ensure short-term     Not           -            Complied with.
credit to ultimate Borrowers by PBs    specified.
and refinanced by BB.
3.04          Borrower shall select additional     Not           -            Complied with.
project areas satisfactory to IDA and   specified.
shall furnish, for approval, proposals
for inclusion of such areas in the
project.
3.06          Borrower shall submit land          Not           -             Complied with
acquisition plans to Deputy        specified                   difficulties. Land
Commissioners nine months before                               acquisition was delayed.
land is needed for construction, and
provide funds, vehicles, survey
equipment and staff necessary for
verification and approval of land
acquisition plans.
4.01 (b)(i)   Borrower to have all accounts for    Not           -            Complied with.
each fiscal year audited by         specified
independent auditors.
4.01 (b) (ii)    Borrower to submit audited        Within 9      -            Complied with, although
statements to IDA.                  months of                  often with delays in
end of                     submission.
each
fiscal
year.
4.01 (c) (i)  Borrower to maintain separate       Not            -            Complied with.
records and accounts for all       specified.
expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals are requested from the
Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.



27
7.      Status of Maior Covenants
DCA       Covenant                               Original     Revised        Status
Section                                         Date          Date
4.02 (a)   Borrower to enact legislation and set  Dec. 31,    Feb. 28,       Complied with. Cost
recovery charges to ensure full cost   1987         1993           Recovery Bill was
recovery within a 20-year period.                                  passed by Parliament in
October 1992 and the
Cost Recovery Rules
were in effect from
February 28, 1993. The
Bill and the Rules
provide for full recovery
of O&M costs through a
direct levy on
beneficiaries. Actual
recovery, however, has
yet to start.
4.02 (b)   Borrower make biennial adjustments to    Biennially  -            Not yet effective.
charges warranted by actual investment
and O&M costs.
Schedule  Borrower will establish, maintain and  Not           -             Complied with.
4.1       operate PIU, appoint Project Director  specified.
and an Asmt. Director Extension.
4.2 (i)    PIU to assist in monitoring and      Not                   -      Complied with.
evaluation of production.             specified.
4.2 (ii)   PIU to set up O&M committees in      Not            -             Complied with.
each shrimp farming block under the   specified.
project.
4.2 (iii)   PIU to liaise closely with BWDB.    Not            -             Complied with after
specified.                  initial difficulties.
4.2 (iv)   PIU to carry out training activities in  Dec. 31,   -             Complied with.
accordance with a training plan        1986/Dec                    However, the first plan
approved by IDA.                      31                           was submitted in June
thereafter                  1987, after appointment
of the consulting firm in
March 1987.
4.3 (i)    BWDB to operate two separate Field   Not            -             Complied with.
Divisions, each headed by an          specified.
Executive Engineer (EE), under the
supervision of a Superintending
Engineer.



28
7.      Status of Major Covenants
DCA       Covenant                               Onginal      Revised        Status
Section                                         Date          Date
Schedule  BWDB to designate two                 Not            -             Complied with.
4.3 (ii)   Superintending Engineers, each to be  specified.
responsible for the work of the
respective EE.
4.4 (i) &  Borrower to grant saline water intake  Dec. 31,     -             Complied with.
(ii)      permits for the Project Area and long-  1986
term leases (not less than 10 years) in
public land to shrimp farmers in
Rampur Polder.
8.      Use of IDA Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)
Stages of Project Cyde                     Planned            Revised             Actual
Through Appraisal                            n.a.               n.a.               264.0
Appraisal through Board Approval             n.a.               n.a.                9.8
Board Approval through Effectiveness         n.a.               n.a.                10.2
Supervision                                  62.1               77.1               118.0



8.      Use of IDA Resources
B. Missions
Stage of Project            Month/Year            No. of       Days in FieLd       SpeciaLizati v        Performence            Type of Problem3/
Cycle                                            Persons                            Represented            Rating
Status
Identification4/             May 1981              n.a.             n.a.                 n.a.
Preparation                  May 1983              n.a.             n.a.                 n.a.
Appraisal                  Oct/Nov 1984              6              n.a.                 n.a.                 -
SupervisionI                August 1986              5               12           AE, A, PO, CE, F            2                       M, C
Supervision 2               April 1987               3               12               IE, CE, F               2                       M, C
Supervision 3              Oct/Nov 1987              5               14           CE, IE, F, AE, PO           2                       M, C
Supervision 4                May 1988                4               24             AE, PO, IE, F             2                       M, C
Supervision 5              October 1988              5               30           AE, PO, CE, F, CE           2                       M, C
Supervision 6             May/July 1989              5               24           PO/TM, CE, DO IE,           2                       M, C
F
Supervision 7               August 1990              4               24           PO/TM, DO, IE, F                                    M, C
Supervision 85/              June 1991               2               27               P0/TN, IE               2                       M, C
Supervision 9              Jan/Feb 1993              3               21               PO, DO, CE              2                       M, C
1/       AE z Agricultural Economist; A r AgricuLturalist; CE = Civil Engineer; F   Fisheries Specialist; IE = Irrigation Engineer; PO =
Program Officer; TM = Task Manager;         DO = Disbursement Officer.
2/        1 = Problem free or minor problems; 2 z moderate problems; 3 = major problems
3/        N = management, mainLy related to delays in civil works; C = CompLiance with LegaL Covenant, mainly related to cost recovery
4/        Project was identified in the course of supervision of the Oxbow Lakes Project (Cr. 890-BD).
5/        Because of staffing constraints, a supervision mission planned for May/June 1992 could not be carried out.  An internal desk review
was, however, done.
C. COSTS
Data are not available on cost of staff inputs broken down by each stage of the project cycle.



30
BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
ANNEX 1
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS



BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
PROJECT PRODUCTION, COSTS AND MARGINS
A. SHRIMP \1
AREA                                               PRODUCTICN (MT)                 AVERAGE PROD/HA 0(G)
YEAR                   COX'S  KHULNA                 TOTAL                COX'S    KHULNA   TOTAL                  COX'S    KHULNA   TOTAL
1987                      5151       756                 5907                334.8      51.4      386.2                65.0       68.0      65.4
1988                      4931       937                 5868                470.7      862       556.9                95.5       92.0      94.9
1989                      4979      1219                 6198                548.2     160.9      709.1                110.1     132.0     114.4
1990                      6704      2163                 8867                 782      283.9    1065.9                 116.6     131.3     120.2
1991                      6607      2223                 8830                567.6     501.9    1069.5                  859      225.8     121.1
1992                      6114      2234                 8348               1453.8     626.9    2080.7                237.8      280.6     249.2
1993     \2               6900      2245                 9145               1624.5     773.2    2397.7                235.4      344.4     262.2                             w
PROD. COSTS (TK CD0                                GROSS INCOME (TK 000C                      MARGIN PER HA (TK 000)
YEAR                    COXS   KHULNA                TOTAL                COX'S    KHULNA   TOTAL                   COX'S    KHULNA   TOTAL
1987                     10379      4128                14507               53570       6426     59996                 8.38       3.04      7.70
1988                     17743      6258                24001               78834      12930     91764                 1239       7.12     11.55
1989                    21652      12799                34451               92638      24136    116774                 1426       9.30     1328
1990                     30665     20430                51095              101966      43454    145420                 10.64     10.64     10.64
1991                     33786     33278                67064              100074      64796    164870                 10.03     14.18     11.08
1992                     59500     37623                97123              246507      80984    327491                30.59      19.41     27.60
1993     \2              66486     46416               112902              259490    105783    365273                 27.7       26.44     27.60
-i M
m
\1 Onginal and AddUtonal Areas                                                                                                                                             (D  X
\2 Estimtes because final figures were not available at the time of the PCR mission's visit.
Source: PCU, Dhaka.



BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
PROJECT PRODUCTION
B. PADDY
AREA                        PRODUCTUN (MT)              PRODUCTION PER HA
YEAR                        --------                     ----------------            ----------------
1987                                0                           0                            0
1988                             1214                        1569                         1.29
1989                             1196                        2447                         2.05
1990                             1190                        2329                         1.96
1991                             1186                        2529                         2.13
1992                             1195                        1999                         1.67
1993                             1195                        2500                         2.09
SOURCE: PIU, Dhaka.
03 Z
0) z
(- m
rn 



BANGLADESH                  ANINEX 1
33            SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT  Table 3
PROJECT PRODUCTION
_______________________
C. HATCHERIES
P.Monodon                     M. Rosenbergii
(Bagda)                       (Golda)              Macrobrachium
Cox's Bazar                                                                           -
1989
Larvae                           300000                        300000
Post Larvae                     118900                          29375
1990
Larvae                         4200000                        3500000
Post Larvae                     213600                          52411
1991
Larvae            \1                 0
Post Larvae       \1                 0                              0
0
1992
Larvae            \1                 0                        2800000
Post Larvae       \1                 0                         600000
1993
Larvae                         1000000                        2800000
Post Larvae                      34000                          51500
Khulna
1992
Post Larvae                                                                         318000
1993
Post Larvae                                                                          10000
\1 No production because of cyclone damage to the hatcheries
Source: PIU Cox's Bazar and Khulna
===-===     ========= ======--====== -=-===-= = =



ANNEX 1
34                                          TabLe 4
BANGALDESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
MODELS \1
SHRIMP            SHRIMP/         SHRIMP/
MONOCULT.          PADDY            SALT
(1.0 Ha)          (110 Ha)        (1.0 Ha)
PRODUCTION
Shrimp            (Kg)                       450             300             300
Paddy             (Kg)                                       1673
Salt              (Kg)                                                     50000
PRICE               (Tk/Kg)
Shrimp                                       200             200             200
Paddy                                                           5
Salt                                                                         1.25
GROSS REVENUE    (Tk)
Shrimp                                     90000           60000           60000
Paddy                                                       8365
Salt                                                                       62500
TOTAL REVENUE                               90000           68365          122500
COSTS - SHRIMP    (Tk)
Cost of Fry        (25000 & 15000 fries)     8750            5250            5250
Cost of Ume        (750 & 400Kg)             4500            2400            2400
Organic Fertillser                           2000            1000            1000
Chemical Fertiliser                          2000            1050            1050
'(100Kg TSP & 50Kg Urea)
Pesticide                                    6000            3500            3500
Maintainance of gate etc                     5000            3000            3000
Lease                                           0            7000            7000
Others                                       5000            3500            3500
Finance Costs     \1                        3491            2804            2804
COSTS- PADDY                                                  3000
COSTS - SALT
Labour             (500 man-days)                                           37500
Water Management Tools                                                       2000
Baskets                                                                      1200
Spread                                                                        200
Rollars                                                                      2000
Lease
Others                                                                        200
Finance Costs     \2                                                       4525.5
Total                    36741           32504           77129
MARGIN  -With Project                        53259           35862           45371
========-Without Project      \3             14330            4589           26486
-Incremental                       38929           31273           18885
========              ~~==s=======s=z========_.= ======_
\1 It was not possible to obtain data on the Investment costs neccessary to complete these models.
\2 Estimated at 70% of total costs at an Interest charge of 15%
\3 Based on SAR and inflated by a factor of 1.52 to express them in 1993 constant figures.
=======c==-. ===_======================:=~=== ===__



BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
PROJECT COST
(TK 000)
1986/7         1988      1989      1990       1991      1992      1993           TOTAL
1. BWDB RESPONSIBIUTY
Total Costs (lrraslructur, Equip&Veh 0OM)     4338     57923     86967    102606    119990    146520    130392   \1          648736
GOB Cortlbutlon                               493       8786     10725     13624     51869      14319    52854   \1          152670
2. DOF RESPONSIBLrTY
Land                                             0       740       830         0       1530        50         0                3150
PIU BLIding .                                2900       1250         0         0       800       1890      2510                9350
Demo. Farms and TCs                              0         0         0      3530      9610       6080      2300               21520                          w
Hatcheries                                       0         0         0       940      2670       3110      1640                8360                          >
ResideFtial Builngs                              0         0         0         0         0       2630     17710               20340
VeNcles and Equlpm                            5780     20020      1050       220       1000       130      2150               30350
Saarles audOpLExps.                          3510       4670      5110      7810      7010      9110      11610               48830
Ofhers                                           0       240         0         0         0        350         0                 590
Sub-Total                         12190      26920      6990     12500     22620     23350     37920               142490
Consulants                                   5190      18490     15560    20700      17620       3850      3500               84910
Trainig Alowwnces                                0      2290      2800         0          0         0       800                5890
Sub-Total                          5190     20780      18360     20700     17620      3850      4300                90800
Total DOF                          17380     47700     25350     33200     40240     27200    42220                233290
GOB Cortrltxlon                               2020     12320      1490      1050      3980       6060      9660               36580
3. CREDIT                                        0         0      2696      1620      3183       3562      5822               16883                            -  D
___   _                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cr z
TOTALPROJECTCOST                             21718    105623    115013    137426    163413    177282    178434               898909                                m
\1 1993 BWDB flgue lnckldes Tk40 nilon estirnted expenditre hcurred but not daimed rom IDA. It w4ll ul0nutely be borne by GOB.                                 %
Sowrce: BWDB and DOF (PILO
___    ___   _       _     .    _    .______-- - -_--_._______._______.______=.



BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
KEY INDICATORS
Rural Consumer                Average             Annual               Average TK/$
Price Index                   Inflation %         Inflafors %          Exch. Rate
1987                           424                           14.9                1.52               30.63
1988                           456                            7.5                1.32                31.25
1989                         475.1                            4.2                1.23               32.15
1990                           504                            6.1                1.18                32.93
1991                         551.3                            9.4                1.11               35.67
ON
1992                         586.2                            6.3                1.05               38.15
1993                         n.a                              4.5 (estimate)     1.00 (estimate)     40.00 (estimate)
SOurce: WB
-H D"
0n z
cr Z
- m
CD X
0' _~



BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
EXPORT PARITY PRICES OF SHRIMP
FINANCIAL           ECONOMIC
C&F USA                                 \1        US$/Kg         11.78                11.78
Less Freight and Unloading                        US$/Kg          0.45                0.45
FOB Bangladesh                                    US$/Kg         11.33                11.33
Exchange Rate                                     Tk/US$            40                  40
FOB Bangladesh                                    Tk/Kg          453.2               453.2
Less: Taxes                                       Tk/Kg              0
Transport, Processing and Marketing Costs &  Tk/Kg          133.4               118.7  \2
Middlemen Margins
Farmgate Price (Headless)                         Tk/Kg          319.8               334.5
Farmgate Price (Head-on)                          Tk/Kg         207.87               217.4
\1 Based on export mix of 25% sizes 13/15 and 31/35 to 61/70 at average price of US$3.83 per Lb; and the remainder 75% being     -  :z
sizes 16/20 to 26/30 at an average price of US$5.87 per Lb.                                                                   a- z
\2 Financial Cost converted using SCF of 0.89 as advised by WB
                                                                                                                                       



BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
ECONOMC ANALYSIS
(Expressed 1993 Constant TkOOo)
Prolect         lrvestmert              Operating &             Incremental        Incremental
Year             Costs                  Other Costs             Prod. Costs         Prod. Value
1                  30694                      0                   0                   0
2                 129914                      0               33494               47327
3                 131637                      0               40513               79839
4                 150929                      0               44604              106976
5                 168935                      0               52639               65350
6                 166130                      0               46517              226960
7                 156919                      0               44329              262174
8                      0                  38557               44329              278979
9                      0                  40609               44329              278979
10                      0                  44743               44329              278979
11                      0                  38859               44329              278979
12                      0                  38625               44329              278979                                                     cc
13                      0                  38817               44329              278979
14                      0                  38581               44329              278979
15                      0                  39037               44329              278979
16                      0                  38557               44329              278979
17                      0                  40609               44329              278979
18                      0                  44743               44329              278979
19                      0                  38859               44329              278979
20                      0                  38625               44329              278979
Econorric Rate of RetuFn (ERR)   =                 20.16 %
Notes and Assumptions
1. The above analysis does not include the additional areas. If Included, the ERR would Improve to about 25%.
2. Economic Prices: Shrlmp TK 2171Kg: Paddy Tk6.5,Kg: Salt TK 1.25hKg (same as financial price).                                                 v  z
3. SCF of 0.89 has been used.                                                                                                                    CD  x
4. 1ncremertal production value relates to shrimp, paddy and salt attributable to the prolecL tO
5. Other Costs Include replacemerts, O&M of infrastructuxe, salaries and other operaUng costs.



39                             ANNEX 2
GUIDELINES FOR PREPARING O&M
Procedures for Assessment of Levy
1.        The brief notes and guidelines given below could assist BWDB in the preparation
of a proposal for implementing the cost recovery levy.
(i)       All works financed with public funds should be maintained effectively.
Expenditures incurred by BWDB on the O&M of these works are
recoverable from the beneficiaries. Expenditure would include all
labor, materials, and operating costs of vehicles and equipment
required. The salaries and allowances of all BWDB staff directly and
solely working in the project would be charged in full. A percentage
of the salaries of executive staff involved in project activities would be
partly included in the cost.
(ii)      estimate the expenditure to be incurred by BWDB and beneficiaries
according to the suggested guidelines described in the table below.
(iii)     BWDB and DOF should meet with O&M committees and also with a
wide range of beneficiaries (farmers cultivating upper, middle and
lower farms, owner and tenant farmers, and large and small holders).
Activities and costs should be discussed, and agreements reached on
the tasks to be performed by BWDB and farmers, the cost to be
recovered, and the methodology to be adopted for the collection of the
levy.



BANGLADESH: Shrimp Culture Project
Annex 2: Guidelines for Preparing O&M
Tabte 1.   Guidelines for Preparation of an Operation and Maintenance Plan and Assessment for Cost Recovery                                     (Page 1)
Activity                Details of Works                                            Frequency                  Responsibitty    Assessment Nethotogy
OPERATICUS
1. Supervision           Patroling of embankments, canals, to check condition.            10 Km of embankment       BWDB               A Works Assistant or Khalashi designated
Supervise O&M works                                             and canals within the                         for each reach. Costed on a monthly basis
reach, once a week                            for 12 months. Full cost to be allocated to
the project.
2. Gate operations       Gate regulation. Assist BUDS staff in supervision of             As required               A beneficiary    A gate operator for each sluice. Costed on
works under activity 1                                                                     or an operator   the basis of actual time spent
appointed and
paid by the
O&M committee
3. Esimates for           Long.&Cross Sections of drainage canals.  Measurment of  As required 1/                    BUDB               The Section Officer with a team of three
maintenance           repair of scours, damaged protection works etc.                                                               skilted men to be responsible. Costed for
Preparation of estimates                                                                                      the actual time spent.                               0
4. Overheads                                                                                                         BUDB               A percentage of the Exen's and SDE's
satary, and the full salary of SOs,
Khatashis
PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE
1. Peripheral            Filling of rain cuts (runnels). Filling of minor slips   Throughout the year.    Beneficiaies,    All earthworks and slashing operations
Embankment            in slopes, and at abutments and wing walls of                                              with the           should be on a km basis. Cost could be
structures. Repairing of rat holes, ghogs, and caverns                                     technical          assessed on the basis of 4 cm spread of
formed due to bad compaction. Preventive works to stop                                     advice of          earthfill. Protection works at the initial
piping immediately these are observed.  Repairs to                                         BWDB.              stages of disrpair could be carried out by
protection works. Slashing of vegetation particularly                                                         benficiaries with materials suppled by
around structures. Replacement of grass at eroded or                                                          BWDB. Security of the embankment could be
damaged sections. Preventing cattle damage. Maintaining                                                       organized by the PMC and Union Sub-
reservations. Preventing squatting by people on crest                                                         cormittees.
and slopes of embankments. Preventing the planting of
annual crops
WIto



BANGLADESH: Shrimp Culture Project
Annex 2: Guidelines for Preparing O&M
Table 1.   Guidelines for Preparation of an Operation and Maintenance Ptan and Assessament for Cost Recovery                                (Page 2)
Activity               Detaits of Works                                          Frequercy                | Responsibilty   | Assessment Methology
4. Drainage/Supply       Greasing of lifting rods and mechanisms. Removal of           As required               BWDB              A lunp sun to be provided. Past
Regulators           rust. Tightening of anchor bolts of headstocks.                                                            expenditures could be the basis for
Checking and minor repairs to connection between gates                                                    costing. Cost would differ widely for each
and lifting rods. Minor repairs to protection works.                                                      location.
Removal of debris particularly water hycinth, and man
made obstructions at gates.
2. Drainage/Supply      Removal of fish fences and man made obstructions.             As directed by BWDB        Benficiaries      BWDB staff and the gate operator, could
canal                Checking and removat of water hycingth at its early                                                        identify requirements, and organize
growth.                                                                                                   beneficiaries to carry out the work.
3. Secondary            Maintenance of slopes at farmer constructed narrow             Throughout the year       Beneficiaries    Could be estimated on the basis of 2 cms of
Embankment and       wooden intakes. Fil(ing of scours in slopes and crest.                                                     fill and costed on an unit of a km.
Road                 Prevention and repairs of unauthorized cuts.
4. Farm ridges and       Repairs to rat and crab holes in ridges, and removal of  Throughout the year            Beneficiaries    Need not be costed
and drains           debris and obstruction in drains.
5. Tree plantations    Maintenance of trees, inclusive of controlled                   Throughout the year       Benficiaries      The unit can be either on a km or number
harvesting. Maintaining embankment slopes.                                                                basis. Forestry Department or NGOs could
assist in costing.
PERIOIC MAINTENANCE
1. Peripheral           Earthfill of slips and breaches inclusive of grassing,   Annually                        BWDB              Data on damage repairs due to normal
Embankment           caused by normal monsoon floods, and public cuts.                                                          monsoon floods, wave action, and river bank
Permanent works to arrest piping. Repairs to existing                                                     erosion would be available with BWDB. Cost
protection works, provided for arresting damage due to                                                    should exclude damage due to major floods
wave action and river bank erosion. Extension of                                                          or cyclones, bank erosion by major rivers,
protection works as required. Filling of scours on road                                                   and wave erosion where the fetch is more
and gravelling as required. Resectioning to design                                                        than 0.5 km. Damage repairs due to
profile necessitated due to settlement.                                                                   cyclonic, above normal floods, and erosion
by major rivers should be costed separately
and works carried out by other means.
coI



BANGLADESH: Shrimp Culture Project
Annex 2:  Guidelines for Preparing OSM
Table 1.   Guidelines for Preparation of an Operation and Maintenance Plan and Assessment for Cost Recovery                                (Page 3)
Activity               Details of Works                                         I Frequency                Responsibilty I Assessment Methology
2. Drainage/Supply      Repairs and painting of gates and lifting mechanism.          Annually                  BWDB               A lump sum should be provided. Past records
Regulators           Replacement of damaged rubber seals. Repair or                                                             of BWDB would be useful in working out
replacement of trashracks. Repair of eroded concrete                                                      costs. Expenditure could be monitored
sections, and damage to aprons, and protection works.                                                     effectivety and changes made as required
for future years.
3. Drainage/Supply      Removal of silt and earth to maintain design profile          Depends on location        BWDB              Silt removal could be on an unit of m3. The
canal                and bed level. Removal of water hycinth.                                                                   quantity and frequency of operation could
be estimated on the basis of prevoius data.
Water hycinth ctearing should be done
annually and the unit could be m2.
4. Secondary            Replacement of farmer constructed narrow wooden intakes  Annually                        Beneficiaries    If works were financed with public funds,            D
Embankment and       by well designed wide intakes. Repair of breaches, road                                                    it should be costed using an unit of m2.
Road                 scours and gravelling as required.                                                                         BwOB should ensure that beneficiries carry
out the work. If not BWDB should complete
the work and include the cost in the levy.
5. Farm ridges and      Reconstructing farm ridges, and desilting of drains            Twice annually as        Beneficiaries    Not to be costed
drains                                                                             required for the crop
pattern
6. Materials, Tools,   Supply of: cement, stone, sand, timber for concrete            Annually                  BWDB               To be purchased and kept in BWDB stocks.
Fuets, and other    works; brick or stone for protection works;  grease and                                                    Quantity to be decided on past requirements
inputs               paint; fuel and lubricants; jute bags and etc.; and                                                       and replenished annually to maintain
tools.                                                                                                    minimun requirements.
1 The SDE and SO should inspect the embankment before and after the monsoon and decide whether works could be estimated on the basis of tape measurements or engineering
surveys. For desilting work of canals, surveys could be carried out according to the frequency of work.
IX
go_ 



