Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5561-BD
STAFiF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
November 27, 1985
South Asia Projects Department
General Agriculture I Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB    -  Asian Development Bank
BARC   -  Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
BB     -  Bangladesh Bank
BFDC   -  Bangladesh Fisheries Development Corporation
BKB    -  Bangladesh Krishi Bank
BRRI   -  Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
BWDB   -  Baugladesh Water Development Board
DAEK  -  Directorate of Agriculture Extension and Management
DC     -  Deputy Commissioner
DFTC   -  Demonstration Farm and Training Center
DOF    -  Department of Fisheries
EE     -  Executive Engineer
ERR    -  Economic Rate of Return
FAO    -  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FD     -  Fisheries Division
FRR    -  Financial Rate of Return
GDP    -  Gross Domestic Product
GOB    -  Government of Bangladesh
EYV    -  High Yielding Variety
ICB   -  International Competitive Bidding
LA&LR -  Ministry of Land Administration and Land Reform
LCB    -  Local Competitive Bidding
M&E    -  Monitoring and Evaluation
*'EU    -  Mobile Extension Unit
NEC    -  National Economic Council
OCC    -  Opportunity Cost of Capital
O&M    -  Operation and Maintenance
PCI    -  Participating Credit Institution (BKB and Sonali Bank)
PIU    -  Project Implementation Uait
PP     -  Project Proforma
PRTA   -  Project Related Technical Assistance
PSA    -  Project Special Acco_nt
PY     -  Project Year
SCES   -  Shrimp Culture Extension Service
SCF    -  Standard Conversion Factor
SDR    -  Special Drawing Right
SE     -  Superintending Engineer
SMS    -  Subject Matter Specialist
SWIP   -  Salt Water Intake Permit
TOR    -  Terms of Reference
UNDP  -  United Nations Development Program
UNO    -  Upazila Nirbahi Officer



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
Aquaculture              -  Cultivation of aquatic products on commercial
basis.
Aus                      -  Rice planted during February/March and harvested
in June/July.
Black Tiger Shrimp       -  Penaeus monodon.
Culture-based Fisheries -  Fisheries in which harvesting is concentrated on
fish stocks which have been built up through
stocking of vater bodies with young fish. The
fishing grounds, biological productivity, fish
stocks and fishing activities involved in this
type of fisheries are, to some extent, manageable
and controllable.
District                 -  Administrative unit headed by a Deputy
Commissioner and comprising a number of subdivisions.
Division                 -  Administrative unit headed by a Commissioner and
comprising a number of Districts.
Freshwater Shrimp        -  Macrobrachium rosenbertii.
Indian White Shrimp      -  Penseus indicus.
Inland Fisheries         -  Fisheries conducted in inland waters.
Juvenile Shrimp          -  Shrimp grown to post-larval stage.
Marine Sbrimp            -  Penseus species.
Monsoon                  -  Period of rains starting in June and ending in October.
Parishad                 -  Board constituted for specific assignments comprising
elected and Goverument-nominated members.
Polder                   - A tract of low land reclaimed from a body of water.
Shrimp Fry               -  Young shrimp at its post-larval stage.
Upazila                  - Upgraded thana as defined by Local Government
(Thana Parishad and Thana Administration)
Ordinance 1982.
Union                    -  Unit of self-government at village level; there
are about ten unions in a thana.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the per.v-nance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriza:ion.



BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   INTRODUCTION                              ............................................        1
II.   SECTORAL  CONTEXT  ........................................                                    1
-   Introduction  .**....... .........................                               .       1
-   The Fisheries  Subsector  . ........ ...............   ......                            2
-   Shrimp  Culture  Development                  ...........................                5
-   Institutions  .........................................                                  8
-   Bank Group  Involvement  in  the  Sector  .................                             11
III.   THE  PROJECT  .............................................                                   12
-   Project  Objectives  and Rationale  .....................                               12
-   Project  Area  and  Status  of  Engineering  ...............                            13
-   Project  Components                    ...................................              15
-   Detiled  Features .......................................                               16
-   Dsro se t Costs ........................................                                20
I   O inancing  ...................                   .........................             22
-   Procureuent  ......................................................                     24
-   Disbursement  .....................................................                     26
IV.   ORGARIZATION AIM  BbAEET...............................................                      28
-   Implementing Agencies  ........ ....... .................                               28
-   Phasing  of  Implementation  ............................                               30
-   Monitoring  and Evaluation  ..... ..... ...... .. ..........                            33
V.   PRODUCTION, MARKETrNG AND PRICES  ... ..... .... .. ..........                               35
-   Production  .......................................................                     35
-    Marketing  .......................................................                     36
-  Prices ..... .... .......................    37
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..........                          ..       ....... ....   38
-   Benefits,  Beneficiaries,  and  Employment  ............                       ..       38
-   Farm  Incomes and  Financial Analysis  ..................                               39
-   Cost  Recovery  ...... ..................                     ................          41
-   Economic Analysis  ....................................                                 41
-   Environment  Effects  ..................................                                42
-   Project  Risks  ........................................                                43
VII.   ASSURANCES  AND  RECOMMENDATIONS  ...........                    ...............              45



-ii-
ANNEXES
Annex 1  -  Tables 1-7
Summary Cost Tables
Annex 2   -  Role of PCIs and the Shrimp Culture Extension Service in
Making Project Subloans
Annex 3   - Table 1: Economic Price of Black Tiger Shrimp
Table 2: Economic Analysis (Streams)
Table 3: Economic Analysis (ERR)
Annex 4   -  Table 1: Financial Price of Black Tiger Shrimp
Table 2: Financial Analysis (FRR)
Annex 5   -  Table 1: Shrimp/Paddy Farm Model
Table 2: Shrimp/Salt Farm Model
Table 3: Shrimp Nonoculture Farm Nodel
Table 4: Hatchery Cash Flov
Annex 6   -  Quarterly IDA Disbursements
Annex 7   -  Selection Criteria for Additional Project Areas
Table 1: Staffing Requirements for PIIJ and BWDB
Table 2: Land Acquisition Procedures
Annex 8   -  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHARTS
World Bank 30129 - Overall Implementation Program
World Bank 27229 - Organization of BWDB
World Bank 27228 - Organization of DOF
World Bank 27227 - Organization of PIU
World Bank 26928 - Embankments for Main Shrimp Farming Infrastructure
World Bank 26929 - Regulators for Main Water Supply and Drainage
World Bank 26930 - Farm Improvements, Embankments and Regulators
World Bank 26931 - Shrimp Hatchery for PIU
World Bank 26932 - Demoastration Farm and Training Center for PIU
MAPS
IBID 18698
IBRD 18699
IBRD 18700R
IBRD 18701
IBID 18703



BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      Upon the emergence of Bangladesh as an independent nation, the Bank
undertook a series of major studies to identify policy options and pLan
development strategies. The Land and Water Resources Study of 1972 provided,
inter alia, tentative proposals for accelerating development of the inland
fisheries subsector. Since then, the Bank along with bilateral and other
multilateral agencies, has been supporting the Government of Bangladesh (GOB)
to develop its inland fisheries subsector in efforts to diversify the
economy.
1.02      The Bank supported two inland fisheries projects in Bangladesh with
the principal objective of increasing yields by supporting: (i) fish seed
production to support the expansion of fish far'ing and the rehabilitation of
inland fisheries resources, and (ii) management of inland fisheries and
development of aquaculture. Projects were manageably scaled, involved rela-
tively simple technologies and included extensive technical assistance.
Important goals of Bank Group lending for the inland fisheries subsector were
to: (i) improve the ability of the Department of Fisheries (DOWF), to plan and
implement fisheries programs; (ii) assess and correct the adverse effects of
drainage and flood control measures on fish resources; (iii) launch cul-
ture-based fisheries technology; (iv) improve incomes of the rural poor; and
(v) effect the transition of external aid projects into national development
programs.
1.03      Discussions between GOB and the Bank regarding assistance in the
development of coastal aquaculture date back to 1979. A shrimp culture
project was identified in 1981. A project preparation report was available
in May 1983, and a report on preliminary detailed design by a local consult-
ant served as the basis for appraisal. The proposed shrimp culture project
was appraised in October/November 1984 by a mission consisting of J. Duester,
S. Mawly, W. Roider, 0. Sissoko, Y.A. Tang (Bank) and B. Meeke (consultant).
The mission's findings are the basis for this report.  Credit Negotiations
were held in November 1985.
II. SECTORAL CONTEXT
INTRODUCTION
2.01      Bangladesh, one of the poorest countries in the world, is faced
with serious long-term problems. Population density of 680 inhabitants per
square kilometer (km2) and a population growth rate of about 2.6Z per annum
exacerbate problems of food supply and employment. With export earnings
covering less than one-third of the country's import bill, the economy faces
continuing structural deficits and is heavily dependent on foreign aid. GOB
policies emphasize measures to control population growth, increase food
production and improve nutrition and contain the external trade deficit.



-2-
2.02      Bangladesh's agricultural sector, incLuding fisheries, contributes
about 50Z of GDP and provides about 75% of employment and exports. Rice is
the country's staple foodgrain and paddy covers 80% of the cropped area.
Cropping intensity is about 140%. With the average farm holding being only
1.4 ha in a context of highly fragmented holdings and a majority of the rural
population in dire poverty, investment in agricultural inputs and on-farm
development is limited. Given the relative scarcity of land, significant
increases in production can only occur through crop intensification and
diversification, such as planting high-yielding varieties (HYV), increased
use of inputs, expanded and improved irrigation and by increasing cropping
intensity through measures such as better utilization of Land during the
off-season. GOB efforts are directed at: (i) developing infrastructure in
irrigation and drainage; and (ii) strengthening supporting institutions in
credit, input supply, marketing, research and extension.
THE FISHERIES SUBSECTOR
Resources, Production, and Consumption
2.03      Bangladesh is rich in fisheries resources.  Located in the delta
of the Brahmaputra, Ganges, and Meghna rivers, one-fifth to one-third of its
land is flooded by the monsoon rains (June - October' for three to five
months of the year. Water, soil, and climatic conditions are favorable for
inland fisheries and the flooded, rich agricultural Lands provide extensive
grounds for breeding, feeding, and larval nursing of fish and shrimps. As a
result, rivers and flood plains are abundant with fish and crustaceans.
Also, Bangladesh has a 480 km coastline and claims 40,000 km2 of the con-
tinental sea shelf that provides marine fish and shrimp.
2.04      Production of fish and shrimp in 1983/84 is estimated at 743,000
tons, of which 80% came from inland fisheries and 20% from marine sources.
Some 97% of the inland production stems from traditional small-scale fishing
in flood lands, rivers, and lakes, and only about 3% of production is derived
from fish culture such as carp culture and shrimp culture which the project
would support. Bangladesh ranks third in the world, behind China and India,
among inland fish producing countries. Between 1962/63 and 1975/76 fish
production declined from 720,000 tons to 640,000 tons (per capita consumption
declined from 12 kg to 8.7 kg) because of: (i) deterioration of fisheries
resources due to the construction of flood control works, water pollution
from industry and agriculture, and over-fishing of brood stock; and (ii) lack
of government commitment and support for fisheries. Since 1980/81 when
production was 650,000 tons, inland fish production has picked up again and
grew 4.6% per annum in the years upto 1983/84, partly as a result of
increased GOB emphasis put on inland fisheries and improved fishing gear such
as synthetic fiber nets for riverine fisheries. The catch of marine
fisheries has increased even faster, at 8.6% per annum, in the same period.
Fish contributes 80% of the population's animal protein intake. In 1983/84



-3-
annual per capita consumption of fish was about 7.5 kg compared to 3 kg in
India with one-third the population density and twice the per capita income.
Role in the Economy
2.05      The fisheries subsector contributes about 3% to Bangladesh's GDP
or 62 to agricultural GDP. Subsectoral employment is about 3% of total
employment, but these percentages do not highlight the importance of fishing
as a full or part-time activity for many landless families. While fisheries
imports are negLigible, fisheries exports have become a major source of
foreign exchange, US$76 M in 1983/84. Exports have grown more than 25% per
annum over the past decade, with shrimp providing more than 80% of the value,
and now exceed the value of leather and leather product exports, tradition-
ally the country's second most important export category after jute and jute
products. Bangladesh exports shrimp mainly to Japan and the countries of the
European Economic Community and its export volume constitutes less than 3% of
world trade in shrimp.
Objectives for Development
2.06      GOB's principal objectives for the fisheries subsector are:
-   to improve the nutritional level of the population through
increased fish production and consumption (supplementing the
agricultural development objective to increase foodgrain
production to the level of self-sufficiency);
-   to expand employment opportunities and improve socioeconomic
conditions among those engaged in the fisheries subsector; and
-   to increase export earnings from fisheries, including shrimp.
Increases in production and employment opportunities are mainly expected from
inland fisheries, with aquaculture having the best potential for rapid
growth. The proposed project would particularly address the export-earnings
objectives through shrimp culture.
2.07      The Bank reviewed the fisheries subsector in 1983, and concluded
that inland fisheries development would be more promising than marine
fisheries in achieving GOB's development objectives and recommended develop-
ment in three areas of aquaculture-based fisheries:
(i)  Culture-based fisheries (mainly for carp) in larger inland water
bodies, such as in low-lying depressions within drainage and flood
control schemes. Annual production could increase from 150
kg/ha/year to about 450 kg/ha/year. Some 200,000 ha of low-lying
land have such development potential;



-4-
(ii)  Shrimp culture development in coastal areas. Conversion of
current low yieLding trapping methods into higher yielding
"extensive" and "semi-intensive" operations could increase annual
production of export quality shrimp from its current level of
about 68 kg/ha to 250 kg/ha. Production on the 52,000 ha
currently exploited could increase from 3,500 tons head-on shrimp
to 13,000 tons. An additional 42,000 ha of tidal land have been
identified as technically suitable for shrimp-farming development;
and
(iii)  Intensification of carp culture in ponds where water control
conditions are appropriate. The adoption of "extensive"
technology by fish farmers would aLlow annual production to
increase from 115 kg/ha to 500 kg/ha.
2.08      This development strategy was reemphasized in the "Draft Master
Plan for Inland and Marine Fisheries Development and Management" prepared by
FAO. The findings and conclusions made public in March 1985 confirm main
emphasis on development of aquaculture by introducing new technology, exten-
sion and credit. Also the need to strengthen and restructure DOF is
reiterated.
Constraints for Development
2.0g      Among the constraints identified in the fisheries subsector review,
one is common to marine and inland fisheries: weak administration by the
Directorate of Fisheries (DOF) which lacks sufficient capability to plan,
guide, and execute supportive or innovative subsectoral development. DOF's
abiLity to cater to the legitimate interests of the fisheries subsector is
extremely limited. While the overall strengthening of DOF as an institution
will be addressed in a separate project presently under preparation for UNDP
financing (para 2.25), the proposed shrimp culture project would build up a
shrimp culture extension service (SCES) and strengthen DOF's project
implementation capability.
2.10      The main constraints to inland fisheries development, where
aquaculture is to receive highest GOB priority, are inadequate know-how and
a lack of effective mechanisms to transfer know-how to fishermen. Also, the
capacity to create savings for investments necessary for aquaculture is
limited when incomes are so low and fishing activities are small scale.
Furthermore, GOB's current practice of short-term leases for public water-
bodies is a disincentive for medium- or long-term investments. The proposed
project addresses each of these constraints.



-5-
SHRIMP CULTURE DEVELOPMENT
The Setting
2.11      Shrimp trapping with nets for subsistence and commerce has been
practiced in Bangladesh for a long time in rivers, tidal channels and along
the coast. In the 1960s, traditional shrimp culture was interrupted when
coastal polders were constructed to protect AgricuLtural production from
floods and saline water intrusion.
Area and Production
2.12      As demand and prices for shrimp on the international market rose,
extensive shrimp culture developed mostly within polders. The area under
shrimp culture has expanded rapidly over the past years, on the order of 40%
per year, since 1980/81. In 1984, shrimp was cultivated over an area of
about 52,000 ha in coastal areas, of which 61% were in the Khulna division in
the west, 36% in Cox's Bazar district in the east, and 3% in more central
coastal areas. Production in 1984 was at some 3,500 tons of head-on export-
able shrimp and 5,200 tons of miscellaneous small fish and shrimp consumed or
sold locally.  The 3,500 tons of head-on exportable shrimp are equivalent to
2,200 tons of headless shrimp or 19% of Bangladesh's shrimp exports in
1982/83 (11,500 tons), the balance coming from marine trawling as well as
coastal and riverine small-scale fishing.
Shrimp Farming
2.13      Shrimp farms are generally developed by building a small peripheral
dike around low-lying land areas inside polders built by the Bangladesh Water
Development Board (BWDB). Average landholding size in the polders is 1.' ha
and plots are fragmented and average 0.24 ha. The enclosed ponds range in
size from 10 ha to 150 ha, depending on topographical features and local
practices in shrimp farming. Typically, the landowners lease the pond area
for about half a year to persons interested in shrimp farming, while using it
for paddy or salt production during the other half of the year. Water levels
in the ponds, varying with land elevation and tide, range between 0.3 m and
1.0 m. Pond salinity varies with changes of salinity in adjacent rivers and
tidal canals. The changes, in turn, depend on such factors as land elevation
and location, volume and seasonal fluctuation of the rivers' upland flow. In
the semi-saline zone of Khulna division in the west, river salinity rises
steadily from October to June/July, then it decreases with the monsoon rains.
In the eastern coastal area around Cox's Bazar, the shorter and wider rivers
and coastal channels respond to the influences of tne sea and to more intense
rainfall, giving rise to a less stable and generally more saline regime.
2.14      The majority of shrimp is cultivated in rotation with paddy in
Khulna division and with salt production in the Cox's Bazar district. In
the shrimp/paddy rotation, shrimp grow from January to May; in the



-6-
shrimp/saLt rotation shrimp grow from June to November. In both cases, Land
is left fallow for half a year if it is not used for shrimp cuLtivation.
Juvenile shrimp are entrapped in the pond with the influx of spring tides at
the beginning of the shrimp-growing season and depend for their growth mainly
on the detritus of decomposing micro-organisrns. Current yields of export
quality shrimp range from 50 kg/ha to 150 kg/ha with an annual average yield
of nearly 70 kg/ha/year. Yields have gradually improved in recent years,
particularly in western Khulna division where some shrimp farmers have
stocked their ponds with juvenile shrimp that were collected by fishermen in
estuaries, and have reached yields of 150 kg/ha.
2.15      Shrimp monoculture is practiced in a limited area outside the BWDB
polders. Since 1979, to promote shrimp farming, DOF has leased from the
Department of Forestry 1,695 ha previously under mangrove in Rampur in Cox's
Bazar district. This tract of land has been converted to 41 shrimp monocul-
ture farms of about 40 ha each that are operated by private individuals on
short-term sublease from DOF. In accordance with a recent COB decision the
maximum size for a shrimp farming lease will be 13.2 ha so that three farmers
would jointly operate one 40 ha shrimp farm. To create an incentive for
lease holders to make on-farm investments and to make them creditworthy for
medium-term development loans the duration of the lease should be longer than
the loan duration, i.e. at least eight years. Also, lease fees should be set
at levels per unit of land that correspond to market rates in the very active
market for shrimp farming leases. The proposed project would address these
issues (para 4.01). A similar shrimp culture project is currently being
financed by the Asian Development Bank on adjacent 1,700 ha. In the absence
of appropriate shrimp cuLture techniques, yields in shrimp monoculture are
only about 40% above those attained in rotation with paddy or salt.
Marketing and Processing
2.16      The local system for coLlecting, transporting, processing and
shipping frozen shrimp is, in general, adequate and would accommodate the
incremental output envisaged by the proposed project. In i984, 45 processing
plants were in operation, of which 15 were in the Khulna, 28 in the
Chittagong and 2 in the Cox's Bazar area. Their combined annual processing
capacity is estimated to be about 60,000 tons of frozen headless shrimp.
However, annual throughput is a mere 20% of installed capacity. This low
utilization is due to lack of raw material even though processors offer
competitive prices to attract shrimp to their plants or collection centers in
shrimp producing areas. Thus, there is adequate processing capacity to deaL
with the project output and adequate price incentives for project producers.
Most of the processing plants operate under a tax holiday system that exempts
processors from payment of income tax for five years or more, depending on
location. In addition, processcrs benefit from other measures of industrial
or export promotion, among which the Export Performance License System is the
most important. It provides exporters of frozen shrimp with Import
Entitlement Certificates equivalent to 80% of the value of their exports.



-7-
These certificates can be sold in the open market and, thus, improve business
profitability. Some processors break even only because of the additional
income from the sale of certificates.
Constraints and Potential
2.17      Without changes in technology, organization and policy, scope for
growth of shrimp production is limited. Land suitable for extensive shrimp
farming is becoming scarce, and trawling involves difficuLt management of
ocean fleet. In 1984, most poldered areas considered favorable for shrimp
culture were already under some form of shrimp culture. Even if all suitable
areas came into use with current technology, incremental production of
exportab:e shrimp would be minimal. Expansion of shrimp culture outside the
poldered areas is limited by the inaccessibility of land and the high cost of
land development. Current land-use policies and legislation make access to
suitable tidal land under mangrove forests difficult. Moreover, thc axran-
sion of shrimp culture within the polders creates social rtnsions which slow
further expansion. Shrimp culture is very often an acrivity of the rela-
tively Larger landowners, who cooperate with bureaucrr.ts or businessmen
possessing the necessary capital, know-how, and entrepreneurial skill. Small
landowners, paddy farmers, and salt producers who lease their small plots to
shrimp entrepreneurs often feel deprived of a fair share of the financial
benefits of shrimp culture and maintain that shrimp producers do not ade-
quately respect their interests. If the shrimp season is extended beyond its
usual duration for example, the production of paddy or salt in the rotation
can be reduced, thereby creating repercussions on empLoyment. These con-
flicts are more pronounced in the paddy/shrimp environment of the western
coastal belt than in the saLt/shrimp environment of the eastern coastal
areas. The proposed project would address the issue of social conflicts by
promoting increased participation of small landowners (para 4.09), limiting
project activities in the western coastal areas (paras 3.04 and 3.05) and
including components of relevant research and monitoring (para 4.16). Expan-
sion of shrimp culture is further constrained by BWDB opposing saline water
intake in poldered areas. However, in the past BWDB was unable to stop
shrimp farmers from making temporary cuts in embankments to allow tidal
inflow of saline water sufficient for the low-yield shrimp culture that is
currently practiced. Until very recently the Embankment and Drainage Act of
1952 was not believed to be the right vehicle to regulate the intake of
saline water into polder areas and therefore shrimp farming activities in
polder areas were considered illegal. However, instigated by the preparatory
efforts for the proposed project, COB examined the legal situation and, in
January 1985, the Ministry of Justice issued a legal opinion stating that the
BWDB could be authorized under the Embankment and Drainage Act to permit
saline water intake in poldered areas. In the proposed project BWDB would be
the executing agency for the water control structures financed with public
funds (para 4.02) and institute procedures for controlled saline water intake
(paras 4.01 and 4.02).



-8-
2.18      The key to sustained and expanded production and exports lies in
intensifying existing shrimp-culture operations. First stage intensification
and improved shrimp trapping mainly involves improved water management. It
would increase annual yields of exportable shrimp from the current average
level of about 70 kg/ha to 250 kg/ha. Further intensification through the
use of hatchery-produced juveniles in shrimp monoculture could increase
yields to 2,000 kg/ha. The intensification process has begun among a small
number of shrimp processors, who own shrimp-farming land, and have access to
technological advice from their partner in an importing country.
2.19      The technical know-how to run shrimp hatchery and more intensive
farming operations successfully is very limited in Bangladesh and there are
no mechanisms to disseminate knowledge and proper culture practices to more
than 3,000 existing shrimp farms. Furthermore, intensification of shrimp
farming requires relatively costly investments in embankments, water control
structures, and feeder canals. A broad intensification program cannot
realistically take hold without the more active participation of smaller
landowners, but the high cost of infrastructure for shrimp culture poses
financing problems to most entrepreneurs, fishermen and farmers. Further,
government ownership of the main perimeter embankments and government control
over the regulators and secondary embankments are the only ways to allay the
legitimate concerns of crop-farmer neighbors. Finally, the credit needs of
small landowners (e.g. for on-farm investments and seasonal working capital)
as well as of middlemen and processors will have to be assured. All this
points to the need for a joint public and private sector endeavor if the land
resource is to be used efficiently and the potential for foreign exchange
earnings realized in full measure.
2.20      The proposed project aims at starting the intensification of
shrimp-culture production in Bangladesh's fisheries subsector. It would lead
about 15Z of the existing shrimp farms into the first stage of intensifica-
tion and create the basis for further intensification, both in terms of area
coverage and progressively rising levels of technology.
INSTITUTIONS
2.21      The Department of Fisheries (DOF), the BangLadesh Water Development
Board (BIDB), the Bangladesh Bank (BB) and participating credit institutions
(PCIs) would be the key project institutions and are described below. Other
agencies and institutions having a limited role in project implementation are
listed in para 4.05.
The Department of Fisheries (DOF)
2.22      DOF was created in 1943.  Following independence, it was an agency
within the Forest, Fisheries and Livestock Division of the Ministry of
Agriculture. In December 1977, DOF was transferred to the newly-formed
Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock. During the government reorganization of



-9-
1982, livestock and fisheries were combined with agriculture and forests
under the Ministry of Agriculture. A further reorganization in 1985
separated fisheries and livestock from agriculture. The Fisheries Division
(FD) of the Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock now serves as GOB's main
agency in the fisheries subsector. FD includes DOF, the Bangladesh Fisheries
Development Corporation (BFDC), and a Marine Fisheries Research, Management
and Development Unit which is soon expected to be merged with DOF.
2.23      DOF is responsibLe for administering the development of inland and
marine fisheries. Its functions are: (i) implementation of fisheries
ordinances including the administration of fisheries in public water bodies,
licensing, and certification; and (ii) promotion of inland fisheries through
preparation and implementation of fisheries development projects, research,
training, and extension. DOF empLoys about 3,000 people. It is headed by a
Director, assisted by an Additional Director and Deputy Directors for
regional and technical divisions. DOF's major functional unit is the Field
Organization comprising Divisional, District and Upazila fisheries offices
and fish seed multiplication farms. The Field Organization employs some 100
senior and supervisory staff and about 900 field officers, fishery officers,
lake managers and support staff. A biological research section consists of
some 60 scientific officers, project officers and research assistants. DOF
also has a small training section and technological and marine groups headed
by Deputy Directors.
2.24      DOF is neither adequately organized nor equipped with the necessary
financial, technical, and manpower resources to perform its managerial and
developmental functions effectively. DOF's tasks are further complicated
by the numerous GOB agencies involved in one or more aspects of fisheries
development, the generally cumbersome and inatficient administrative system
controlling the operations of all GOB agencies and low staff motivation,
largely caused by imprecise job descriptions and low salary levels. The
organization of DOF is shown in Chart 27228.
2.25      The Bank fisheries subsector review assigned highest priority to
implementation of a plan for organizationally strengthening DOF as a means of
advancing fisheries development. In 1984, a Joint GOB/FAO/UNDP evaluation
mission endorsed DOF's strengthening, and proposed the provision of consult-
ing services (15 man-months) in organization, public administration, and
fisheries development to assist GOB in preparing a program for improving
DOF's capabilities in specific areas. Subsequently, UNDP's Fishery Advisory
Service Project (BGD/81/0341F10112) provided funds for these services. Under
terms of reference (TOR) approved by the Food and Agricultural Organization
(FAO) as Executing Agency and by the Bank, a Programming Team completed field
work in mid 1985. The consultants have submitted a draft report proposing
a UNDP financed technical assistance pro iect which would complement the more
specific Project Related Technical Assistance (PRTA) to be financed under the
proposed project (paras 3.19 - 3.20).



-10-
Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB)
2.26      BWDB operates under the supervision of the Ministry of Irrigation,
Water Development and Flood Control. It is charged with the responsibility
of planning, constructing, and operating and maintaining all flood control
and drainage schemes as well as major and medium-sized irrigation systems.
In this capacity, it constructed the coastal embankment schemes in the 1960s
and would also be the Executing Agency for the construction of major embank-
ments and regulators in the proposed project. Water subsector deveLopment is
guided by the following objectives, which were confirmed in a joint GOB/World
Bank review of BWDB in 1979: (i) improving water sector planning;
(ii) strengthening the implementation capacity of BWDB; and (iii) rehabili-
tating operational BWDB schemes. After several years of institutional
improvements, a new organization plan (Chart 27229) was put into effect in
October 1984.
Bangladesh Bank (BB) and Participating Credit Institutions (PCI)
2.27      The  providers of agricultural credit in Bangladesh are:
(i) Bangladesh Bank (2B) as the Central Bank and refinancing agency;
(ii) Bangladesh Krishi Bank (BKB), a development bank and the largest source
of institutional credit for agriculture; (iii) Bangladesh Samabaya Bank Lcd.
financing the coeperative sector; (iv) nationalized commercial banks --
Sonali Bank, Janata Bank, Agrani Bank, Pubali Bank and Rupali Bank; and
(v) Uttara Bank, a formerly nationalized commercial bank that was
reprivatized in 1984 following COB's decision to readmit private banks. The
system is plagued by major institutional problems, particularly weak manage-
ment, lack of financial discipline, and resulting high rates of overdue
loans. Following an in-depth review of the credit system, conducted jointly
by GOB and the Bank in 1983, major policy changes are being implemented to
improve efficiency and credit availability. The credit component of the
proposed shrimp culture project would be limited, and credit delivery would
be handled by BKB and Sonali Bank which have branch offices in the Upazilas
where the proposed project would operate and such other PCIs as may be agreed
by GOB and IDA. Because of this limited scope and its focus on a few small
geographical areas, the proposed project cannot be used as vehicle to remedy
the problems of the entire agricultural credit delivery system in the
country. These weaknesses would have to be addressed in a second agricul-
tural credit project that would focus on institution-building. However, the
proposed shrimp culture project would lend institutional support to the PCI
branches operating in the project area and would disburse subloans under the
project under a supervised credit scheme (para 4.03) that would be carefully
monitored and is expected to have a demonstration effect on other credit
activities.
2.28      Bangladesh Bank (BB), established in 1972 as the Central Bank, is
fully owned by GOB. Apart from performing all central banking functions, BB
through its Agricultural Credit Department draws up the annual credit



-11-
program, devises new credit schemes, advises credit institutions on rural
credit matters, inspects commercial banks, BKB branches, and major coopera-
tives engaged in rural credit operations, and channels refinance for rural
lending to them. In FY80, BB introduced a short-term credit scheme for
financing shrimp farmers through BKB and the nationalized commercial banks in
some coastal districts.
2.29      Bangladesh Krishi Bank (BKB), established in 1973 is an autonomous
GOB-owned bank. It accounted for 59% of institutional lending to agriculture
in FY83.  BKB's lending volume increased more than 22-fold from FY75
(Tk 176 M) to FY83 (Tk 4,008 M); its profits rose from Tk 16.9 M in FY76 to
31.6 H in FY80. Its loan recovery rate improved from 38Z in FY75 to 70Z in
FY83, followed by deterioration thereafter. For FY84, the recovery rate on
medium- and long-term loans is only available for the Rajshahi division, the
area covered by the First Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1147-BD). It was
32% in FY84, down from 45% in FY83.
2.30      Sonali Bank is the largest commercial bank in Bangladesh and is
the most experienced in agricultural lending. Its lending volume in agricul-
ture almost doubled from FY81 (Tk 2,725.3 M) to FY83 (Tk 5,350.6 H) and its
net profits increased five-fold from Tk 96.2 M to Tk 504.5 M over the same
period. Sonali Bank's recovery rate was 70X in FY77 and 72% in FY80, also
followed by a worsening recovery position. Recovery figures for the Rajshahi
division deteriorated from 54X in FY83 to 40% in FY84.
BANK GROUP INVOLVEMENT IN THE SECTOR
2.31      Bank involvement in inland fisheries development emerged in the
course of financing water resource development projects. Spec_fically, it
focussed on the need to identify possible adverse effects on inland fisheries
from flood control, drainage, and irrigation works and to mitigate such
effects by introducing fishery components in these projects. A fisheries
subproject, including significant technical assistance, was included in the
Karnafuli Irrigation Project (Cr. 605-BD) in order to assess the impact of
irrigation and flood control projects on fisheries. It also involved the
establishment of a modern carp hatchery-cum-inland fisheries training
facility and was successfully completed in June of 1982. Recently the over-
all project has been compLeted, but a Project Completion Report has not yet
been prepared. Dialogue with GOB on the broader issues of inland fisheries
development has concentrated on increasing inLand fisheries production
through the introduction of upgraded aquaculture techniques.
2.32      The Oxbow Lakes Fisheries Project (Cr. 890-BD) finances hatchery
and fingerling rearing facilities at six individual lakes. The central
hatchery began operating in 1984. Hatcheries at satellite lakes are expected
to start operation in 1985. The stocking of lakes has begun and fish produc-
tion exceeds expectations. However, delays and problems in project implemen-
tation have been experienced because of: (i) organizational weaknesses in



-12-
DOF; (ii) cumbersome GOB procedures and administrative ineffectiveness,
especially with respect to release of GOB funds; and (iii) land acquisition
difficulties. NevertheLess, it is expected that the objectives of the
project will be fuLly met and that the annual fish production from project
lakes will be increased by a factor of eight. As a pioneering undertaking,
the project has great significance for large-scale development of cul-
ture-based floodplain fisheries in Bangladesh. To date, there has been no
involvement of the Bank in shrimp culture development.
III. THE PROJECT
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND RATiONALE
3.01      The proposed project would intensify the production of shrimp in
the coastal area of Bangladesh through introduction of improved
shrimp-culture technology consisting mainly of improved water management and
related shrimp culture practices. It would be physically implemented in five
years.
3.02      Through increasing shrimp production the project would aim to
achieve two primary objectives:
(i) increase foreign exchange earnings through export of shrimp; and
(ii)  increase incomes, economic activity, and nutrition in coastal
rural areas.
Secondary objectives would be to:
(i) improve fisheries administration and extension services;
(ii)  improve aquaculture policies and initiate procedures on the basis
of existing legislation for controlled salt water intake in
polder areas for the purposes of shrimp culture;
(iii) modify GOB's leasing policy for public land to allow long term
leases that are necessary to encourage investment;
(iv)  improve capacity utilization in the shrimp-processing industry; and
(v) improve marketing of shrimp;
At full project development, incremental annual production would consist of
about 1,500 tons of exportable shrimp with a farmgate value of US$7.1 K in
constant November 1985 prices equivalent to an export value of US$8.7 M, and
of about 1,800 tons of miscellaneous shrimp and fish for local consumption
valued at US$1.5 M.



-13-
3.03      GOB accords high priority to the development of improved shrimp
culture. Infrastructure for improved shrimp culture is costly and consists
of peripheral embankments, reguLators, and flushing and drainage channels.
The building of new structures and their integration with existing ones poses
financial, technical and organizational problems which, in the context of
Bangladesh, can only be overcome by public sector efforts. Therefore,
besides investment in physical structures in the main project area
(para 3.04), substantial inputs are required to establish: (i) demonstration
farms and pilot shrimp hatcheries to demonstrate the viability of new techni-
ques to the shrimp-farming community and to encourage private investment; and
(ii) a shrimp culture extension service and training systems for transferring
technology. These inputs would also be made available in additional project
areas (para 3.04) where shrimp production would be supported only by exten-
sion service and credit facilities offered to the private sector.
PROJECT AREA AND STATUS OF ENGINEERING
Location
3.04      A main project area of about 7,000 ha of low-lying, coastal lands
already under shrimp culture would be improved. About 1,400 ha would be in
Khulna district (Polder 20 and 20/1) and 5,600 ha in Cox's Bazar district of
which about 3,900 ha would be developed in existing polders and 1,700 ha on
former mangrove land in Rampur leased by GOB to private shrimp farmers since
1979. Additional project areas of 2,500 ha would be improved through exten-
sion service and credit without public investment. These additional areas
would still be identified during project implementation. The location of the
project areas in Khulna and Cox's Bazar districts in relation to Dhaka is
shown in Map IBRD 18698. Road and river communications in each of the dis-
tricts and main administrative centers are shown in Maps IBRD 18699 and IBRD
18700R.
Criteria for Selection
3.05      The project area includes lands where the three modes of shrimp
cultivation currently in use (paras 2.14 and 2.15) are being practiced. The
criteria for selection take into account numerous physical requirements and
the location's suitability for extensive or semi-intensive shrimp-farming
without adverse effects on existing land-use patterns. For the additional
areas (2,500 ha) where development without public sector construction of
infrastructure is envisaged, these criteria would also be applied. A further
prerequisite would be that the existing infrastructure would permit a water
exchange sufficient for some incremental production in extensive shrimp
culture. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that: (i) the above
criteria which are set out in detaiL in Annex 7 would be applied by the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in selecting the additional areas



-14-
(para 3.07); (ii) BWDB would app-ove the selection by PIU in terms of techni-
cal suitability; and (iii) the proposals regarding che inclusion of addi-
tional areas in the project for implementation would be submitted to IDA for
approval prior to the disbursement of project funds.
Status of Engineering
3.06      Consulting services were financed by UNDP and procured by the Bank
as Executing Agency to carry out the detailed engineering plan and design of
the main shrimp-farming infrastructure. The work commenced in January 1984,
and a Draft Final Report, issued in August 1984 (Project File, Annex 8),
provided the technical data basis for appraisal of the shrimp-farming
infrastructure component of the project. During preparation of the detailed
design, alternative technical solutions were carefully examined before a
proposed solution was adopted. For example, for Polder 20 three alternatives
were analyzed. It was finally decided to keep the Karia River that runs
north-south through the Polder closed at both ends because this represents
the least cost solution, and the risk of river bed siltation through drainage
is small. The report identified a totaL of 8,734 ha of land suitable for
shrimp-farming development of which the following areas were retained for
development under the project:
Area (ha)
Cox's Bazar District
(shrimp/salt rotation on         Polder 70          1,255
privately-owi.ed land)           Polder 66/4        1,283
Polder 66/3        1,361
Subtotal                                            3,899
Cox's Bazar District
(shrimp monoculture on
government-owned land)           Rampur             1,695
Khulna District
(shrimp/paddy rotation on
privately-owned land)            Polder 20 & 20/1  1,430
Total Area                                          7,024
3.07      The consultant's detailed design and cost estimates are generally
acceptable. BWDB would build the shrimp-farming infrastructure in the main
project area and wouLd introduce minor design modifications as found neces-
sary after final formation of shrimp farming groups. Particularly in the
Cox's Bazar but also in the Khulna district, additional areas with similar
status of shrimp farming development are available. To test the feasibility
of increasing shrimp production without public sector investments 2,500 ha



-15-
of additional areas would be included in the project where, supported by
institutional credit, extension service and training, the necessary invest-
ment would be undertaken by the private sector. The additional areas would
be selected by PIU during *..e first two years of project implementation under
application of specific criteria and, after approval of implementation
(para 3.05), credit for on-farm improvements and secondary embankments,
extension service and training would be made available. Detailed engineering
for the PIU hatcheries (para 3.12) would be prepared by the PIU consuLtants
(para 3.19).
PROJECT COMPONENTS
3.08      The purpose of the proposed project is to intensify the production
of high-vaLue shrimp from tidal lands currently being used for low-yielding
shrimp trapping in order to generate income and foreign exchange in response
to demand for such shrimp on international markets. The project would com-
plement GOB's current efforts and create the basis for future programs to
develop coastaL aquaculture within the Fisheries Master Plan that has been
completed in March 1985 and contains 29 projects in the fisheries subsector
over the next 20 years. It would require close monitoring and evaluation to
gain insights for further investments to develop and expand shrimp culture in
suitable coastal areas on a larger scale.
3.09      To achieve the above objectives the proposed project would provide
for:
(i) infrastructure (embankments and water control structures and
shrimp hatcheries) which would permit more efficient water
management in the main project area of 7,000 ha and supply
high-quality shrimp seed;
(ii)  supply of medium-term credit to shrimp farmers, traders and
hatchery operators for financing on-farm investments, marketing
equipment and private hatchery investments;
(iii) institutional support through financing of buildings, equipment,
incremental staff salaries, and incremental operating costs for
DOF and BWDB in order to strengthen their ability to implement and
monitor the project; and
(iv)  technical assistance consisting of: (a) consulting services to
assist a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in project implementation,
training and coordination of project activities; and (b) training
of shrimp farmers and providing fellowships for subject matter
specialists (SMSs) and PIU staff.



-16-
DETAILED FEATURES
Infrastructure
3.10      Embankments and regulators are the principal infrastructure
required to intensify shrimp farming in the main project area. Embanknents
would comprise: (i) mainflood protection embankments enclosing poldered
areas; (ii) secondary embankments to separate the project's shrimp-farming
areas effectively from adjacent Land to avoid seepage of saline water and
aLso to separate shrimp farms from each other; and (iii) pairs of parallel
embankments forming main water supply and drainage channels for a set of
shrimp farms. Where BWDB embankments exist, project financing would
rehabilitate and improve them to the standards required. The cross-sections
of the three main categories of embankments, the general arrangement of
embankments, the location of the main regulator, and the supply and drainage
channel of a typical shrimp farming block are shown in Chart 26928. The
7,024 ha for which detailed engineering has been completed would be divided
into 55 shrimp-farming blocks of about 125 ha each. Each of these blocks
would have one main regulator and consist of several shrimp farms. Land for
the construction of new or modification of existing embankments would have to
be acquired except in the 1,695 ha area in Rampur which belongs to COB and is
leased out (para 3.06).
3.11      A main water control regulator's discharge capacity is designed as
a function of the area to be served and the height to which high tides in the
area rise above the average level of the land. Layouts for proposed project
works are provided in Maps IBRD 18701 for Polder 20 and IBRD 18703 for Polder
66/4. A detailed description of the civil works is in the Project File
(Annex 8). The total base cost of project embankments and regulators without
the cost of land would be Tk 267 M (US$8.9 M). This represents a cost per ha
of major structures of Tk 38,055 (US$1,267).
3.12      Shrimp Hatcheries.  The construction of two PIU shrimp hatcheries,
each with an annual production capacity of about 10 M juvenile shrimps would
be financed under the project for commercial and demonstration purposes.
Hatchery sites would be in or close to the shrimp-farming areas, where water
quality is suitable, shrimp broodstock is obtainable, and the demand for
hatchery-produced juvenile shrimp is high. The type of hatchery required is
illustrated in Chart IBRD 26931 and consists of buildings and tanks described
in more detail in the Project File (Annex 8). The hatcheries would be
designed and managed to produce juvenile shrimp of marketable size. One
hatchery each would be constructed simultaneously in the Cox's Bazar and
Khulna districts. InitiaL demand for hatchery-produced juvenile shrimp is
expected from the monoculture shrimp farms in Rampur, which tend to have
relatively higher levels of production, calling for a supply of uniform
juveniles. As shrimp production intensifies in other areas, demand is
expected to iuicrease. Hatchery produced juvenile shrimp would not be crucial
to achieving projected shrimp production benefits but would help to conserve



-17-
natural shrimp resources by limiting the collection of juvenile shrimp in the
estuaries. Once the hatcheries have demonstrated technical and financial
viability DOF would transfer the technicaL knowhow to construct and operate
hatcheries to the private sector. Interest in hatchery investment already
exists in the private sector, and, accordingly, credit for the construction
of nine private hatcheries would also be provided under the project. The
total base cost of the two PIU hatcheries would be Tk 11 M (US$0.3 M).
Credit Component
3.13      Farm Improvements.  Credit would be provided to finance on-farm
investments in all the project areas. In the additional project areas credit
would also be provided to finance secondary embankments separating shrimp
farms from adjacent areas. Credit is essential because the small land-owners
participating in the project would not have the means to finance the neces-
sary investments as equity nor would they be creditworthy as individuals.
Under the project, loans would be made to groups of farmers under joint and
several liability. In the Rampur area where government land is leased out
and Leases are limited 13.2 ha, the average shrimp farm size would be about
40 ha. Elsewhere the size of group farms would be in the range of 20-60 ha.
Croup farms of 20 ha, 30 ha and 60 ha are expected to cover 53Z, 36% and 11%
of the project area, respectively. On-farm investments would consist of the
construction of embankments subdividing shrimp farms into individual ponds,
including a storage pond and a harvesting channel for each. A schematic plan
given in Chart 26930 indicates the main features of the layout. Regulators
of simple brick or wooden construction would control water supply and
drainage between the farm and the main water supply and drainage channel.
Additional regulators leading into the main stocking area and the storage
ponds of each farm would facilitate water management and the movement and
trapping of stock. Equipment would also be provided for farm improvements
including tubewells, boats, nets, handtools, and other equipment. In parts
of Rampur and in Polder 20, the elevation of some shrimp farms is too high
for a reliable water supply to be maintained by tidal action, and portable
pumps would be included in the farm improvements for these farms. Credit
would also be available for drinking water pumps and village ponds to ensure
an adequate supply of freshwater for human and animal consumption.
Short-term operational funds would be made available by the PCIs but are not
financed under the project. Total base cost of on-farm investments to be
financed under the credit component would be Tk 190 M (US$6.3 M).
3.14      Marketing Equipment and Private Hatcheries.  To improve the quality
of shrimp for export, improvements in handling and transporting shrimp from
farms to processing plants are important. Credit would be provided to shrimp
farmers and shrimp traders for: (i) insulated ice-boxes for temporary storage
of shrimp; (ii) plastic containers to prevent damage to iced shrimp during
transportation; and (iii) construction of small ice plants in remote areas
where ice supplies are inadequate. The construction of nine private shrimp
hatcheries (para 3.12) would also be financed under the credit component.



-18-
The totaL base cost of marketing equipment to be financed would be Tk 14 M
(US$0.5 M). The nine private hatcheries would have a base cost of Tk 46 M
(US$1.5 M). The cost per unit is slightly lower than for PIU hatcheries
(para 3.12) because no residential buiLdings are incLuded.
Institutional Support
3.15      DOF Office Building.  Construction of a new headquarters building
for DOF has commenced on a site at Segunbagicha in Dhaka, but only foundation
piling and some civil works of the super-structure have been completed.
Budgetary constraints are expected to delay completion of the seven-storey,
46,800 sq ft building for several years. Earlier completion of the building
would allow DOF to move out of its current inadequate accommodation earlier
than otherwise Likely. Therefore, the costs of construction of the super-
structure of the buiLding would be financed under the project. The building
has been designed by the Directorate of Architecture of the Ministry of
Public Works and Urban Development. Details of the layout which were
reviewed and found acceptable are in the Project File (Annex 8). Total base
cost of the building would be Tk 14 M (US$0.4 M), and work is scheduled to be
completed during PY 3.
3.16      DOF Project Administration and Shrimp Culture Extension Service.
Under the project, a Project Implementation Unit (PIIU) would be established
within DOF. The most important element of PIU would be a mobile shrimp
culture extension service (SCES). To help alleviate GOB's budgetary
problems, funds would be provided for: (i) salaries of incremental staff
(Project Director, six PIU administrative and monitoring and evaluation
officers, two engineers, 22 extension officers, 12 DFTC officers, six subject
matter specialists (SMS), eight hatchery officers, and support staff);
(ii) vehicles, boats and equipment; (iii) vehicle- and boat-operating costs;
and (iv) office and a limited number of residential buildings for PIU and the
SCES in the project areas. IDA financing of the above salaries and operating
costs would be on a declining scale (para 3.29). Base costs for the com-
ponent without the DOF building would be Tk 62 M (US$2.1 M).
3.17      BWDB Field Divisions.  To ensure the efficient implementation of
construction work, BWDB's field operations need to be strengthened. Two
separate divisions (one each in the Cox's Bazar and Khulna area) would be
created to manage the construction work related to the shrimp farming
infrastructure. Finance would be provided for: (i) incremental staff
salaries and operating costs; and (ii) vehicles, boats and equipment. As for
PIU, IDA financing of salaries and operating costs would be on a declining
scale. Base costs for the component would be Tk 49 M (US$1.6 H).
3.18      Demonstration Farms and Training Centers (DFTCs).  Two DFTC units,
one each in Khulna and Cox's Bazar area, would be established for purposes
of: (i) training extension workers; (ii) training operators of shrimp farms;
and (iii) demonstrating improved techniques in shrimp farming to the public,



-19-
in general, and to fishermen and farmers, in particular. Each facility would
consist of about 8 ha of demonstration ponds, a combined training hall/guest
quarters building (2,700 sq ft floor area) a hostel of (2,150 sq ft) and
staff residential buildings (5,950 sq ft). The ponds of up to 3 ft depth
would be enclosed within earthen embankments. A channel connected through a
regulator to a nearby tidal channel would supply water and drainage. DFTC
sites have been selected and transferred to DOF. A schematic DFTC layout is
shown in Chart 26932. Total base cost for the two DFTCs is estimated at
Tk 16 M (US$0.5 M). Each DFTC would undertake continuous programs of demon-
strating farming systems and corresponding production intensities. Salaries
of incremental DFTC staff, including the farm managers, subject matter
specialists and technicians and support staff would be financed under the
project, on a scale declining over the period of project implementation
(para 3.29).
Project-Related Technical Assistance (PRTA)
3.19      PRTA for Implementation.  Implementation of the project would
require technical expertise in intensified shrimp culture, a new endeavor for
DOF. Furthermore, the project involves a number of implementing agencies and
requires efficient management and coordination. Tn ensure efficiency, the
desired demonstration effect, and project replicability, ibout 120 man-months
(n/im) of internationally recruited consulting services would be provided to
assist PIU in the fields of shrimp farming, project management, training,
engineering/hydrology and various other project related disciplines including
rural development.  The internationally recruited consultant would sub-
contract with a local consultant, preferably a non-governmental organizatioi
(NGO), which would be responsible for the field work related to the formation
of shrimp farming groups (para 4.09). The PRTA for project implementation
would also include vehicles and equipment for the consultants. Total base
cost of PRTA for PIU would be Tk 79 M (US$2.6 M). It would supplement other
ongoing technical assistance, that is designed to strengthen DOF in its role
as policy-making and administrative agency for the fisheries subsector.
3.20      Training and Fellowships.  Dissemination of advanced shrimp-culture
techniques by well-trained extension staff is essential to project success.
Training of extension staff would be imparted by PIU's training staff in the
project DFTCs (para 3.18) and SMSs in their field of specialization. PIU
consultants would play an important role in initial training. The training
would be implemented in accordance with a training plan that would be
annually updated (para 4.09). At a later stage, training in shrimp-culture
techniques would be supplemented by about 20 fellowships abroad for which the
project would provide funds. Also, stipends for the training of about 3,000
shrimp farmers in DFTCs would be financed. The base cost of training and
fellowships would amount to Tk 8 M (US$0.3 M).  The entire cost of PRTA,
including contingencies, of Tk 157 M (US$4.5 M), would be financed by UNDP
under a subproject for which IDA would be Executing Agency.



-20-
PROJECT COSTS
3.21      Project costs, including physical and price contingencies, would be
Tk 1,299 M (US$36.7 M) of which Tk 180 M (US$5.1 M) would be duties and
taxes. Tk 327 M (US$9.2 M), equivalent to 25Z of total project costs, would
be foreign exchange. Details of costs, summarized below, are in Annex 1.
i



-21-
BINLAESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJCT
PROJECT COST SUItARY
(T  MIllion)                            (USS million)
Z Total                                Z Total
Z Forein  Base                         I Foreign  lase
Local Foreign Total  Exchange   Costs  Local Foreign Total Exchange   Costs
SguaJDZJlB* smaa.333   =38 -33   amrre-  Snugs n:rrro -rrrr orr:re:fr -==:
A. INFRASTRUCTURE
LAND                                                30.2       -    30.2         -       4    1.0        -   1.0         -       4
ENDANKNENTS                                         61.9       -    61.9         -        B    2.1       -   2.1                 B
REGLATORS                                          160.1    36.4   196.5        19      25    5.3      1.2   6.5        19      25
VAVE PROTECTION                                      7.9     1.1     9.0        12        1   0.3      0.0   0.3        12       1
HATCH. IUILDINGS (GOD OWED)                          9.1     1.9     9.8        19        1   0.3   01   0.3           1B       1
HATCH. EQUIPMENT (GOB DUPED)                         0.9     0.7     1.4        46       0    0.0      0.0   0.0        46       0
Sub-Total INWRASTRUCTURE                              269.9   39.9  309.9          13      39    9.0      1.3  10.3        13      39
D. CREDIT FIN. SHRIMP FARM.
HATCHERY AND MARKETING INUESTMENT
ON-FARM INFRASTR. AND EQUIPMENT                    153.4   36.2  189.6          19      24    5.1      1.2   6.3        19      24
PRIUATE HATCHERIES                                  35.9    10.1    45.9        22       6    1.2      0.3   1.5        22       6
JMARKETING (FARI TO PROCESSING)                     9.7      5.7    14.4        39       2    0.3    0.2   0.5          39       2
Sub-Total CREDIT FIN. SHRIMP FARM,
HATCHERY AND MARKETING INVESTMENT                 199.0    52.0  249.9         21      32    6.6      1.7   9.3        21      32
C. INSTITUT. SUPPORT PIU AND BIDB
LAND                                                0.5        -     0.5         -       0    0.0        -   0.0         -       0
BUILDINGS FOR PTU                                  21.6      4.7    26.3        19       3    0.7      0.2   0.9        18       3
INCI SALARIES AND OP.
cosTs FOR PRIU                                 33.2      8.7    41.9        21       5    1.1      0.3   1.4        21       5
INCR. SALARIES AND OP.
COSTS FOR BDD                                  26.9        -    26.9         -       3    0.9        -   0.9         -       3
VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT FOR PIU                      6.0      1.2     7.3        17       1    0.2      0.0   0.2        17       1
VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT FOR BDMB                    11.9    10.2   22.0          46       3    0.4     0.3   0.7         46       3
-EONSTRATION FARMS                                  12.6     3.5    16.1        22       2   0.4       0.1   0.5        22       2
Sub-Total INSTITUT. SUPPORT PIU AND DUB               112.6   28.3   140.9         20      19    3.8      0.9   4.7        20      18
D. TECHN. ASSIST., TRAINING
AND FELLOUSHIPS
- - - - - - - -
IMfPLEENTATION CONSLTANTS                          29.0    50.3    79.3         63      10    1.0     1.7   2.6         63      10
TRAINING AND FELLOUSHIPS                            3.5     4.6      0.1        56       1   0.1      0.2   0.3        56        1
Sub-Total TECHN. ASSIST,, TRAINING
AND FELLOMSHIPS                                    32.5   54.9   87.4          63      11    1.'      1.8   2.9        63      11
Total BASELINE COSTS                                   612.0   175.1  787.0          22     100   20.4     5.9  26.2         22     100
Physical Continsencies                               66.3    18.0    E4.1         21      11    2.2     0.6   2.8         21      11
Price Contingencies                                  293.5   134.2  427.7         31      51    4.9     2.8   7.7         36      29
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     971.5  327.3 1,298.B         25     165   27.5      9.2  36.7        25     140
Nom b==e= 2. 15  1:_            =18,==     __  ===== .==  ===._=  ___=
November '.'t 198s 13:18



-22-
3.22      Cost estimates are updated to November 1985.  For civil works they
are based on engineers' estimates. The costs of the other components are
based on actual costs for similar items and past experience. Physical con-
tingencies were, in accordance with experience from other projects, added to
base costs as foLlows:
(i) zero for land to be acquired for embankments and for vehicles
and boats;
(ii)  10X for embankments, reguLators, buildings, incremental operating
costs and staff salaries, office and other equipment and PRTA; and
(iii)  15% for the PIU offices, demonstration farms and residential
buildings, including land.
Total physicaL contingencies amount to Tk 84 H (US$2.8 M) or 11Z of baseline
cost. Price contingencies on foreign costs, amounting to Tk 134 M
(US$2.8 M), were calculated at the foLlowing rates, compounded annually, for
FY86-91: 3.4% (for eight months only), 7.0%, 7.25%, 7.62, 7.65% and 6.05Z.
Price contingencies on local costs amount to Tk 294 X (US$4.9 H), computed on
the basis of 8.0% for eight months of FY86, 12% for FY87 and 10% for FY88 to
FY91. Total price contingencies amount to Tk 428 H (US$7.7 M) or 29% of
baseline cost.
FINANCING
3.23      The financing pattern would be as follows:
Investor   PCIs    BB    UNDP    IDA    GOB    Total
-_-__-_       -----uS  H
A.  Land Acquisition                   -        -       -      -        -    1.2      1.2
B.  Civil Works                        -        -       -      -    12.3    1.3    13.6
C.  Equipment and Vehicles             -        -       -      -      0.9    0.4      1.3
D.  Shrimp Farm Investment           0.9      1.8     0.9       -     5.4    0.0      9.0
E.  Pr. Hatch. & Marketing Inv.      1.0      0.6     0.5       -     1.2    0.0      3.3
F.  Technical Assistance               -        -       -    4.5        -    0.0      4.5
G.  Incr. SaLaries & Op. Costs         -        -       -       -     2.2    1.0      3.2
H.  O&M for Civil Works                -        -       -       -       -    0.6      0.6
Total Disbursement                    1.9     2.4     1.4    4.5    22.0    4. 5    36.7
X of Total                           5.2      6.5     3.8   12.3    60.0   12.2   100.0
3.24      Total project costs amount to US$36.7 H, of which IDA would finance
60Z, GOB 12%, UNDP 122, BB 4%, PCIs 7% and investors 5%. Duties and taxes
are estimated at US$5.1 H or 14% of total project costs. Of project costs



-23-
net of duties and taxes (US$31.6 H) the IDA Credit would finance 70Z, COB OZ,
investors 42, PCIs 8Z, BB 4Z and UNDP 14%.
3.25      About 70  (US$15.4 H) of the IDA Credit wouLd be channelled by GOB
to PIU and BWDB and later recovered, in part, from project beneficiaries
(para 6.06). The remaining 30% (US$6.6 M) would be onlent tc BB at 6% per
annum for twelve years, incLuding four years of grace. BB would bear the
foreign exchange risk on behalf of GOB and retain 2.5% of the 6C onlending
rate as foreign exchange fee. IDA would refinance 80% (rounded weighted
average) of the disbursements made by BB for all investments, and BB would
refinance 78% of PCI disbursements for on-farm investments and 72% of PCI
disbursements for investments in hatcheries and marketing equipment. BB
refinance would be at 8.5X per annum over eight years for medium-term (MT)
loans. BB would refinance short-term loans from its own funds, i.e. they
would not be eligible for IDA financing, and assurances were obtained at
negotiations that BB and PCIs would make available short-term loans to
project beneficiaries in the amounts necessary and in a timely manner. The
PCIs would make direct loans for on-farm investmierts, for construction of
nine privately-owned hatcheries and for working capital requirements to the
ultimate borrowers-individual farmers, groups of farmers, traders and
hatchery operators. The repayment period for investment credit would be 5-7
years, depending on the projected cash flows, and six months for working
capital financing. Repayments would be made according to the annuities
method. The PCIs would provide credit equal to 702 of investment in
hatcheries and marketing equipment and 90% of investments in farm improve-
ments (para 3.13) for individual or groups of farmers. No equity contribu-
tion would be required for short-term lending to farmers. Loans would be
secured by hypothecation of crop, joint and several liability and chattel
mortgage of assets. Land mortgage would only be required in the case of
hatchery loans. The interest rate on the loans to investors would be 16Z per
annum including service charge. Penal interest rate of 6Z per annum would
be collected on overdue loans. The terms and conditions for nnlending are
in line with those adopted in 1984 for agricultural lending on recommendation
made in the Joint GOB/IDA Credit Review (para 2.27). Details on the role of
PCIs in the credit component are in Annex 2.
3.26      Domestic infl.tion for Bangladesh is projected to decline from an
estimated 14% in FY85 .o 12Z in FY86 and to 10 thereafter. The proposed
interest rate to ultimate beneficiaries would, thus, be positive in real
terms. The signature of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOB and BB and
of Participation Agreements between BB and the PCIs reflecting the above
onlending terms would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.



-24-
PROCUREMENT
3.27      Procurement arrangements would be as follows:
Procurement Method a/                 Total
ICB       LCB      Other         NA b/         Cost
~ ~ US$M                    _
Land Acquisition                                              1.2          1.2
(0)          (0)
Civil Works                          13.6                                 13.6
(12.3)                              (12.3)
Equipment and Vehicles    0.7         0.5       0.1 c/                     1.3
(0.5)      (0.3)    (0.1)                       (0.9)
Credit Items (Farm
Improvement, Private                         12.3                       12.3
Hatcheries and Mark-                         (6.6)                      (6.6)
eting Investments)
PRTA (Consultants,                              4.5 d/                     4.5
Equipment, Training)                           (0)                        (0)
Incremental Salaries                                         3.2           3.2
and Operating Costs                                         (2.2)         (2.2)
O&M for Structures                                           0.6           0.6
(0)          (0)
Total                      0.7      14.1       16.9          5.0          36.7
(0.5)    (12.6)     (6.7)         (2.2)        (22.0)
a/ The figures include physical and price contingencies.  Figures in
parentheses are the respective amounts finsnced by the IDA Credit.
b/  Procurement procedures not applicable.
ci  Contracts of less than US$10,000 up to an aggregate of US$100,000.
d/  Procurement in accordance with UNDP procedures.
3.28      The project would require procurement of land, civil works, equip-
ment and vehicles, items to be financed on credit for private individuals,
consultants, training, fellowships, and incrementaL expenditure for staff and
operating costs. Procurement procedures would be as follows:
(a) Land Acquisition (US$1.2 M including contingencies). Land for
the DOF administration building and the DPTCs is already acquired.
Land needed for embankment construction would be acquired by BWDB



-25-
with the assistance of the Deputy Commissioners in charge of the
project districts (para 4.11).
(b) Civil Works (US$13.6 M) would include embankments, regulators,
hatchery facilities, office and residential buildings. All
structures would remain the property of BWDB or PIU. The civil
works for embankments and regulators would be procured by the BWDB
Field Divisions in Cox's Bazar and Khulna districts. Contracts to
be awarded would be small (for example, not more than two main
regulators costing about US$175,000 each would be included in one
contract) and locations dispersed over the project area. They
would also be spread over an implementation period of five years.
Thus, civil works prcCurement would not be suitable for ICB.
About 75 contracts would therefore be awarded following LCB
procedures which IDA has reviewed in the context of on-going
projects in the agricultural sector and found acceptable. They
would include the supply of construction material. Tender
documents and bid evaluations for the first contract for each type
of civil works (earthworks, regulators, buildings), as well as for
each contract exceeding US$200,000, would be reviewed and approved
by IDA before bids are invited and awarded. For all other works,
bid evaluation reports together with the contracts would be
furnished to IDA before reimbursement is sought.
Cc) Equipment (US$1.3 H) would contain: (i) boats and vehicles; and
(ii) office and miscellaneous equipment. Wherever possible,
vehicles and boats would be procured in bulk following ICB
procedures. For procurement under ICB a preference limited to 15%
of the CIF price or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is
lower would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation
of bids. Items which cannot be grouped together and costing less
than US$100,000 for each contract, but not exceeding an aggregate
amount of US$500,000, would be procured following LCB procedures.
Items costing less than US$10,000 for each contract, but not
exceeding an aggregate amount of US$100,000, would be procured
after soliciting prices from at least three independent suppliers
in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Tender documents
and advertising procedures for all ICB procurement would be
reviewed by IDA before bids are invited, and bid evaluations would
be approved before contract award.
(d) Consulting Services (US$2.6 H) financed by UNDP would be
procured by IDA as Executing Agency in accordance with World
Bank principles and procedures.



-26-
DISBURSEMENT
3.29      IDA Credit disbursements would cover:
(a)  90% of contract expenditures for civil works (including
construction materiaL, engineering and supervision of
construction);
(b)  100X of foreign expenditures on directly imported equipment,
100% of the ex-factory price of equipment manufactured within
the country, or 70% of local expenditures;
(c)  80% of amounts reimbursed by BB against PCI subloans for all types
of investments. Disbursement against expenditures in additional
areas would be subject to IDA's approval of their selection
(para 3.05);
(d)  of incremental salaries and equipment operating costs of PIU,
including DFTCs, PIU hatcheries, and BWDB Field Divisions created
for project implementation:
Aggregate
Disbursement              Disbursement Limit
z                          US$ M
95                           1.0
80                           1.3
60                           1.7
40                           2.0
3.30      Full documentation would be sent to IDA in support of withdrawal
applications for items (a) and (b) above except for small civil works con-
tracts costing less than the equivalent of US$20,000 each. For small civil
works contracts and for items (c) and (d), withdrawal appLications wouLd be
supported by certified statements of expenditure. Full actual documentation
would be retained by PCIs for item (c) and by PIU a.zd BDB for item (d) at a
central location and made available for review to IDA representatives on
request. In addition, this documentation would be subject to audit.
3.31      The estimated schedule of IDA disbursements is given in Annex 6.
The disbursement profile reflects the anticipated sequence of sub-project
implementation modified to take account of the experience with the Oxbow
Lakes (Fisheries I) Project (Cr. 890-BD) and the trend in regional disburse-
ment profiles for fisheries and irrigation projects. The profile is also
based on the assumption that disbursements for work done in a quarter would
be completed in the next quarter. Disbursements against subprojects in the
quarters ending March 31 and June 30 would be large. This pattern is due to
concentration of civil works in the six-month period from October to March.



-27-
Project Special Account
3.32      Project works are to be carried out by a large number of small
contractors whose efficiency often depends upon the speed at which they
receive payment for completed work. In the past, payments were frequently
delayed on BWDB projects due to the long delays in transferring funds from
the BIDB head office to the field divisions. Such delays mainly arise from
lack of funds within BWDB and occasionally affect payments for staff salaries
and operating costs. Difficulties are accentuated even more in the case of
project units operating within DOF, such as the one operating the Oxbow Lakes
Fisheries Project. To remove these impediments, i.e. to facilitate payments,
to ensure availability of funds and to reduce the number of withdrawal
applications submitted to IDA, a Project Special Account (PSA) would be
established in the BB into which periodic IDA payments would be made. The BB
would subdivide this account into two sub-accounts, one to be used by PIU and
one by BWDB. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that, in operating
the PSA, PIU and BWDB would follow procedures satisfactory to IDA. An ini-
tial deposit of US$1.6 M (US$0.5 M for the PIU and US$1.1 M for the BWDB
sub-account) representing four months of IDA-financed expenditure would be
made.
Accounts and Audit
3.33      Both PIU and BWDB would maintain adequate records to identify
physical progress and financial transactions relating to the project. For
the PIU hatcheries and the DFTCs which would engage in commercial activities
an accounting system in accordance with normal commercial practice would be
established. Separate accounts would be kept for all expenditures for which
credit withdrawals would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
(para 3.30). Auditors acceptable to IDA would audit the project accounts
each year. The auditors' report would be sent to IDA within nine months of
the close of each fiscal year. It would include an opinion as to whether the
Credit funds disbursed against statement of expenditure have been used for
the purposes for which they were provided. Currently, BWDB's accounts are
prepared separately for each project and are audited by its internal
Directorate of Audits and the Government Auditor General, while DOF accounts
are audited only by the GOB Auditor General. This procedure is satisfactory
to IDA. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the accounting and
auditing requirements outlined above would be met.



-28-
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
4.01      The Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock wilL have overall respon-
sibility for implementing the proposed project through DOF in the Fisheries
Division. DOF will create a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to oversee
physical implementation and coordinate the activities of the other agencies
involved in project implementation. The District and Upazila Fisheries
Officers will be responsible at the regional level for coordination of
project activities with other activities in the fisheries subsector. Main
tasks of PIU in direct project execution wiLl be: (i) administering and
supervising the project's financial management, procurement, and construction
for DFCTs and PIU shrimp hatcheries and office and residential buildings
(paras 3.15-3.16 and 3.18); (ii) coordinating BWDB's construction of embank-
ments and regulators (para 3.10); (iii) supervising consulting activities
(para 3.19); (iv) operating and maintaining two DFTCs, one in Cox's Bazar
aikd one in Khaliganj (Khulna division), for training extension
officers/agents and shrimp farmers in advanced shrimp-farming technology
(para 3.18); (v) establishing and maintaining an SCES for disseminating
technology at farm level (para 3.16); (vi) constructing and operating two
shrimp hatcheries (para 3.12) to supply shrimp farmers in the project area
with shrimp seed and to demonstrate the commercial viability of hatcheries to
encourage private sector investment; (vii) monitoring progress in project
implementation and trends in the shrimp market, conducting baseline surveys
and evaLuation studies to monitor project impact and preparing quarterly and
annual progress reports for submission to DOF and IDA; and (viii) proposing
areas for long-term saline water intake permits (SWIPs) that would authorize
BWDB to open sluice gates of specific farm blocks for the intake of saline
water. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that DOF or another depart-
ment or agency of GOB will be given the authority to grant to shrimp farming
groups or individual shrimp farmers: Ci) SWIPs for land within the main
project area (para 3.06) and the additional project areas (para 3.07); and
(ii) long-term Leases for government-owned land in Rampur at fees which will
be set at levels corresponding to market rates.
4.02      In view of its experience in constructing and maintaining coastal
embankments, BWDB will, in close coordination with PIU, be responsible for
the procurement of all civil works that are financed as public investments
and remain in BWDB's property, e.g. peripheral embankments and regulators.
In keeping with BWDB's experience that one Field Division can handle Tk 40 M
(US$1.3 M) of contract work annually, two separate Field Divisions, each
headed by an Executive Engineer (EE) and under the supervision of a regional
superintending engineer will be set up (paras 4.11-4.12) within the existing
organizational structure of BWDB (Chart 27229). To ensure that structures
are functional for intensified shrimp culture, final detailed designs will
be approved by PIU. PIU will sign construction acceptance certificates
together with BWDB. BWDB will further be responsible for: (i) approving the



-29-
selection of and the proposed civil works in the additional project areas
under application of the criteria set out in Annex 7; (ii) operating the
project structures, once they are completed, under the instructions of the
Operation and Maintenance (O&M} Committee previousLy known as Sluice Gate
Committee (paras 4.12-4.13); (iii) carrying out the annual O&M works, the
cost of which, based on BWDB estimates, will be separately budgeted by GOB;
and (iv) acting as collection agent for direct recovery charges (para 6.06).
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that: (i) BWDB will be
authorized to perform the above tasks; (ii) BWDB wiLl prepare and submit to
GOB annual O&M work plans and budget requests; and (iii) GOB will, each
year, allocate and disburse adequate budgetary funds for project related O&M
works to BWDB.
4.03      BS will enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with GOB and into
Participation Agreements with the PCIs in which the terms and conditions for
subloans to be made by Bangladesh Krishi Bank (BKB), Sonali Bank and such
other PCIs as may be agreed by GOB and IDA (para 2.27) and for refinancing by
BB will be laid down. Additionally, BB will develop and submit to IDA for
approval a banking plan that will contain details on the specific roles of
the PCIs in establishing and maintaining a supervised credit scheme in the
project area. The signature and execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
Participation Agreements and Banking Plan, all satisfactory to IDA, will be
conditions of Credit effectiveness. The PCI staff will be responsible for
field appraisal (assisted in technical matters by the shrimp-culture exten-
sion officers), execution of subloan agreements, supervision of loan utiliza-
tion, and recovery of principal and interest. To perform these tasks effi-
ciently, the PCIs will staff their branches at the Upazila level in the
project area with a quaLified branch manager and at least one loan officer of
class I-officer level.
4.04      IDA would be Executing Agency for the UNDP financed PRTA component
(paras 3.19-3.20) and as such would be responsible for: (i) the preparation
of a project document for approval and signature by GOB and UNDP; (ii) the
recruitment of consultants for PIU including the subcontracting of counter-
part local consultants; and (iii) the supervision of consulting activities.
4.05      Other agencies and institutions with a limited role in project
implementation will be the following: (i) the Fisheries Section of the
Agricultural Division of the Planning Commission which plays an important
role in fisheries planning will have to zpprove the project; (ii) the
Forestry Department will plant mangrove on strips outside the new embankments
constructed under the project; (iii) the Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
will carry out soil analyses and on-farm trials in Polder 20; (iv) the Direc-
torate of Agricultural Extension and Management (DAEM) will be responsible
for agricultural extension in Polder 20; and (v) a PIU representative would
participate in the District Coordinating Committee meetings chaired by the
Deputy Commissioner (DC). The Upazila Nirbahi Officers (UNO) who are chief
administrative officers at the Upazila level, are members of this committee.



-30-
In this way, PIU can request the assistance of the local authorities in
specific project matters and, vice versa, receive a feedback from local
government.
PHASING OF IMPLEMENTATION
4.06      The expected phasing of implementation for the entire project is
detailed in Chart 27230. The sequence and description of essential events is
outlined below in paras 4.07-4.13. More detailed information about implemen-
tation aspects is in the Project File (Annex 8).
4.07      The approval by GOB (Planning Commission and NationaL Economic
Council) of the two Project Proforma (PPs), one drafted by DOF, the other one
by BWDB will be a condition of Credit effectiveness. The PP containing the
DOF part will authorize the creation of PIU with the staff oositions listed
in Annex 7, Table 1; staff appointments will be made according to the
schedule indicated there. The appointment or designation of key project
staff such as the heads of PIU, of BWDB's Field Divisions and of the SCES
would also be a condition of Credit effectiveness. Positions for support
staff would be created and staff recruited in accordance with actual require-
ments. Projections of these requirements are in the Project File (Annex 8).
Assurances with respect to the establishment of PIU and the recruitment of
staff were obtained during negotiations.
4.08      The first and most important task for the success of the project
will be DOF setting up the SCES in the form of three Mobile Extension Units
(MEUs), one in the Khulna and two in the Cox's Bazar area. In the early
stages of the project, extension staff will have to be trained in
shrimp-culture practices. The MEUs, in cooperation with the Monitoring and
Evaluation Officer and the NGO staff (para 4.09) will undertake a baseline
survey in the project areas. The survey is expected to provide more detailed
information on: (i) social and economic structures of the shrimp-farming
community; (ii) organization and management of the shrimp farms; and
(iii) technological development of shrimp farming at the farm level. Such
information is essential to PIU for: (a) planning physical implementation of
the project; (b) monitoring and evaluation; (c) formulating the DFTCs' demon-
stration and training programs; and (d) devising MEUs' field extension
strategies. The survey results will also be useful for the work of the NGO
in organizing shrimp-farming groups. Following the survey, the main tasks
for the MEUs will be to render technical assistance to shrimp farmers in:
improved water management, land preparation, shrimp raising, harvesting and
marketing practices; planning and constructing partition dikes and sluice
gates to be finianced with medium-term credit in both the main and the addi-
tional project areas; preparing loan applications for and supervision of the
implementation of farm improvement credit; and business management of shrimp
farms. PIU technical assistance to rural entrepreneurs in shrimp-hatchery
construction and operation will start as soon as the viability of hatcheries
is demonstrated by PIU.



-31-
4.09      Consulting services financed by UNDP would be procured by IDA on
behalf of COB (para 4.04).  A draft Project Document will be forwarded to
UNDP and, upon appointment of IDA as Executing Agency, the terms of reference
and shortlists of consultants will be discussed with COB.  Approval and
signature of the UNDP Project Document by GOB and UNDP will be a condition
of Credit effectiveness.  The contract for the PIU consultancy would be
negotiated and signed soon after Credit signature so that work can start
soonest after Credit effectiveness. The PIU consultants will have full
responsibility for project-specific training of subject-matter specialists
in the fields of: (i) shrimp farm management; (ii) shrimp fry production;
(iii) shrimp and fish marketing; and (iv) design of on-farm structures. They
will also preparc course material for the training of extension officers and
participate in their initial training, which subsequently will be carried out
by DFTC managers, the Assistant Director Extension and, in their respective
specialization, by the SMSs. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
all training activities will be implemented in accordance with a training
plan to be submitted to IDA for comments by December 31, 1986 and to be
updated annually by December 31. Other tasks for the consultants will be
rendering assistance and technical advice to PIU and BWDB in all matters of
project implementation and coordination. Their manpower deployment would
start as soon as possible after Credit signature, reach a peak in PY2 and PY3
and level off slowly in PY4 and PY5. The terms of reference for the PIU
consultants showing their scope of activities and phasing of field work, are
in the Project File (Annex 8). The PIU consultants will subcontract with
local consultants, preferably an NGO, for the field work related to the
formation of shrimp-farming groups. The consent of all farmers in one shrimp
block will be needed before the detailed engineering for peripheral embank-
ments and regulators can be finalized. Farmers not wanting to participate in
shrimp-culture activities would be offered equitable lease arrangements.
Farmers' land which, despite the considerable gains in income with the
project (para 6.04), is not released for shrimp culture, would be excluded
from participation in the project through appropriate rearrangement of exter-
nal or internal embankments. The grouping would entail frequent meetings
with farmers, farmers groups and Union and Upazila representatives and is
expected to take up to nine months for each polder. Local consultants,
assisted by PIU in technical matters, would be more suitable than civil
servants for this type of field work which requires a high degree of impar-
tiality, motivation, and presence in the area. The local consultant would
have field units working simultaneously in three to five polders and would
shift to another polder as soon as the work in one polder is completed and
implementation of civil works can start.  They are expected to deploy 12 m/m
of managerst services (with expertise in rural sociology and development),
30 m/m for field supervisers', and 270 m/m for field agents in each of
PY2-PY4. Manpower input would be about one quarter of this level in PY1 and
one half in PY5. Detailed TOR are in the Project File (Annex 8).



-32-
4.10      In close coordination with PIU, BWDB will be responsible for the
procurement of civil works, mainly peripheral embankments and regulators from
modification of detailed design through tendering and contract award to
sipervision of construction. The required Field Divisions and staff posi-
tions listed in Annex 7, Table 1 will be created with the approval of the PP
before Credit effectiveness. Appointments to these positions will be made
accoiding to the time schedule indicated in Annex 7 and drawing upon existing
BWDB staff or new recruits. For the purpose of reimbursement of incremental
staff salaries (paras 3.16-3.17), all incumbents of these positions and the
support staff working full or part-time on project implementation would be
counted as incLemental. Salaries of part-time staff will be eligible for
reimbursezent in proportion to their contribution.  Details on the estimated
number of support staff required are in the Project File (Annex 8). The
staff of tte Field Divisions would be transferred to other units after
project completion.
4.11      BWDB will coordinate with PIU's Director, the PIU consultants and
their local counterparts to ensure that the views of farmers' groups are
taken into account in modifying, if necessary, the detailed design for
peripheral embankments and flushing-cum-drainage channels. The land acquisi-
tion procedures (Annex 7, Table 2), which usually take considerable time,
should be started by BWDB, on the basis of the existing detailed design,
immediately after Credit signature. The Deputy Commissioners in the project
areas would be involved at the stage of making cost estimates, issuing
"Notices of Intent to Acquire", holding hearings and administration of funds.
Procedures would be finalized as soon as the group formation for one
shrimp-farming block is completed. Modifications of the existing detailed
engineering (para 3.06) would be done by BWDB's Design Division in Dhaka or
on contract by local consultants. Funds for engineering amendments on
embankments and regulators have been included in the cost estimates. Also,
incremental staff salaries would be eligible for reimbursement under the
project (para 3.17). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that BWDB
will: (i) set up two Field Divisions as outlined above (para 4.10);
(ii) coordinate with the PIU Project Director, the extension staff and the
consultants; (iii) take over the responsibility for land acquisition, i.e
(a) submit land acquisition plans to the concerned Deputy Commissioners at
least nine months before the land is needed for construction, (b) provide to
the concerned Deputy Commissioner the funds, equipment and staff necessary
for verification and approval of land acquisition pLans, and (c) undertake
the steps necessary to have the land required for the construction of embank-
ments in the Rampur sub-area transferred; (iv) modify detailed design, if
necessary; (v) take over all other work related to construction of shrimp
infrastructure; and (vi) review and approve the selection of and the
proposals for civil works in the additional project areas.
4.12      The structures built by BWDB and the land on which they are built
will remain the property of BWDB. Equally, the existing BWDB structures in
the additional areas will remain its property. The operation of the



-33-
BWDB-built regulators will be the responsibility of BWDB staff under the
instruction of the O&M Committee that will be established in each
shrimp-farming block when the shrimp-farming groups are constituted. Commit-
tee membership will incLude:
(i) Sectional Officer, BWDB (Chairman)
(ii) Shrimp Culture Extension Officer, PIU (Secretary)
(iii) Chairman, Union Parishad (Member)
(iv) Member, Union Parishad (Member)
(v) Two or more representatives of shrimp-farming groups (members)
(depending on the number of groups in cne block)
(vi) Two or more representatives rice/salt farmers (members)
(depending on the number of groups in one block)
(vii) Other members from the PCIs, the Land Administration and Land
Reform Department or other institutions, as deemed necessary.
4.13      The O&M Committee will represent one shrimp-farming block, each
including two or more group shrimp farms and have the following main tasks:
i; assist in all matterz related to land use and land leases in the area;
(ii) determine the dates for start and end of the shrimp/paddy or shrimp/salt
season; (iii) advise BWDB on necessary maintenance work; (iv) assist BWDB in
collection of direct recovery charges; (v) assist PCIs in loan recovery; and
(vi) all other matters which have a bearing on the relationship of shrimp
farmers to PIU, BWDB and GOB. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
PIU, assisted by BWDB, will be responsible to set up the O&M Committees as
described above.
MONITORING AND EVALUATIOK
4.14      A Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Cell in PIU and its M&E Officer
will have responsibility for M&E of the project. Monitoring would cover two
distinct phases: start-up and construction, and regular operation. Annual
work programs and budgets would be prepared by both BWDB and PIU. PIU would
work out the program for all project activities and submit it to IDA for
review by May 31 for the following fiscal year. PIU would monitor project
progress during constr:mction and start-up through monthly, quarterly and
annual progress reports to be prepared and submitted to IDA by PIU's M&E
Cell. These reports wouLd include all relevant data on physical and finan-
cial progress and would explain deviations, if any, from targets set under
annual work programs. As soon as the farm blocks would enter the operational
phase, progress reports would include detailed production data and their
comparison with project projections. PIU's M&E Cell would also monitor price



-34-
and market trends at international markets, processor and farm-level. The
SCES would use such information to advise shrimp farmers on the product mix.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that PIU's M&E Cell will undertake
and coordinate all M&E activities.
4.15      M&E of agricultural aspects in the paddy/shrimp rotation in
Polder 20 would be essential. In Polder 20 transplanted paddy is tradition-
ally grown on 1,430 ha from August to December. After harvest the same land
is used for producing shrimp. Farmers so far have not reported adverse
effects on the yield of paddy under this rotation. They grow, however, local
varieties which are more :olerant to salinity than HYV varieties. Farmers in
the area do not apply fertilizers, maintaining that silt deposited during
the monsoon floods contains the necessary nutrients. However, this practice
has not yet been substantiated by soil and water analyses. Yields of paddy
could be increased if fertilizers were applied and supplementary irrigation
given during the dry season in October when salinity of river water is low.
4.16      The availability of supplementary irrigation and drainage would be
ensured under the project by new or existing water control structures. The
level of salinity of river water and soils in the polder would be monitored
to determine the long-term effects of shrimp production on paddy cultivation,
by relating paddy yields to water quality and soil chemistry. Analysis of
soil and silt to determine nutrient content would be undertaken regularly to
ascertain the additicnal fertilizer requirements, particularly nitrogen,
phosphate, potash, sulphur and zinc. Yields of different paddy varieties in
the polder and on control plots outside the polder where shrimp-cum-paddy
rotation is not practiced would also be monitored. The Bangladesh Rice
Research Institute (BRRI) would carry out the monitoring of soils, water, and
yields of paddy under contract for a research subproject to be approved by
the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) which implements the
Agricultural Research II project (IDA Credit 1455-BD). Within the first
three months of the project, PIU would propose a research contract and submit
it to the Council. The research subproject's recommendations would, after
assessment, be disseminated to farmers by DAEM staff. A ratio of one Block
Supervisor for not more than 500 farm families would be maintained by DAEM.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that arrangements would be made
to carry out the monitoring program during and after the project period in a
manner satisfactory to IDA.



-35-
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
PRODUCTION
5.01      Incremental production of the project would consist of exportable
shrimp, miscellaneous fish and shrimp, paddy and juvenile shrimp produced
in the main project area. Incremental exportable shrimp production is
projected to consist of 75% of Black Tiger Shrimp species of the 21-25
shrimp/lb count (headless). Indian White Shrimp of the 26-30/lb count would
contribute 10% and freshwater shrimp of 26-30/lb size would account for the
remaining 15%. At farm level production per ha in the shrimp/paddy and the
shrimp/salt rotation (paras 2.14 and 3.06) is expected to increase for
exporotable Black Tiger Shrimp from 51 kg to 188 kg at full development in the
fourth year after investment, for exportable Indian White Shrimp from 7 kg to
25 kg, for exportable freshwater shrimp from 10 kg to 37 kg and for miscel-
laneous shrimp and fish from 100 kg to 350 kg. The largest part of thie
incremental exportable shrimp production (48%) would stem from the
shrimp/salt rotation in the Cox's Bazar area. The shrimp/paddy rotation in
PoLder 20 would yield about 18% of incremental shrimp production. The
remaining 34% would be generated by shrimp monoculture in Rampur (paras 2.15
and 3.06) where production of exportable qualities of Tiger Shrimp, White
Shrimp and freshwater shrimp is expected to grow from 75 kg to 300 kg, 10 kg
to 40 kg and 15 kg to 60 kg respectively. Incremental production would start
in PY3 in Rampur and reach full development in PY9 with 1,478 tons head-on
exportable shrimp with an FOB value of Tk 260 M (US$8.7 M) in constant
Novenber 1985 prices. This is equivalent to 14Z of the total shrimp export
value in 1982/83 or to about 40% of the estimated value of aqua-culture
shrimp exports. Aggregate incremental production of miscellaneous fish and
shrimp consumed on the farm or sold locally would also start in PY3 and reach
its full scope of about 1,840 tons valued at Tk 46 M (US$1.5 M) in PY9. This
is not a quantity significant on the national level, but it will contribute
to improve nutritional standards in the project area.
5.02      Due to increased agricultural extension efforts, a small increase
in production of local paddy varieties (paras 4.15-&.16) of 114 tons at full
development is projected for Polder 20 and 20/1. Representative farm models
for shrimp in rotation with paddy and salt (no incremental salt production is
envisaged) as well as shrimp monoculture are in the Project Fil>. (Annex 8).
5.03      Under the project 11 hatcheries would be financed, of :which two
would be constructed and operated by PIU and nine by private investors.
Their production would starL in PY2 with 10 M juveniles and build up to 110 M
juveniles in PY6 and thereafter.



-36-
MARKETING
5.04      The incremental production due to project investments would come
from shrimp farms and hatcheries. The farms would produce exportable shrimp
for the international market while miscellaneous shrimp and fish as well as
paddy would be produced for the local market. The juvenile shrimp produced
by hatcheries, both public and private, would be sold at market prices
(para 5.07) to shrimp farmers either within or outside the project area.
Black Tiger and Indian White Shrimp of exportable quaLity would primarily be
sold to Japan and to a lesser extent to the USA, while exportable freshwater
shrimp would be sold to traditional markets in Europe. Export would be in
headless, block-frozen form. This corresponds to the current trade pattern.
5.05      Import demand and prices on these markets are considered favorable
for the near and medium-term future. Export marketing of project output
should not face any demand constraints provided that adequate hygienic stand-
ards are raintained. Bangladeshi shrimp had experienced problems of accept-
ance by the importing countries in the late 1970s up to 1981 when the
processing industry expanded rapidly. These problems have now been overcome.
Relations between Bangladeshi exporters and importers in Europe, Japan and
the United States have developed, based on mutual interest in maintaining
good quality standards; well established processors are not expected to
suffer from discrimination on export markets.
5.06      The incremental export of headless shrimp of about 890 tons gener-
ated by the project, equivalent to 8% of t!he volume of current Bangladesh
shrimp exports (1982/83) and less than 0.4Z of the world trade volume, would
be readily absorbed by the international market. The existing processing
industry suffers from severe under-utilization of capacity and could easily
handle the increased volume of shrimp (para 2.16). Capacity utilization
would increase by about 1.5%. Processors normally buy shrimp through commis-
sion agents, who in turn buy from shrimp traders. The latter are located in
the producing areas and buy at farm level either directly or from another
layer of smaller traders. Competition seems to maintain marketing margins at
acceptable levels. After a 'irst grading according to size, shrimp would be
bought head-on at the farm Level and transported in baskets either as head-
load or by bicycle or by small boat to the traders' headquarters where the
shrimp would be decapitated, graded again, and put on ice in larger transport
baskets. Hygienic standards are low, particularly at this level, and there
is a need to step up the awareness of hygienic problems among all par-
ticipants of the collection chain from the farm level upwards. Ice
originates from commercial ice-plants often many miles away. Ice supply and
prices are often a bottleneck and subject to complaints by the trading com-
munity. Transport from traders to the commission agent, to the collection
center or the processing plant would be by small truck or by boat, varying
with location and season. Project investments would contribute to improving
hygiene and quality, partizllarly in the early stages of product handling.
To achieve this objective the project's credit component finances ice making



-37-
plants and more hygienic handling facilities such as insulated transport
containers. Short-term consultancy services of a marketing expert who could
assist in training PIU's shrimp culture extension officers would also be
available.
PRICES
5.07      Export parity prices for exportable Black Tiger Shrimp used in
economic and financial analysis are shown in Annexes 3 and 4. They are based
on the assumption of a 0.5% increase in real CIF prices in the main importing
countries up to 1990/91 and of constant real prices thereafter. As a start-
ing point, recorded October 1984 CIF prices were used and compared with
shrimp prices existing at appraisal at farmngate, trader, commission agent and
processor level. The 0.5% increase in real prices conforms with the results
of a recent FAO study which forecasts medium-term prices in the light of past
and expected trends of production and demand. The miscellaneous shrimp and
fish produced in shrimp ponds are valued at the current farmgate price,
without a change in real prices in future. Since this fish and shrimp is
only sold locally, the economic price was derived by multiplying the finan-
cial price with the SCF of 0.8. The financial price of incremental paddy
production has been valued at current market prices while its economic price
is projected as an import par_ty price following August 1985 price forecasts.
The price for hatchery produced juvenile shrimp has been assumed to remain at
a level equivalent to the price paid for naturally collected shrimp fry,
taking into account the higher survival rate of hatchery produced juvenile
shrimp which results from the fact that all shrimp fry would be at an identi-
caL stage of growth. Once the hatcheries have established a reputation for
the supply of high quality f- it is possible that prices would go up to
reflect a quality premium and thus improving their profitability. Financial
prices for unskilled labor are current market prices and the SCF has been
used to convert them to economic ones. The Opportunity Cost of Capital (OCC)
is estimated to be equivalent to 12% interest per annum. The economic and
financial prices detailed in the Project File (Annex 8) are summarized beLow:
Financial Farm              Economic Farm
Level Prices                Level Prices
Commodity             (Constant November 1985 Tk) (Constant November 1985 Tk)
1985/86    1990/91           1985/86    1990/91
Exp. Tiger Shrimp (kg)       153        157               164         169
Exp. White Shrimp (kg)       134        137               144         149
Exp. freshwater shrimp (kg)  64          66                72          74
Misc. fish and shrimp (kg)   24.9        24.9               19.9       19.9
Local paddy (ton)          5,698      5,698             4,324       6,350
Salt (ton)                   427        427               342         342
Unskilled labor (manday)      27         27                21.6        21.6
Juvenile shrimp (000')       227        227               182         182



-38-
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
BENEFITS, BENEFICIARIES, AND EMPLOYMENT
6.01      The iajor quantifiable benefits would be the annual incremental
production of about 1,500 tons of head-on exportable shrimp and about
1,800 tons of miscellaneous shrimp and fish (para 5.01) on the main project
area of about 7,000 ha. Other tangible benefits that were taken into account
in the financial and economic analysis are the production of juvenile shrimp
in the project hatcheries (para 5.03) and the incremental production of some
paddy (para 5.02). These benefits would result in increased net incomes to
farmers and would be brought about by improved water management and
shrimp-farming cechnology disseminated by the shrimp-culture extension serv-
ice. The export of shrimp would, at full development, generate foreign
exchange earnings of about US$8.7 H per annum, in November 1985 prices.
6.02      Additional benefits expected from project investments include the
following: (i) production increases from additional project areas (para 3.07)
which are roughly estimated to be 15 kg per ha for exportable shrimp and 40
kg per ha for miscellaneous shrimp and fish, resulting in total incremental
production of about 40 tons and 100 tons respectively; (ii) production
increases induced by the demonstration effect of project activities on shrimp
farms not directly touched by the project and the future effect of the SCES;
(iii) additional production generated by realigned policies on regularized
saline water intake and replacing short-term by long-term leases of govern-
ment land for shrimp culture in areas outside the project; (iv) institutional
improvement Ln DOF; (v) additional shrimp production generated in non-project
areas by hatcheries established in the private sector; (vi) value added in
quality shrimp production through improvement in marketing arrangements, as
well as in hygienic conditions for handling and transport; (vii) benefits
generated by slowing the depletion of juveniLe shrimp resources in coastal
areas through availability of juveniles for shrimp culture from hatcheries;
and (viii) income generated through better capacity utilization in the
processing industry. These benefits have not been incorporated in the
economic or financial analysis.
6.03      While the country as a whole would gain through an improved trade
balance, the main beneficiaries of the income increase would be the land-
owning farmers in the project area. With farm-holdings in the main project
area averaging 1.9 ha, a total of about 3,700 farm households with 22,000
people would benefit directly from project investments. Under the project
the direct participation of small landowners in group shrimp farming
activities would be encouraged. Employment would be generated: first, via
requirements for permanent labor needed to staff PIU, carry out O&M work,
and operate hatcheries; and second, via requirements for transitory labor for
construction activities. Generation of permanent employment would be small



-39-
because no additional labor is required to intensify existing shrimp cultiva-
tion. Compared to the existing situation, improved shrimp culture would
require more labor for harvesting and handling shrimps, but there is compen-
sation by decreases in labor demand for maintaining embankments and
regulators. About 1,000 job opportunities would be generated for O&M of
civil works for PIU, including hatcheries and DFTCs and the private
hatcheries. Transitory labor requirements would amount to a total of about
33,500 man-years resulting from construction of embankments (10,200),
regulators (11,500), buildings (3,000), on-farm civil works (7,800), and
temporary PIU and BWDB employment (1,000).
FARM INCOME AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
6.04      Illustrative farm budgets (Project File, Annex 8) have been
prepared for typical shrimp farms. In the case of the shrimp/salt and
shrimp/paddy rotation these would be group farms covering 30 ha beLonging
to an average of 16 land owners. During the shrimp season the land owners
would run the shrimp operation jointly or have partnership arrangements with
others. During the salt and paddy season, they would farm the land as before
the project. rn Rampur, the typical monoculture farm has 40 ha and is run by
persons leasing the land from DOF. The farm budgets contain: (i) crop model
tables showing per ha yields and inputs, and financial budgets; (ii) farm
models combining the various crops on a farm with production, inputs and
financial budgets; and (iii) labor requirements. It is assumed that all of
the unskilled labor is available in the form of family labor which is not
costed. However, this has no effect on the financial rate of return as no
incremental labor in the "with project" situation is required for shrimp
culture. All tables show the "without" and "with project" situation, as well
as increments; they contain figures on estimare! home consumption and on
expected medium- and short-term credit financing aad are available in con-
stant prices of November 1985 and in current orices. They indicate that the
net cashflows after financing remain pos-tive in all cases. Details on
projected farm incomes for the three farm models, summarized below, are in
Annex 5, Tables 1-3.



-40-
Net Farm Incomes before Financing (Constant November 1985 Prices)
per ha       per Operating Unit    per Household
Without     With    Without      With     Wichout    With
Project   Project   Project   Project    Project  Project
--- ----   000-----
30 ha Group Farm
with Shrimp/Paddy
Rotation               18.0      41.9      539.6    1,258.1       33.7    78.6
30 ha Group Farm
with Shrimp/Salt
Rotation               17.4      41.1      522.7    1,234.3       32.7    77.1
40 ha Farm
with Shrimp
Monoculture             9.2      44.0      369.9    1,761.9       N.A.    N.A.
The figures indicate that incomes are expected to rise by 1332 in the
shrimp/paddy rotation, by 136Z in the shrimp/salt rotation and by 376Z in
shrimp monoculture. The difference between the shrimp/paddy and the
shrimp/salt mode stems from the slightly better profitability of paddy as
compared to salt. Income from shrimp production is identical in the two
modes. The sharper increase in income from shrimp monoculture is due to the
lower annual per ha income in the 'without project" situation. This in turn
is a result of the cost of shrimp production in the monoculture model being
higher than in the other one due to lease fees and annual maintenance cost.
6.05      Financial analysis was undertaken for the three shrimp production
modes for typical 30-ha group farms practicing the shrimp/paddy or
shrimp/salt rotation and a 40-ha farm for shrimp monoculture. Financial rate
of return (FRR) calculations and sensitivity analysis are in Annex 4. For
the purpose of FRR calculation only on-farm investments are treated as
investment cost. The major structures financed by public investment are
reflected in the item "infrastructure charge" in the operating costs of the
farm budget. These charges would be payable by the investors starting at the
end of the record shrimp season following the investment. They are calcu-
lated to cover full O&M costs and achieve recovery of 9% of GOB investment in
infrastructure (para 2.19). The effects of the export cess are reflected in
slightly reduced producer prices. The FRR for each of the three models
exceeds 50%. They are very high because the major infrastructure is financed
with public finance (para 2.19) and the effects of the cost recovery scheme
(para 6.06) in FRR calculations are mitigated because: (i) cost recovery fees
can reasonably be levied only after benefits from the public investments have
started to flow, i.e. in the third project year; and (ii) costs of institu-
tional support are not included in the recovery scheme. Switching values



-41-
indicate that the FRR is very robust in each case (Annex 4). They are more
sensitive to changes in benefits than to changes in costs, and are in the
order of -60% for benefits and over 150X for costs. The FRR of the
hatcheries is expected to be 30%, switching values being -37% for benefits
and 59Z for costs.
COST RECOVERY
6.06      Given the expected high financial returns to farmers, investment
and O&M costs of embankments and regulators built, maintained and operated
with public funds would be fully recovered. During negotiations assurances
were obtained that:
(i) Direct recovery in the form of a betterment levy or licensing fee
for salt water intake would be enforced and coLlected from the
beneficiaries in the main project area. Collection in each
poider would commence at the end of the second shrimp harvest
after the facilities constructed or provided under the project
have started to operate. Direct recovery charges would be levied
at the rate of current term Tk 1,500/ha/year (equivalent to
constant November 1985 US$35) starting in FY89, increase to
Tk 2,500/ha/year (US$45) in FY92 and to Tk 3,500 (US$56) in FY94.
Thereafter the charges would be inflation adjusted every second
year. These direct charges cover full O&M and 9% of investment
costs.
(ii) Indirect cost recovery in the form of an export cess would recover
the remaining investment cost. The cess would start at the rate
of 0.4Z of the FOB value of all shrimp exports of the country in
FY89, increase to 0.7% in FY91 and to 0.9% in FY93 and the
following years.
(iii) Direct and indirect recovery rates could be modified by agreement
between IDA and GOB, taking into account incremental income and
yield levels of shrimp farming obtained under the project,
provided such rates would be sufficient to achieve full cost
recovery or such portion of it as IDA and GOB would agree. Full
cost recovery would include adjustments for inflation and a rate
of return to GOB on investment of not less than 6Z.
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
6.07     The economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is estimated at
27Z. At a discount rate of 12%, the estimated opportunity cost of capital in
Bangladesh, the project's discounted benefits would be US$41 M, and the
discounted costs US$23 K, leading to a net present value in economic terms of
US$18 K. Economic benefits and costs are expressed in constant November 1985
prices. The aggregate streams for the ERR calculation are shown in Annex 3.



-42-
6.08     In the economic analysis, it has been assumed that the project life
is 20 years, with full production development reached in year eight. Unless
otherwise stated, residual values are 100% of the cost of land and 202 of the
cost of civil works. Except for the cost of additional project areas all
project cost items, including the physical contingencies, are included in the
economic analysis. Taxes and duties and price contingencies have been
excluded. In cases where land had already been acquired, the market value
of its cost was introduced. Recurrent costs not accounted for in project
costs, e.g. for hatcheries and demonstration farms, were added. For invest-
ment items with a shorter than 20 year economic life, e.g. pumps, maintenance
costs have been set at levels high enough to ensure replacement. The finan-
cial prices of local costs including wages are transformed into economic
prices by applying an SCF of 0.8. For the economic analysis family labor has
been costed at the prices for unskilled labor indicated in para 5.07 where
incremental labor is required. Sensitivity anaLyses indicate that the
project remains viable under a variety of assumptions regarding costs and
benefits. As shown by the switching values (Annex 3), project benefits could
fall by 43% or lag five years before the ERR would fall below 12%.
Similarly, project cost could rise by 76Z before the project would become
unacceptable. The inclusion in costs of on-farm investment of additional
project areas without adding potential benefits decreases the ERR to 24%.
The project's low sensitivity to costs is about the same for investment and
operating costs. ERR for the total project is lower than FRR for the
individual investments because all cost of institution building are incLuded
in the ERR calculation. Details of the economic analysis are in the project
file (Annex 8).
ENVIRONMENT EFFECTS
6.09    The project would not have any detrimental effect on the environment.
Intensification of shrimp culture under the project would only take place in
areas where it is already practiced. Neither the existing land-use pattern
nor the present e'.oLogical balance wouLd be changed. Positive effects would
be achieved through: (i) elimination of salt water seepage into adjacent
agricultural lanc by construction of appropriate boundary embankments; and
(ii) efficient and timely water exchange to leach out salt from soils for
paddy cultivation in Polder 20. The further spread of extensive
shrimp-farming operations into agricultural and forest land would be coun-
teracted by: (i) the project's contribution to realign GOB policies on salt
water intake and lease of public land; and (ii) demonstrating the financial
rewards of intensified shrimp culture. The project would not cause harm to
other riparian States nor would it be harmed by the use of water by such
other riparian States.



-43-
PROJECT RISKS
6.10     There are various project risks.  However, due to the robustness
of both the ERR (para 6.08) and the FRR (para 6.05), none of them would
endanger the viability of the project as a whole or of individual project
components. The two most important potential project risks in economic terms
would be a substantial reduction in world market prices for shrimp or in the
envisaged shrimp yields.  As to prices, the project would be able to absorb a
decline in benefits of up to 43Z before it would become unacceptable. This
percentage is higher than the price fluctuations experienced in the world
market since 1974 and, at present, there are no indications that the prices
of the species and counts of exportable shrimp produced by the project
beneficiaries would face a substantial price drop on the main export markets
(Japan, EEC) in the medium-term. As to the envisaged yields, the risk of not
attaining them is small, because the technology for intensified shrimp cul-
ture is simple and well developed and the planned production level is rela-
tively low.
6.11     There would be some risks of inadequate or delayed implementation.
These risks can, however, be reduced by good planning. Therefore, steps
would be taken to minimize these risks, e.g. by recruitment of PIU consult-
ants. The on-going efforts to strengthen DOF (para 2.25) would also con-
tribute to assure better policy support and improve institutional
capabilities. Implementation slippage is frequently caused by inadequate
public sector financing.  While the financial capabilities of GOB will cer-
tainly be strained, GOB has indicated strong commitment to the project which
should be enhanced by the prospect that funds spent for the structures will
fLow back through cost recovery. Shortages of public funds experienced in
the past would be overcome through the use of the PSA (para 3.32). Tne
construction of shrimp farming infrastructure could be delayed due to cumber-
some administrative procedures, slow speed in the formation of farming groups
and delays in land acquisition. However sensitivity analysis shows that the
ERR would drop to 22% if a two year lag in construction of shrimp culture
infrastructure and related benefits occured. The risk of not achieving
benefits in the additional project areas as a consequence of inadequate
structures would be minimized through PIU's and BWDB's involvement in the
selection of polders and their approval of civil works (para 3.05).
6.12     Other risks would be related to the occurrence of flooding and
storms. Enclosing embankments in the main project area are equal in height
to BIDB coastal embankments and it is estimated that their height gives 3 ft
of free board over the highest river flood level that can be expected in a
100-year period. The risk of over-topping is, therefore, very smaLl.
Cyclonic storms, in addition to producing very high wind speeds, create
surges in water level which cause widespread damage and loss of life.
However, the effects of a cyclone are local. A direct hit could be devastat-
ing to the affected area, but is very infrequent. In Bangladesh, cyclone
activity is experienced once in 5-10 years. Only Polder 70, which represents



-44-
18% of the main project area, has parts directly exposed to sea waves. Other
areas are much more sheltered and local wind drawn waves plus over-topping
water levels would cause erosion, but rarely 100% destruction to embankments.
Risks to regulators would be much smaller. Local failures could result in
total or partial loss of production. In estimating O&M costs, provision has
been made over and above normal O&M costs to replace 10% of embankment volume
in seven years. Resulting crop losses of 50% in 10% of the affected area
would cause in two of 20 years of project life a 5% change of total benefits,
to whtich the ERR is not sensitive.
6.13     The very intense rain storms sometimes experienced in the project
area can cause over-topping and damage structures thereby interrupting the
growth of the shrimp and reducing the crop. This risk is, however, not very
high, because it is possible to control the water level by operation of
gates. Damage from any single storm is expected to be confined to a very
small part of the project area and repairs would be made quickly.
6.i4     The infrastructure is designed so that in eight out of ten years
tidal levels will be more than adequate to fill the ponds to desired levels.
But in the two remaining years the production would have to be limited to
that attainable with a water level of 1.6-2.5 ft instead of 2-3 ft as
designed. Production figures have been averaged accordingly.
6.15     Lack of maintenance would pose a risk.  Embankments settle because
they are built very crudely and on very poor soil. It is essential to main-
tain them by adding earth to keep up their cross-sections. It seems unlikely
that slow settlement would be allowed to go so far as Eo endanger the shrimp
crop. The only maintenance require..ients for regulators is to keep the gates
in good condition to limit leakage losses. Maintenance of regulators is
simple and should not create a special hazard.
6.16     Risks arising from technical design problems in the main project
area are not very likely, because designs are simple and the same items are
repeated many times.



-45-
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were be obtained from COB that:
(a)  the selection of additional areas would take into account the
criteria specified in Annex 7, and proposals for their inclusion
would be submitted to IDA for approval (para 3.05);
(b)  on-lending terms and conditions for loans from GOB to BB, from BB
to the PCIs and from PCIs to beneficiaries would be as set out in
para 3.25, and laid down in a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between GOB and BB and Participation Agreements between BB and
the PCIs (para 4.03);
(c)  DOF or another department or agency would be given the authority
to grant for the project area: (i) long-term saline water intake
permits (SWIP), and (ii) long-term leases for government-owned
land (para 4.01);
(d) BWDB would: (i) be authorized to operate project structures, and
(ii) each year prepare and submit to GOB and O&M work plan and
budget requests, and perform ma, * nance as required
(para 4.02);
(e)  GOB would establish PIU, create staff positions, and recruit staff
in a timely manner (para 4.07);
(f)  PIU would carry out all training activities in accordance with a
training plan to be submitted to IDA for comments by
December 31, 1986 and to be updated annually thereafter by
December 31 (para 4.09);
(g)  BWDB would create two Field Divisions, re   it or designate staff
for them and take over the assignments including land acquisition
as outlined in paras 4.02 and 4.10-4.11;
(h)  PIU assisted by BWDB would set up O&M Committees as described in
paras 4.12-4.13;
(i)  (i) By December 31, 1987 legislation would be enacted and all
other measures be taken to set betterment levies and the export
cess at levels that would ensure full cost recovery, (ii) the
recovery system would be implemented starting July 1, 1988,
(iii) charges and levies would be revised every second year
thereafter to take account of actual investment and OEM costs, and
(iv) recovery charges would be collected with due effort including
appropriate measures against defaulters, e.g. revoking of salt
water intake permits (SWIPs) (para 6.06).



-46-
7.02      Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be: (i) approval by GOB
of the two PPs for DOF and BWDB authorizing the creation of PIU and BWDB's
two Field Divisions with the staff positions outlined in Annex 7, Table 1
(para 4.07); (ii) signature of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOB and
BB, Participation Agreements between BB and the PCIs and Banking Plan, aLl
satisfactory to IDA (para 4.03); (iii) signature of a UNDP Project Document
for the PRTA component by both GOB and UNDP (paras 4.04 and 4.09);
(iv) appointment of key project staff (para 4.07); and (v) submission of a
banking plan by BB to IDA (para 4.03).
7.03      With the above assurances the project would be suitable for an IDA
Credit of SDR 20.6 M (US$22.0 M) on standard terms.



-47-
IBALADESH                                      ANNEX 1
SHRIIP CULTIRE PROJECT                               Table 1
Sudru Account, bh Year                               Page 1
(Tk '000)
Base Costs                          Forein Exchange
1        2         3         4        5       Total        Z    Amount
ur_=ruuu   unnussts flSEEsas uWteuZt: UDrugtfl:urnmn:urt:aga   :ue  urreuuas
1. IIESTMENT COSTS
A. LAND ACQUISITION
SHRII FARMING IFR ASTRUCTURE                          49016.5  7.171.9  11,035.4  7,880.0         -   3^0103.8   0.0         0.0
PIU HATCHERIES                                              -    136.0         -         -        -       1M1.0   0.0        0.0
PIU BUILDINGS                                            84.2    337.8      33.5         -        -       455.4   0.0         0.0
Sub-rotal LAND ACIGISITION                             4t100.6  7.645.6 11,068.9  7i990.0            -   30,695.2   0.0         0.0
B. CIVIL WIS
SHRI8P FAR1MIN INFRASTRUCTURE                               - 54,545.5 llp92.0  69t,,'9.9  8,412.8  244,740.2  15.3  37.390.2
PIU HATCHERIES                                          266.6  9,479.7    100.0          -              9,848.3  19.1   1,779.0
PIU DOSTRATION FARMS                                  4,74.1  6,530.6    463.5           -         -   11,768.2  18.1   2.127.5
PIU BUILDINGS                                        12,094.5  13p352.7    833.1         -         -   26,2B0.4  17.8   4,66.'
ENGINEERING AND DESIGN                                3,271.4  4,612.6  3,299.7  1t958.6               13,142.3   0.5       66.0
Sub-Total CIVIL MORS                                    20,408.6 B8,521.3 116,6BB.4  71.74.4   8-412.2   3^5,779.4  15.1  46,029.1
C. EQUIPMENT AND UVEICLES
HATCERY EDUIPIW                                            -   I419.9         -         -         -    1P419.?  46.        53.9
_EMTRAIN FARM EQUIPMENT                              1563.1  1,508.6          -         -        -    3,071.8  44.3    1.35?T4
PIU OFFICE EQUIPMENIT                                 508M.5  2P179.1          -         -         -    7P268.6  17.0   19235.?
PIU VEHICLES                                          2,246.9  5P604.5         -                  -    7,851.4  47.2   3,702.7
PIU BOATS                                               106.6  1,188.3         -         -        -    1,294.9  15.0        522.3
31DB VEICLES                                          3,976.9  2i816.9         -  1,299.9         -    8,093.7  47.2   3,819.3
BUD8 BATS                                            1355.5  1i207.3          -         -        -    2,562.8  45.9    1,176.
Sit-Total EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES                        14,33B.4  15P924.7        -   1,299.7        -   31,563.0  39.7   12,534.2
D. SHRIIIP FARM, PRIVATE HATCHERIES
AND MARETING INVESTENUT
ON-FARM  CIVIL  RS                                         -         - 17,763.7  219900.4  7,893.0   47,557.2   0.0          0.0
ON-FARM  CIVIL IIORK
ADD. PROJECT AREAS                               13,447.3  17u229.3  12401!.2        -         -   42,694.8   0.0         0.0
ON-FARM EQUIPIENT
MAIN PROIECT AREA                                       -        - 249235.5  28,551.6  12,909.8   65,696.8  35.1  23,059.4
ON-FARM EWUIPMENT
ADD. PROJECT AREAS                               10P597.5  13s579.5  9,469Y.         -             33v6t 9  39.1  13t167.8
HATCHEY CIVIL VIRKS                                   1,073.6  2v505.1         -  23,977.2  11,988.6   39,544.-  18.0   .,126.1
HATCHERY EIUIPMENT                                          -        -         -  4,259.7  2,:29.9    6,389.F  46.C   2,942.3
MAREn NG                                                    -  3,982.8  7965.5 1,268.4   1,199.B    14,4! .5  39.4   5,679.1
Sub-Total SHRIMP FARMD PRIVATE HATOIERIES
AND METING INVESTMENT                               25,110.5  379295.7  71.453.7  79,957.3  36,121.1  249,946.3  20.8  51,974.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                     63,966.1 149,387.3 199,211.0 160,995.7 44,533.9  617,984.0  17.9  110,534.1



11. mEuRIm   cOM
-4.8-                                          ANN1X 1
A. tECiicaL ASSISTANOE. TRAININO                                                                              Table 1
aO FEULWIP8                                                                                               Page 2
PIU OT41ANTS (rOE11N)                               9.619,2  13.74L,m  10.347.?  10,293.1  5S030,6   49,032.4  87.0  42i649.7
P10 CISULTANTS ILOCAL)                             I1B62.1  39BB3.9  3,O83.9  2,096.1  1.192,9   13,519.!   0.0            0.0
IEHICLES , 30TS9 AND EQUIPFENT , PIU CONSULTANTS    2W2OW.2  46121.5     57.1        -   l.062.l    7o468.9  45.7   3P410.5
OP. COSTS VEHN. PIU CON9LTANTS                       46.1   2016.7  2.016.7  24016.7  2p.57    9,253.9  46.0   4,256.3
FELLMNIPS                                             892.3   594.8          -   14784.5  1,734.5    5056.1   90.3   4,566.9
DNESTIC maIwiNm                                       305.9    509.9    713.8    764.9    764.9    3059.1   0.0           0.0
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEP TRAINING
AND FELUO75IPS                                    15,534.4  24P868.5  17,019.2  16t955.1  13v012.6   87.389.9  62.9  54,893.7
B. PIU AND M3 E2UIPNT. OP. COSTS
PIU MATA  AND VEHICLES                                569.4  29226.2  2s226.2  2P226.2  2.226.2    9,493.3  46.0   4,366.9
NDJ MOATS AND VEHICLES                              1.333.1  2.339.1  2,339.1  2,664.1  2,664.1   119339.6  46.0   5,216.2
DEOTRATION FARM EIUIPICNT                                 -      15.6     30.7      30.7     30.7       107.8  46.0       49.6
Sub-Total PIU AN WD8 EGUIPFT. OP. COSTS               1921.5  4.591.0  49596.1  49921.1   4921.1   20.940.7  46.0   9,632,7
C. INCREIENTAI. SALARIES
PIU SALARIES                                        1.943.9  3,844.4  4,949.0  49949.0  4.949.0   20,535.2   0.0           0.0
No SALARIES                                         5.385.6  5.395.6  5,385.6  5,385.6  59385.6   26.928.0   0.0           0.0
Sub-Total INMNTAL SILARIES                             7,229.5   9.230.0  10,334.6  10,334.6  109334.6   47463.2   0.0        0.0
D. 0 1 N FOR CIVIL WRUS
011 EINIUNS                                               -      10.5    459.5  1.127.3  19419.3    39016.6   0.0          0.0
GEN REGULATORS                                            -     42.9    977.8  2P245.7  20768.9    6,035.0   0.0           0.0
CN UWAE PROTECTION                                        -        -       5.3    106.7    202.8        314.9   0.0        0.0
OGE WEMR. FAIM BUILDINGS                                  -    143.2    339.1    353.0    353.0    1.1889.    0.0          0.0
GEN PIU BUILDINGS                                         -    362.9    763.4    789.4    78B.4    29703.1   0.0           0.0
Sub-Total a i N FOR CIVIL 1413(8                            -    559.3  2,545.2  4,621.2  5.532.3   13.258.0   0.0            0.0
Total REURRW   COSTS                                      24.685.3  39t239.8 349495.1  36.831.? 33P800.6  169,051.8  39.2  64516.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                                       896514. 18fU626.1 233,706.1 197.717.6 789334.4  7874035.8  22.2  175050.6
Physical Cantingmnies                                    99412.4 20v266.0 23.473.2 21,940.5  9?070.0   84,062.1  21.5  189044.3
Price Contingencies                                     16,200.6  59.583.6 105,313.6 152.?49.4  93.641,3  427s6B8.5  31.4  134.230.1
Total PROJECT CQSTS                                       114,264.5 268,475.9 362,492.9 372.507.5 iS81045.8 1,29S9786.4  25.2 3279324.9
Taxes                                                   17,451.4  39,157.1  42,409.3 50,497.1  29,997.0  179p501.B   0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchanie                                        31PM.2  65,335.7 72,101.1  99.129.9  59.986.1  3279324.9   0.0          0.0



MIr CLTURfE PuEr
,                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~Phoolcal COtcnUtln0      Pric Ci.ot,Ut.ln                                                        Phm,ca
li COStS                                                                                                 Total Ihcl. Cant.              Cmt. 71 SP InStC        t
.. . _.__ ....... _._ It,l  ......................tLocal               .P--t-  Cot.  frift COO.
LOw l      l (Etc]. kti"  I    for. (Eal, PtAlN I                       (Enl. utm     I                     Local (Eal. kOtin I             m               INICo  mkw
For. ELch.   ICXn)    Tlxr    Total    xch, Tons)  Tasm   total   For. Loth. 700    t?xo   Totll)   for, Eva.   tTono               Tr       Ttal        Cmt. *        ott
1. IM27RUt  COSTS
A. LAS NcDuJsI2T2
-._..._.........
ut Ml F            uulA  -0 FRASTRUCTU                                 -   1          .W.5  s l .  -   79.       -   79.3           -   125.4            15.4           *      12U.2          - 12.2.2           933        1,274.9
Plu I2T0OUIES                                                -         4.5      0.0      4.5                                                        o  -0.5  0.0    0.5  *5.0                0 e       s                         55.
PIU SUILAW .                                                          14.9      0.3    15.2       -    2.2      0.0    2.3           -    1-d 0.0    I,                            15.7      0.4    29.1           2.5          26.0
Sub-total LASN   UISITIU-                                             1.022.0      0.3 1.02.2 .J1.5                0.0   I2.d           -  237.5       e.0   2*7.0                 M22          .4  29M.3             5.5       11106.5
A. CIVIL VMS
Mlii. rFA  IUW2RMSTRIETIkE                              2.2.2      0.1453    746.4  #1150.0  124.6  014.0    70.0   513.         544.1 1.377.0   211.5 2.113.2    12915.0       3,l.5 12es4.5 11P07.           2,009.7      10,097.3
PIU 11t14  l9                                            59.3        M30 f     3.7   326.3  11-7   41.1    12.7   05.7           10.5   25.1       6.3   44.3        32.6        271.4    5.2    43L.            73.0         343.2
PrW  K)UTMIIOS FAMS                                       70.9       251.1    70.3   392.3   7.1   251          7.0   39.2         9,3    19.9      0.6   36.0        17.3        296.1    04.1   467.5           42.5         425.6 
PIU IUI61N                                              155.5       549.2   171.2   170.0  23.3   75.6    21.5  127.4            20.5   42.5   125.    75.0         29.4         670.3   212.3  1.012.0         I7.5          944.6 
E NEERIS AN  ESIP                                          2.2       432.5      3,3   431.2   0.2   43.3        0.3   43.3         0.3   02.6       0.2   03.3         2.7         316       2.9   54.2           49.,        495.0
Sub-Total CIVIL WORS                                      1,5343      7s.93.5  2074.9 10,92.0  167.1  e02.    122.2 lI01.9          564.0 2,527.    243.0 21355.1    20210        9*913.9  1.40,.1 13214100       1.312.3     1W27.7
C. EWIPMlIT AM  MIMCLES
204tt00  r.6r1n                                           21.3         7.9    17.7    47.3                    -                    3.2    0.6       2.4    0.4        25.0          6.7    20.1    53.7                        53.7
ISTJ161101 FAR" EWIPIOtT                                  45.1        t3.2    38.9   102.4   4.5    1.3         3.9   10.2         5.3    1.4       4.0   10.7        25.1         21.3    46.9    i3.3           11.2        112.1
PIU OFFI(E (E2u6In                                        41.2       136.1    03.0   242.3   0,2   20.7         9.4    3.3         4.4    7.1       4.6  125.5        51.3        25.9    70,5   294.2            3.'         22.*
PIU ff2301ES                                             122.4        36.2   100,1   201.7  12.3    3.8    20.0   20.2            17.0    3.4    12.5   12.6         152.7         45.4   122.&   320,7           29.2        291n.
PIU I3A1S                                                1294          7,5    16.3    43,2   1.9    0.7         1,0    4.3         3.0    0.3       2.3    0.2        24.4          9.o    20.2    53.6            4.9         46.7
Nu 4E2ICL1S                                              127,3        39.4   102,1   269.3           *                    -       26.3    3.0    13.1   43.7         153.6         4.    121.9   31.s                -         16.5
Ml 01ATS                                                 3".?         2J.2    33.0    85.4       -       -                         4.2    0.3       1.2    6.1        43.4         14.0    3.1       3.5             -         93.5
j-totoI (WUI t #912  M   015tLS                            417.7       202.3   372,1  12052.   25.0   27.1    25.0   77,1           63.3   17.3    47.2  1213          506,0        307.2   444.1   ,57.            3.&       1173.9
0. MliiP FA. P51!ATE HIT0OIES
AN NAVIN IE 11005
2fAR-   CIVIL WS                                             -      2.565,2       - 1515.2       -   256.5            Ise.s          -  455.          -  455.            .      2199.6        - 219.6             00.0       1999.6
A-Fr ClIlL 11XS
AO,n 9e0l   m                                            -      1.23,2        - 1423.2    -.  142.3                42.3              159.4        -  1S4             -      17249          - 172.9           250.3       IS.1
01r  E01M11T 
O l-OUM  lPItlf                                      706.0        739.3   032.9 229.9  76.9   71.9    63.2  219.0            556.0  234.2   191.1 1.26,4    1.403,6    12,22.s 1,260.2  19592.3              326.6      32057 .        7
06W. 1,00        4N,9                                             321.6   304.1 1.121,6  43J.    31,    36.4  112.2          70N7    35.7    54.4  160.7         m.S         330.1   454.6  1,394.5         120.0      1,207.7
2ATO0T  CIVIL   5                                       237.5       320.4   25.2 12311.2  47-5  164.1    50.3  262.4            271.0  275.2   140.4  086.5         55.0       1,205.0   44s.4  24207.1         37.1 1,0.5
2AI210  EWIPNI7                                           9.I          15.4    79.5   213.0       -      -        -       -       93.2   10.9    62.6  100.6         12l.3         40.3   142.2   379.1                       379.1
WlErI3g                                                  189.3       119.0   172.3  4U0.5  13-.   12.9    17.2   43.1             5.5   29.4    43.4  12U.4          263.;        200.3   22.9   657.0            59.7        Wt7.2
SU-TtaIl SHMII. FtM PRIVATE 207t02IE1
MS IVSAMZI INSMSIT                                    eI732.5     5.097,2  1,502.0  W3,335  137.2  567.0   167,7  f42.5    lo046.5 19200.6   092.9 2,942.0    209".,           0,65.3  2,303.0 22,213.1       1,240.4      106.7
olal I24S1)2 1 CSTS                                         3,064.5    23,903.7  2949.3 244.5  379.3 24,    314.9 2.293,0    2.290,4 2933.8   9`2.2 5,612.4             5760.2    11-311.3  4,240.4 23404.q         2,736.1      2s,6.7



11. KCSM7 C01 t3T
_...............
11.MItXlL  <151TA         1"1"
ADMWVLW503PS
.. .......
PIU CUlTUILTM(1  (FOU1W)                                        1.421.7         211.5       12  1.634.4  142I 2       24.1       0.2  16.5           623.4    41.7        0.2   665.        21117.2          277.4        1.6  2o466.2            227`4        21226J
FIUll COSLTANIS ILXALI                                                          440.7        2.o    450.7        -       17.3     0.3    67.6 J                  92.7       0.4    93.1                        60*,7        2.1     611.3            79,7           531.6
MIIULS    IOAII * ANID EIUIlMEI    * PIU C0ttL NIS                113.7          J7.1       16.2    ;47.0   11.4        1i        9.6    24.9           37.2      5.0      26.      IT.0         IU-.2          41.0      132.      342.3            11.2           Jll.7
WP  COTS 15 4.. PlU CONSIATMII                                    141.9           43       1203    306.5   213          6.9      11.0      416         101.1     12.1      72.4   115.6          264.2           4514    210.7    540.3              105            4U7.1
FTUWa In                                                          152.2           16.3         *    16U5   15.2         1.6          *     6.9         121J3      4.4              132.7         295.7           22.3               311.1            26.9          2M1.
mOISIC IMINI                                                          -         1 102.0              202.0             1 1.2              10.?             *      5.13              25.J3                       117.5               13175            12.5           125.0
.........................................  ................  ............... .................... , ..... ....... ........ .......  ..........  .......... ........ .......  .......... ............ ........ ........   ......    ............._._-__
U-1b0oll TItCINICN  ASSIUANCEP T1I6I O
AMDW FLLWIIIP                                                 1129.5           563.9    29o7  2,913.0  190.0   114.1            2831   332.13          89,     HIllJ      99.7 1170          2.94           10159.2    3U.6  4.16                  450.2        3,66.1
3. PIU MW UN IUWPDT. OP. CSll
PIP  fTiAND MA     I U1tLEtS                                      2456           47.5    127.4    IN6A4   14,6          4.7      12.3    Jl.l           93.3    11.1       67.0   171            252.4          63u.t    202.t    520.0              47U            472,7
VA  INAIl M       1W    5 YIOI                                    173,9          54,7    147.1    373.0   17.4          5.7      14.7    37.3          110 3    13.4      79.1   202.3          301,5           75.1    24112       13.6            Sil2          5U62.3
UCRUSIATIU Fr   111U191                                             1.7           0.5        1.4       3.4     0.2      0.1       0.1      0.4           1,2      0.2       0.19      2.3          3,1            0.7       2.4       4.2             0.              53.7
.. . ...... .......... .           ....... .  ..:. ..... .              ..... ..   .......... ....... ........ .......   .........  ...... .... .. ..... ........ ____. 
Sb-Total fllu   IO We 11o1 1, W. CTOST                               321.1          104I 7    2723    4n 0   3J21          10.5     27.2    69,           2043      25.2      147A0   37.0          553.0          140.4    444.5  1.144,1             104.1         1,00.7
Cs IlaSMlTlL SAtA*lt
C.   ................. 
Flu 5U1S                                                              *         674.2       10,3    604.5              67* 4      1.0        5*   165.7                     2.5   161 I                        107.3       13.      921.1               ?          13.1  7.4
IV"3   " lS                                                                     696          1.3    397.6              1 96       0.1    1.1                    19.7        0.1   239.9                      1.17505       1Il  1,177.3             107,0        I1010.3
Sub-Ttoal I AW     .L  5611*                                                     1570.5        11.6  1.5,1           *   157.0       122   153,2                   355.3       2.7   351                *       2,002.9       IS.S 21 09n.4            It0o'         11107.6
o. o i a rw CIYIL m$
.._.................
O   t     IEI41s                                                     *           `1.5       2.0    100,6        -      9.9       0.2    10,1                    33.3       0.7    34.0                         14117       2,9    144.              13.1           131 4
OmIIUAIUt                                                             *         10711        Ie0    20102        *     1707       014    21               *      41 U.O    I         704            *          212.7       S.l    Mt?7              21.           262.4  
01OI5witt OTCIIM                                                                 10*3       0.2      10.5       -      1.0       0.0      1.0                    3.*        0.1     3.9                         15.1       0.3         A               4            1120 
OM  K1UTI. FM    IUIIUIN                                                        3n.1        0.1       39.6       *      3.9       01       4,0                   11l1       0.2     11,3                        53.1       11       54               5.o0          4.7
010 U PI   ILO3IN                                                     *            16.3      11       P0o1       *    1132        O.3    23.5                    26.1       0.5    26,6                         127.6       2.6    130.2             17.0          113.2
Sub-Total 01 N FM  CIVIL *                                                          4133.1       .6     44.9       7     .477         10       0 .7            .   140.2        29 743I1                           621U0      12.7    633,7             62.0           571,0
..... ............ ........ ........  ..... ....... ........ .......  ,.,.,...... ....... ... ..... ....... ,..........  ,,,,   ....,........  ...,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,, ,,,,.... ......_.  .. ... .. . .   ..... I-
Toltl uAIiR        CtOlS                                               2slO0.        2,972.1    512.4  5.35,1  222,1   32714            57.    6990        1f0i 4,7   702.0    252.3 240.1           3447.4         4.002,S    62292  1.213,1              107.1        71U4.4
Total                                                                   5.0350        1.37o6  3.4617 261234.5  61. el Is2,2    372.4 2.eo2,1                  291s1 3o .11 1.234.5 7.UI,4               9227,6       22.401,1  5.0686 36.690,0            3.545s         33 2152
, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ................................                                                                                                                         .......................... .. ...... ...... .. .........................



-51-                                                     A1r 1
-~~~~~~~~N                                            I
ainAe                                                      TWble 3
SO  19 OLIE FiLET                                                 Page 1
Sumur kcmft by Tear
TEWsb litujlm  C,tdinamcLu                         Totals I,tIuiii  Coit1ei~tus
(lb 10001                                         cmSS low)
1       2        3        4        5      TOtl         1      2      3       4       5    Total
_ -_                         -                  -    _    _ -                         -
1. D         USII TS 
A. LW  iI5I1I
9S1  F115 1JST3EIE                               5.. 9e.6U.0 U151.4  13321.0              -   44,516.2  150.1  27.    469.3   3).0         - 1.2632
M MIIIMIES                                            -    172.7        -        -        -      172.7       -    5.0       -       -      -     5.0
FEu  ; S9J                                         110.1   493.4     5.3         -        --     50        3.3   14.3    1.5        -      -    19.1
Su*-Tow LACMISM=                                    51U63.7 10320.0 16.572.2 1332.0          -   45,346.9   193.4  2M.    470.0   370.0       - 19292.3
L CIIL I
S9W  FFIIN  1T3E3                                    - 76P741.9 17315.4 1 12,619.6 17,509.2  33.100.1       -27224.4 4#91f.3 3.491.4  471.? 1,107.0
pl mOWE5                                           369.0 14576.7   16f9.         -        -   15.14.0   10.9  4M.5        4.3       -      -   433.3
Fri MDBM I'  FANS                                6,0.3  * 20.2    718.4          -        -   LS1m9T   18D.4  26.7   20.4           -      -   467.5
rA  Nai.e                                       16437.0 19,514.5  13M.9          -        -   36,976.4   47.7  su.0    33           -      - 1092.0
E93151338  3 5B1                                 4.11.   6P446.0  51.0  3.310.?           -   13899      122.3  13.3  144.1   92.0         -   545.2
S*-Total C      IIL                                26,601.1  5U.4 I47.3 10.5 17,U50.2  130,140.    739.4 3p6U.4 5.126.  3,513.3  471.9 13.640.0
C. EEfHT mS UES
*TCNOD    IE01                                        -  16.1           -        - -           l- of.l.      -   53.7       -                   53.7
6191M83       FMA  E ITW       -                 2043.5 s2z,.4         -        -        -    42tS.Y    60.6   62.7        -              -   1Z.3
mm F     m 0ErI                                  6 M76  3v20.6          -        -        -    MM93.    201.1   93.1        -              -   24.2
on maw                                           2,97.3  3PC..          -        -        -   10,995.3   37.2  233.         -       -      -   320.7
tIR   is 1534  1706.7                                                   -        -        -    1.345.0    4.1   49.5        -       -      -    53.6
_    w                                           4.72.?  3,612.0        -  2 n572.6       -   10,981.5  140.3  10W          -    71.5      -   31M3
m  TS                                             .U6e.0  1577.1        -        -        -    3,187.1    47.     5.W       -       -      -    93s
S-uToital E 1fA  U101ME.                           11233.6 32.230.?        -  2.572.6       -   43,7.2   541.1  64.           -    n.5       - 1P257.5
-. geg F11. F   T    ITRE  IOIES
8  anL    5                                           -        - o2792.3 37,022.2 14.677.3   79.m7           -      -   775.5 12.4  3956 2.91A
D*FF a nL Mm
AIL FUECT    8                               1694.0 24,069.5 13M.4              -      -   5,474.5   502.5  697.7  524.7        -      - 19724.9
lwlfmlli EIIITW
IUl F14SCT mm                                      -        - 30.01435 5355g3.  32,360.S  127 433.5      -      - 1,010.0 1.62.6  Z5.7 3,592.3
11 EWUVEI
A9. MISET                                    13MM2m.0  19,433.0 14U372.7      -       -   480'7.8   40a.7  563.3   422.5        -      - 1,394.5
USlTCUD  CUVILa                                  1,474.9  34M.0         - 434.3.  2,561.7   32,193.5   43.3  110.7          - 1.343.3   69.3 2.267.1
1T13EiIr fWI                                           -       -        -  3,76.5  5A.9   13d3s.4            -      -       -   m-7  147.1   37V9
inTIW1                                                -  5.71S. -12P54.9  24335.3  2599.2   23.193.?         -  16S.7  356.3   64.9   70.1   457.0
Sub-Total 931 F.   tIE  4103t1E5
AM iiET11   LSINWE I                           32,190.9  ,0363.5 II .230.4 154.652.2 34,137.2  435t207.2   954.9 15137.3 3.15.1 4.295.? 2.2 7.8 12,215.1
Total DIAEBIT0 OUTS Cl2,14.3 212.133. 3U.240.4 29.5o6.4 101646.4 1003m51.3 2,439.7 6.1W40   315.3 82320.7 2739.8 2.B404.?
-___ .__ .                   _e    -                    =~~   =-  -_-



I. REONMU OMTS                                                                -52-
A. TEDtU  AESSTrSCE. T                                                                                                                    D i
An rels                                                                                                                            Page 2
Pig CUO 7TS t( Si)                              12,686.0 19MA0.M  16409.2 23.300.5  14,13.7   B7v1=.0   V6.4  575.7   466.2   647.2  400.7 2,46U.2
pnl    SLTMTS (LOCAL)                            :.452.4  5672a.  6,24D.1  3M7G4.4   345.4   21.55.1   72.J  161.4   177.3   102.1   93.9   611.3
V =ES  * MATS * rd  EDiIEIIT * PIU CLTMTs        2.104.4  5,92.9-     C.5         -  361.3   119977.2    85.6  1717         2.5       -    3.1   342.8
oW. COSTS V.1 MIU CITItS                             2.7  3.083.2  3.324.2  4,380.9  7s5M..   1940.1   26.2:   .J    94.4   127.2  204.6   540.3
FaL&Amzps                                        1.174.5     1.          -  44047.4  3411.7   11,403.2    34.9   24.9         -   112.4  145.9   318.1
BoESoC TR*11                                       335.2    72.3  1,097.0  1I2M2.8  1,42=.1    *59.4    1:.4   23.6    3:..:    Z.9   33.3   137.5
Sub-Total TEDINIIW  4 1STIU  Tw1N141111i
AM FBaL PS                                     20,445.2 36,3.5 27V 9.0 36926.0  35,857.    5t.46.0.  607.3 1,012   771.6  1.23.   tU.-. 4.41:.:
3. Pig W  gm    IPU. G. osrS
M iUTS 1D WaCIES                                   763.9  3o199.6  34510.1  4a37.0  6320.1   le3635.7    Z2.0   92.7    9.7   :34.4  :70.6   Xc.0
MM  ATS AM 1ES0                                  1.742.2  3,3U.9  3.69.1  537BB.4  7.593.2   22.143.7    51.7   97.4   104.3   160.8  203.9   613.6
anWTI*l  FMi  0W07T                                    -     72.5    48.4    66.7       37;2      224.8       -    0.7      1.4     I.9    2.4     6.2
S*-Tutal Pll AM111 EBIPOM. BP. CISTS                2PS11.1  6.35.9  7246.6 10692.2  1370.4   41.004.2         4.3  190.    20.       97.0  376.4  1,144.
C. DiJEROL SLURE1
PD SAES                                          2.322.0  5,370.9  7.605.6  *.366.2  9.202C    32,37.4    68.9  15.7   2U.1   232.4  24.81   921.1
3 SIA*IS                                         6.M7.0  7,324.2  3876.6  9,104.2  10.014.7   41,701.6   201.2  213.1   23.1   2.9  269.Y 1,177.3
S.r-TatB1 D1 ITK IL 91*1E3                          19103.9 12.MI5.l :M.82.2  17.470.4  19,217.4   74369.0   270.1  33.8   451.   493.3  5U.0 2 .0.4
P. 0 11I Ft CIVL O
am   ENTS                                              -     14.7    706.1  1.90M.7  2.639.2    5.26.1              0.4    20.1    52.9   71.1   144.6
eu 5E3*AT6                                             -     59.7  1,32.7  3.796.2  s3,48.7   10.37.3         -    1.7    42.7   10s5  133.    253!.7
am Nw  PR01ECTIS                                       -        -      0.2      0.4    377.0      365.6       -       -     02      I..   10.2,   :5.4
MPt' . 993      nD FIN UhLISIS                         -    200.1      1.    596.       656.5    1,974.6       -    3.     14.8     U.   1.7    54.9
DU nu juJLDIUS                                         -    s30.0  1,i6.6  1393.4  1.5M.7   *4.62.6           -   L4    34.3   3IL        41.3   130.2
Su*-Tota1 D 1 N FO CIL LM                                -    304.5  3.964.   7472.  10P354.1   22.995.              23. L L.    28.           .    63 .7
rotal o0;ra COSTS                                      32c.2  36341.9 S4U .5  72*961.1 7Y39.3  29 3.1   951.9 1WM3.: 1,341.3 2,26.7 2140.1 e.:n.1
Total FrBEcT a0s                                       114,264.5 2U6P415.8 362.492.? 372.507.5 s   1.048 1v.71,7.4 3390.6 '.731.M? I0.290.! I0,37.4 4,37.9 36.67.0
=           -      ....           . -   _        -           n..     ....                    ..      ......................... a_ n  a_  _ 



ANNEX 1
Table
SHtD  CILTURE PROJECT
Pro.het Cowonfts hi Tear
cm Nillim)
Total
n6~~~~~~~~~~(s,
1    2    3    4    5       Tk    illiom)
A. INFR*S1JCTIRE
LMU                                            4.0  7.3 U.0  7.9    -    30.2    1.0
EIILWEJ,TS                                     0.4 12.1 27.2 18.7  3.5    61.8       2.1
RI/EATfRS                                      2.9 46.9 E.5 52.7  8.5   196.5    6.5
O"E FROTECTIO                                   -  0.2  4.1  3.8  0.9        9.0     0.3
HP701. NJILJDS (60 am)                         0.3  9.5  0.1    -    -       9.8     0.3
RT01. EDIIPIENT (013 OUDI                       -  1.4    -    -    -        1.4     0.0
Sub-Total 1IFRASTRDCT3IE                         7.6 77.4 127.9 83.1 12.8   308.8    10.3
8. CDIT FIN. SRINP-FvR,
HATDERY  U MRXEETING IUESTIENT
ON-FR INFRJSTR. OM EGUIPMEjT                  24.0 30.8 63.5 50.5 20.8   189.6       6.3
PRIUWTE HATCEIES                               1.1  2.5    - 23.2 14.1    45.9       1.5
NRRETID  (FARN TO PROCESSING)                   -  4.0  8.0  1.3  1,2    14.4        0.5
Sub-Total CREDIT FDN. SHRIIP FMU,
HATOER  AND IMWET3I  IIENTSENT               25.1 37.3 71.5 80.0 36.1   249.9       8.3
C. INSTITUT. SIPPIRT PID AND MUD
LAMB                                           0.1  0.3  0.0    -    -       0.5     0.0
IfLiDIGNS FIR PIU                             12.1 13.4  0.8    -    -    26.3       0.9
nic. Sm.RIES  u.
COSTS fOR FIU                              4.8 13.2  7.9  8.0  8.0    41.9       1.4
INCR. SALRIES AND W.
COSTS FOR  DB                              5.4  5.4  5.4  5.4  5.4    26.9       0.9
VEHICLES AND E 0IPIENT FDP PID                 5.1  2.2    -    -    -       7.3     0.2
W IDLE5 AND EOIIPIENT FOR J4DB                 6.7  6.4  2.3  4.0  2.7    22.0    0.7
DEIIOSTRATION FAN                              6.3  8.2  0.8  0.4  0.4    16.1       0.5
Sub-Total INSTITU1. SIF99RT PIU NM1DB           40.4 49.0 17.4 17.7 16.4   140.?    4.7
D. 7EON. ASSIST. TRAININM
MM FESULSR
IEJATIM  MOLTITS                              14.3 23.8 16.3 14.4  10.5    79.3      2.6
TRAINIEN MD FELLOUISHPS                        1.2  1.1  0.7  2.5  2.5       8.1     0.3
SbTotal TEOHN. ASSIST.i TRAIeNDi
MD FELLOUSI                                  15.5 24.9 17.0 17.0 13.0    87.4       2.9
Toral USELIIE COST5                               88.7 188.6 233.7 197.7 78.3   797.0    26.2
Physical CDmtin*oeius                           ?.4 20.3 23.5 21.8  9.1    84.1        2.8
Price Continnencies                             16.2 59.6 105.3 152.9 93.6   427.7    7.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                              114.3 268.5 362.5 372.5 181.0 12998.0    36.7
Taxes                                           17.5 39.2 42.4 50.5 30.0   179.5       5.!
Foreian Exrhaide                                31.8 65.3 72.1 98.1 60.0   327.3       9.2
Noveber 22, 1985 13:14



-54-                                                ANNEX 1
soNIGLAR                                             Table 5
-M OLTRE PRUET
Project Cam mts hi Year
Tous Icluding Cantinuoi.s          Totls Including Catinim     s
(Tk Nillion)                      CM$ Hillion)
1    2    3    4    5  Total    1   2   3   4   S  Totl
A. IFATUTE
LAND                                              5.1  9.8  16.5  13.3    -   44.7   0.2 0&3 0.5 04   -  1.3
ElN3II                                            0.5 16.8 41.8 31.6  6.4   97.2  0.0 0.5 1.2  0.9 02  2.7
REGtLATWRS                                        3.6  66.1 132.4 96.4 17.5  316.1  0.1 1.9 3.8 2.7 0.5  8.9
WE PROTECTN                                         -  0.3  6.3  6.0  1.7   15.1    - 0.0 0.2 0.2 0.0  0.4
HATCH. BUILEDIGS (GMB OIlED)                      0.4  14.6  0.2    -    -    15.1  0.0 0.4 0.0   -   -  0.4
MATCH. EDOIENT (603 OIlED)                          -   1.9    -    -    -    1.9    - 0.1   -   -   -  0.1
Sub-Total DlRASTMUCT1K    -                          9.5 109.5 197.1 14B.2 25.7  49 0.0  0.3  3.2  5.6  4.1  0.7  13.9
P. CRIT FIN. SIM  FARN,
IATDERY AND MRETDI  INIESTl1NT
GI-ARF IJFRASTR. AND EGUIPHENT                   30.7 43.5 98.7 95.6 47.5  316.0  0.9 1.3 2.8 2.7 1.3  8.9
PRIVATE HATCNERIES                                1.5  3.8    - 56.7 34.0   96.0   0.0 0.1   - 1.6 0.9  2.6
MRKETING (fARM TO PROCESSIN6)                       -   5.7 12.5  2.3  2.6   23.2    - 0.2 0.4 0.1 0.1  0.7
Stib-Tot CREDIT FIN. SINRIP FARNP
HATOERAtWMlARKETING IIWESTNENT                  32.2 53.0 111.2 154.7 84.1  435.2  1.0 1.5 3.2 4.3 2.3 12.2
C. INSTIIJT. SJ'PORT PIE AND KDW
LAND                                              0.1  0.5  0.1    -    -    0.7  0.0 0.0 0.0   -   -  0.0
BUILDINGS FRWPIU                                 16.0 19.6  1.3    -    -   37.0  0.5 0.6 0.0   -   -  1.1
DICR. SAARIES MD BP.
COSTS FOR PIU                                  6.2  18.9 12.3 14.6 17.1   69.0  0.2 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.5  1.9
DOCR. S5LE AND OP.
COSTS FOR Be                                  6.8  7.5  8.3  9.1 10.0   41.7  0.2 0.2  0.2 0.3 0.3  1.2
UEHICLES AND EouIPnENT FOR PIID                   6.8   3.2    -    -    -   10.0  0.2  0.1   -   -   -  0.3
UEHICLES AND EGUIPIENT FOR BIDB                   9.1  8.6  3.7  8.4  7.6   36.3  0.2 0.2  0.1 0.2 0.2  1.0
DENMISTRAIN FARNS                                 8.1  11.6  1.3  0.7  0.7   22.4  0.2 0.3  0.0 0.0 0.0  0.7
Sub-Total INSTITUT. SUPPORT PIU MD NO DB            52.1 69.9  27.0 32.7  35.4  217.1  1.5 2.0 0.8 0.9 1.0  6.2
D. TECHN. ASSIST.. TRAINIIG
AND FELLOMISHPS
IMPLENENTATION CONSULTANTS                       19.9  34.5 26.1  31.6 29.0  140.1  0.6  1.0  0.7 0.9 0.8  4.0
TRAINING AND FELLOISHIPS                          1.6  1.6  1.1  5.3  6.8   16.4  0.0 0.0  0.0 0.1  0.2  0.5
Sub-Total T'ECH. ASSIST., TRAINING
AND FELLUOSHIPS                                 20.5 36.1  27.2 36.9 35.9  156.5  0.6 1.0 0.8 1.0  1.0  4.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  114.3 269.5 362.5 372.5 181.0 19298.8  3.4 7.8 10.3 10.3  4.9 36.7
November 22M 1985 13:15



s3w6 CULIUiE MtECT
FtinarcI Plan bv SuaaarI kcmts
(M1 '000)
IMSTOR          PCI            Is           lIS              IDA            991            Total
........ ..__ -.-...-........--------   ...........................                                                  Local (Oct.  Mi"  I
hAmt  2    A1ma        I        b k   I Z  Aa        2 AA11t   I           uAit   Z        eat    2    For. Cxdh.        Tim)l       T s
, ". s _ _ass sw  " *w"8 ._ ....Bassoon.............................................1..1.....................=...........           as*
1. INISTIENT CO9TS
. .........
A. LAND AUIZITION
...... .........
SHRIMP FANRINIW            ff                                -  R-                             -                              -  1,211.2 100,0   l2,2J2   3.5             -       12d.2
PIU  ATM--ICS                                                                                                      -                 s.0 100.0        5.0   o.o           - asoo                 0.
PIU IUILDINIS                                                                              -                                        19,1 1000        19 .1                -           1.7         04
.. . ....... . ..  ._. ..... ....   ..__. .... .....  _  ..... ._ ...  .....  . .. . .. ....   ....... .. . _...  _.... ..
Sub7Total LAD AUISITION                                                                                                          -        s.m 100W0   Im.3   l.5             - is9.                 0.4
3, CIVIL IV S
S1H2IM  FANIN  INFRASTRUl-                                                       --                     -          9,9,39.0  1.110.7  10.0  11,107.0  30$2    1,915.0              9,137.5   1,05411
PIU HIIA   IES                                                                                                 -      11.1 t0.0     43U.  10.0      43.3   1.2         81,6         271,4       6.2
PIU KWlTRATIOI FArs-                                                                                                 420,3 00       46.  10.0       4a7.5   1.3        973          296,1       341
PIU DUILDINGS                                                                                                        973--  90.0    106.2  10.0   1,O02.0   209       1"4           670GM      212,3 31
ENGIWOII  AD KISN                                                   -490.7 90.0                                                     s4,s  Joto      54342   1.5         2.7         S.P6        3J.        Yt
Sub-Total CIVIL NOS--                                                                                                12,276.0 90.0  1,364.0  10.0  136400  37.2    2M2OM0            99139   1440o1
C. EUJIPIflT MD VEHICLES
H41CHEJY EGUIPINT-                                                                                                   34.9 65.0      11.1  35.0      53.7   0.1         25,0           h.7      20.1
KMtCIIA N FA  EiUlITfflT- -10.2 65.0                                                                                               432  35.0    123,3   0,3           55.1          21,3      46.9
PIU OFFICE EGUIPIENT-9112 65.0   103.0  35.0    294,2   0.9                                                                                                           51.3         515.9      76.5
P:U VEHICLES                                                                                                        201.5 65.0   152,3  35.0    320.7   O.S           152,7          45.4     122.6
PIU WCAIS                                                                                                             MS 65.0       18-3  33.0      534   0.1          24,4          9S0       20.2
MCI NDIEHLES                                                                                                        207.0 65,0    111,5  35.0      153.s   0.9        153.6          42.9    121.9
NiD, BOATS                                                                                                           60,3 65,0      32.7  35,0      93.5   0.13        43.4          140       36,1
Sub-Tatal EPlIfNIT MD VHICLES                                                                                          S17.1 MO    440.1  35.0  1.257,5  3.4            50610         307,2     444.3
Do SEll?P FAR. PRIVAIE HATCERIES
AD MARETING INWSTMENT
........ ... .. ........
ON-FARM CIVIL WORKS                                      220.0 10.0    439.  20.0    329.  153.0        -     -   I.209S 33.0        0.0   o.O   2,199,6   6.0           -        2,199.6
ON-FAM  CIYIL  MS
AOD. PROECT AWAS                                     172,5 10.0    345.0 20.0    25.7 15.0          -     *     S94,7 55.0       0.0   0.0  1,724,9   4,7             -       I724,9          -
ON-ARM EOUIPIENT                                                                                                                                                                                      I
MAIN M CT AREA                                       3592 10,0    715.3 20,0    338,955,0           -     -   5,975   55.0 090   0.0   3,59n.3   9.S           1,403,t        1,102.5   1.016,2   1 
ON-FA  EWUIPIENT
ADD. MA.ECT AREAS                                    139.4 10.0    279,9 M0    209,2 15.0                 -     767,0 5.60       0.0   0.0   1194.5  31,9        55135          3U6.1     454.   ' 
MATCHERY CIVIL VMOlS                                     110.5 30.0    453.4 20O    340O1 1.0           -     -     793,5 35,0       0.0   0.0   2,267,1   6.2       56.0         126,6       445.4
HATDERY EOUIPMET                                         113,9 30,0     76.0 20.0      57,0             -     -      1329 3500       0.0  0,0      379S3   1.0        191,3          46.3     142.2
AWUXT1t                                                  17lt57.5 3O    131,4 200      o.55.0           -     -     22, t 35.0       0.0   0.0     657,0   I.e        263.7         160.3     232.9
.... ..    .... ...    .... .... ...... ... ........ ...  .... ....  ..... .....  .......... ...........  .....
Sub-Total SHRIP FTAR   MIVATE HATO(RIES
AND MARETING IESTNT                                   1.N2.3 53.4  2.4340 20.0  1132,3 15.0            -     -   61057,5 496        0,0   0.0  12t215.1  33.1     2968.2         6,35.3   2,361,6
Total INESTENT   SITS                                        192*3  6.6  2,443v0  3.6  1,32,3  6.5            -     -  19,150.9 674  309o6.4  10.9  29O,4.  77,4          50760.2      1,399,3   4.246.4



11. REMNT COSTS
A. 1E0I1CAL  ASSISETAC   TAININI
AND FELLOSHIPS
. .*..._.....
PIU CESILTANTS (F0WIINJ                                    -   -         -   *         -    - 2,6.2 100.0          -   -       0.0  0.0  2,444.2   6.7    2P137.2            27.4        1.
PIU COuLTATS (LOCL)                                        -             -        -   -   -    6214 100.0            -   -        .o   0.0    61.3  1.7             -         60.7        2.6
WHIM.ES . MOATS I NO ECUIN    p lu CM       TTS            -   -         -                       342,3 100.0         -   -      0.0  0.0    342.3  0,9          162.2          46.0    132.6
Wo CMTS Wit, PIU COSNUL1AE1S                               -   -         -   -         -   -   540.3  00.0           -          0.0   0.0     50.3  1.5         264,2           M.4    210.7
FILL4IPI                                                   -   -         -   -         -   -    312.1 100.0          -   -        -    -       315.1  0.9       2957           22.1l
DOSTIC TRAININ                                             -    ^        -   -         -   -    237vs 100.0         -   -         -    -      I37.S  0,4            -         I27.          -
S,h-Tatal  MAICAL ASSISTANCE, TRAINING
AND #MLOMS,NIPS                                           -   -         -   -         -   -  4,416.2 100.0          -   -      0.0   0.0  4,416.2  12,0    290.4           1,159.2    147.6
1. PIU 110 MISS EJIPNY, OP, COSTS
...  . ............... . ..
!:U  IATS AMD  UEUCS                                                               - 33.3 6-.1    131,7  34.9    5200  1.4                                      M34           61.0    2M2o
Nl35 MTS   W      U-4035 6 -                                             --5 U.2    215.0  34.1    6116 2 .7                                                    301.5          75.1    241.2
IIIOSUATIE FAIl EOUIPIEII- -3.3 60.                                                                                             2.5  39.5       6.2   0.0         3.1           0.7       2.4
Co Totl lU MIAARUIJST  .W6OTS7- 45.6 65,1    399.2  34,9  1144.0  3.1                                                                                             553.0         140.4    444.5
C. 2IIElIEN    SALARIES
PIU SM2IES                                                                         - *24.9 67.3   296.2  32.2    521,1   2.S                                        -         507.1      13.1
N       . SAIA-IES                                                                                              846.2 71.    331.1  23.1   1177.3  3.2              -       1o1g5.        l.S
Sb-Total INCWETLM. SALARIES                      -471,O 70.1    W7.1  29,9   20M,4   5.7                                                                             -       202.         1S.
o. 0 1N FMR CIVIL  Mge9
OLI fOA     S                                            -    -        -    -        -    -        -     -                 I44.6 l100.     144.6  0,4            -         141.7       2.9
0U 111  ATOAS-                                                                                                                211.7 100.0     216,7  0,3            -          22.9       5.3
OMN IAIE  ROUcT-                                                                                                               1504 100,0      15.4  0.0            -          15.1        0.3
am NI TR. fI                                        .--LDIS-                                              -54, 100.0                           54,   0.1            -          53,3       1.1
aim PIU 3IILINS--                                                                                                             130,2 100.0    130.2  0.4             -         127,6       2.6
S-Tatal 0 1 N FOR CIVIL Ws                                                     -633.7 100.0                                                      633,7  1.7            -         6210       12,7
Total IE    T  COSTS                                                  -        -   -         -   -  4416,2  53.3  2W216.7 26.7  1.t60,2  20.0  3,29M1  22,6    3,467.4             4,003.5     2.2
Total ODlbu,s.nt                                            1.962.3  5.1  2434.0  6.7  1332.3  5.0  4,4162  12.0  21,367.55.2  4.756.4  13,0 u3 96,0 100.0    9,W27.               22001.3   5046,10
in,u   murM wo MMmM#2   xm332 1221  mroullorro ,. - 311 1UUM11113 31331  11RIICISI 111=13 Sm=   a"=1   aammm=M88  21MM  mm
............. . .............           ............................... _._ _ . ._..._ 
lloreb   229 IMI  13:20                                                                                                                                                                                  N:



-57-
ANNEX 1
T2ble 7
SEIW COLi   MIECT
ri ,wi na bu Pijat Cnwuta
DlJEST        FCI        le          Ul           IDA        03          nhut            Local
Far.  (E,el. DIutie S
bmrt 2   A_li  2   burnt 2          _un   Z   burnt 2   I-t  2   burnt  2   Excd. Taxes)  Taws
a  _   ,la            _ a  ma _    _ .  em   S    _m  eas  ara si                    ._-we   15ff
A. DXRNSTIItTE
LAN                                                                                             -   -    1.3 100.0    1.3  3.5      -    1.3       0.0
D_OA-                                                            _                            2.3 85.3-   0.4 14.7    2.7  7.5      -    2.7      0.1
IEiTI                                                                                          7.8 in.'    1.2 13.1    0.7 24.3   1.7    6.1       1.0
INIE RJEC-IL-                                                                -                 0.4 90.0    0.0 10.0    0.4  1.2   0.1    0.3       0.0
HATIW. N LDiSt (GM m )                                      -0.4 e9.0    0.0 10.0    0.4  1.2   0.1    0.3                                       0.1
1N141. sEDXrfT (ESo    -)0. -5.0    0.0 35.0      0.10.1   0.0    0.0                                                                             0.0
ShTot u!W,=URE                                     -           - ----10.9 70.7    2.9 21.3   13.9 37.8   2.0   10.7                                  1.2
1.  WIT FM.  5EW FEE,
HA1TO4W AM HETIK fllLCSIIEm
OtIFUR DFSMI. ND EUIPIWI                       0.9 10.0    1. 2J.0    1.3 15.0      -    -    4.9 55.0    0O  0.0    0.9 24.3   2.0    5.4        1.5
PRITE H1TCl11S                                 0.3 30.0    0.5 20.0    0.4 15.0     -    -    0.9 35.0    0.0  0.0    2.6  7.2   0.7    1.3        0.6
rAEI    W?M  TO PSl615W                        0.2 3e.0    0.1 20.0    0.1 15.0     -    -    0.2 35.0    0.0  0.0    0.7  I.0   0.3    0.2        0.2
ST-Tata CnT FDI. SOWIP Fr
HIOAMB   M     lETW IMISIBEIIT                1.9 25.4    2.4 20.0    1.8 15.0     -    -    6.1 49.6    0.0  0.0   12.2 33.3   3.0    6.9        2.4
C. DI6liu. SMUT Flu 0 Smm
LA- -                                                      -      -   -       -   -             -   -    o-e 10.0    e.o  0.1       -    0.0       0.0
KIMUILD   Ff3 PM                                                 -1.0 P.0    0.1 10.0    1.1  2.9   0.2    0.7                                     0.2
110. SAlARIS M B.
COS 1Fl1 M                                                                                 1.2 62.0    0J  3.0    1.9  5.3   0.4   1.2         0.4
n. SIARI NO W.
CSIS FM DM                                                                                 0.- 7n.9    0.3 23.1    1.2  3.2      -    1.2      0.0
IENIO  AIM IDE        FOR MI0   0'-                                     -0.2 05.0    0.1 35.0    0.3  0.e   0.1    0.2                            0.1
11MEB1 S A   5IM    ETF- FOR  -I                            -0.7 65.1    0.4 34.9   1.0  2.0   0.5    0.1                                         0.4
INBU*TIM  F                                                                                   0.5 77.4    0.l  22.6    0.7  1.0   0.1   0.4       0.1
Su*-Ttal DISTIS. 5MT MAU N -M-                                                                   4.4 70.9 1.0 3.1 6.2 16.9 1.3 3.7  1.2
3. TED. ASSIST.. TRADIR
M FEtUlWS
WWWATIN CWSILTiS                                 -   -      -   -       -   -    4.0 100.0      -   -    0.0  0.0    4.0 10.0   2.6   1.0         0.3
D        AM  FBL                                 -   -      -   -       -   -    0.5100.0       -   -       -    -    0.5  1.2   0.3   0.2          -
Stb-Tatal 2IN2. ASSIST.. 1111115
AM FUlIISIS                                     -   -      -   -       -   -    4.4 100.0      -   -      .O  0.0    4.4 12.0   2.9    1.2        0.3
TOtWl DisW*w   t                                   1.9 5.1    2.4  6.7    1.0 5.0    4.4 12.0   21.4 53.2    4.0 13.0   36.7 100.0   9.2   22.4        5.1
Novbir 22 19M  13:22



-58-                         ANNEX 2
BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURFE PROJECT
Role of PCIs and the Shrimp Culture Extension Service in Hakint Proiect Subloans
1.        Under the project, the PCIs would provide medium-term subloans to
individuals and groups of farmers at conditions set forth in para 3.28 of
the SAR to finance on-farm investments, nine shrimp hatcheries and marketing
equipment. Working capital requirements for both farm improvements and
shrimp hatcheries would be financed under short-term credit.
2.        Lending scope of each PCI vould be determined by the choice of the
applicants. The PCI would be responsible for:
-   Review of loan applications;
-   On-farm appraisal assisted by the shrimp culture extension officer;
- Preparation of projected Cash Flows (in current terms);
-   Determination of duration in accordance with Cash Flows;
-   Verification of indebtedness of applicants;
-   Recommendation for approval by Field Officers;
-   Decision on loan approval by Branch Manager or Regional Manager;
-   Fulfilling formalities for collateral/contract signature;
-   Disbursements (if possible to supplier);
-   Supervision of utilization after each installment;
-   Periodical visits to Borrowers for supervision purposes
(one in two months);
-   Recovery:
i)  Notice of repayment one month before due date,
Xii) Collection at harvest time through Recovery Agents;
-   Keep permanent records of project transactions;
-   Prepare quarterly statements of loans disbursed, fallen due,
recovery, etc., for Regional Office; and
-   Prepare withdrawal application to BB (Regional PCI Office).
3.        The Extension Service would be responsible for:
-   Preparation of technical details;
-   Production plan;
-   Input requirements;
-   Investments necessary for groups of farmers, yield estimates
and projection; and
-   Preparation of loan application.



EANCLADEIN
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
Economic Export Parity Price I/
for Black Tiger Shriun of 21-25 Shriua u-r lb Count (Headless)
(Constant Novmber 1985 Prices)
~ St:e                                  Unit          Oct. 1984        Nov. 1985   1985/86    1986/87         1987/88       1988/89   1989/90       1990/91
&  nwsLlds
C & F Japan                                 US$/kg/headlecs       10.50           10.46        10.46        10.51        10.56        10.62       10.67        10.72
Leas  Freight, Unloading                    US$/kg/headleas        0.3AI          0.35          0,35          0.35       Q .35         0.35        9,35        0.35
FOB Bangladesh                              UMS/kg/headleas    10.15             10.11         10.11        10.16        10.21        10.27       10.32       10.37           D
Exchange Rate                               Tk/US*                   26              30           30           30           30           30          30           30
FOB Bangladesh                              Tk/kg/headless          264            303           303          305          306          308         310         311
Less Transport & Handling between
Processor and Ship V                   Tk/kg/headlevs           2               2            2             2           2            2            2           2
Leas Processing Cost V                      Tk/kg/headleas           20             22            22           22           22           22          22          22
Less Transport and Marketing Cost
between Farmgate and Processor 2/  Tk/kg/headleas              24A             27 . .L                                27           27           27          27
Farmgate Price                              Tk/kg/headleas          218            252           252          254         255           257         259          260
Farmgate Price                              Tk/kg/head-on 3J        142            164           164          165          166          167         168          169
1J  This table is derived from the financial price table for the same type of shrimp.
O2  Financial cost multiplied with SCI of 0.8.
3/  Factor 0.65 for conversion from headless to head-on farmgate price.



-60-
Nm.E                                                  ANNM 3
SIM  ClTWIE PUSECT                                          Table 2
INCENETAL WIERTS -OCOSTS
TK (0001
1        2        3         4       3        6       7        B       9   10-19       20
IIEN TAL  EIEFITS
SHIDEW F111I EXWITAILE 51HRIP                  -         -  12797.0  6932.0 12356.0 1UI13.0 2004S1.0 226192.0 226192.0  1m.0 226192.0
NISCELLAIEEI  FISH S HRIII         -         -   3373.0   9592.0  19195.0 30043.0 35s.0  36631.0 366.0 366.0 36631.0
PADY                                -        -        -    351.0   545.0   718.0   716.0   712.0   706.0   704.0   704.0
STElSEI; .IJNEIIIE SIRID                       -   1020.0   3640.0   9100.0  17290.0 20020.0 20020.0  20020.0 20020.0 20020.0 20020.0
SUTOTAL INCDRJTAL BEIEFITS                     -   1820.0  19810.0  U95.0 16236.0 236694.0 256494.0 293555.0 293551.0 293547.0 293347.0
IEJITIL COSTS
911-fShUOCeTS: INESTIET                    6230.0  33009.2 105261.0  6693.0  7030.0          -       -        -       -        - -M97 .0
:EECIWtDIT                      -      44.0   1200.0   2905.0  3669.0  7917.0  3677.0  3677.0  3677.0  3677.0  3677.0
SHERIP raNS   : IwNESTue                       -         -  322.0  m941S.0  11.0             -       -        -       -       - -2913.0
:RECEWRET                       -         -   3019.0  30272.0 37139.0 46233.0 4633.0  46233.0  46233.0 46233.0 46233.0
PIU            : IIESNT                   2554.0  31225.0   1105.0          -       -        -       -        -       -        - -12514.0
:EURREIIT                   1965.0   7m.0   7239.0   7260.0  7268.0  6433.0  643E.0  643B.0  6433.0  6439.0  6439.0
IB             : DWESTIET                  3125.0   2373.0        -    753.0        -        -       -        -       -        -       -
: RECIENT                   5520.0   6244.0   6244.0   6452.0  6452.0  6452.0         -        -       -       -        -
PRIV. HATIERIES: IJ TNJESI1ENT              867.0   2024.0        -  21900.0 10690.0         -       -        -       -        - -676.0
:RECIFJIT                       -         -   2B63.0   467B.0  4569.0  4B69.0  4569.0  4969.0  4369.0  4369.0  4369.0
TAP IRAINJN    : IESTIET                   1415.0   26.1.0     39.0         -   691.0  -473.0        -        -       -        -       -
: RECURRENT                13766.0  20674.0   1373.0  16954.0 11314.0         -       -       -        -       -        -
HARIETINIS     : INVESTIENT                    -   2562.0   5124.0    875.0   327.0          -       -        -       -        - -1395.0
SUBTOTAL INIICENTM  COSTS                 59506.0 129531.0 1B1101.0 1M67.0 107140.0 71331.0 61217.0 63217.0  61217.0 617.0 -13951.0
INCRETM   E  IETEBITS
TOTAL INCRETAL NET EDETS                 -39506.0 -126711.0 -161291.0 -IO772.0 5446.0 16363.0 19527.0 222339.0 2234.0 222330.0 369493.0
faovmber 229 1985 o9:20



-61-                          AM= 3
Table 3
BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTULRE PROJECT
Economic hnalvsJi.
Econmic
Rate of Return
(a) Project Base Case                      27
(b) Project costs increase 20Z             22
(c) Project benefits decrease 20X          20
(d) Project benefits lag 2 years           18
(e) Project benefits decrease 43Z          12
(f) Project costs increase 761             12
(g) Project benefits lag 5 years           12
(h) Construction of shrimp farm
infrastructure, on-farm investments,
incremental farm operating costs
and benefits from shrimp production
lagged two years                      22
(i) Investment in additional project
area is made but no incremental
yield occurs                           24



BUNIGLADESH
SRRIKP CULTURE PROJECT
Financial Export Parity Price of Black Titer ShriaDs of 21-25 Shrim  per lb Count (Beadlegi)
(constant November 1985 Prices)
Period   Oct. 84   Nov. 85 /  85/86 2]  86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90    90/91
& Onwards
Item                        Unit                 Proiect Year          1          2        3         4        5       6 - 20
C 6 F Japan                           US$/kg  headless  10.50       10.46       10.46     10.51    10.56    10.62    10.67    10.72
Less Freight, Unloading               US$/kg  headless   0.35        0.35        0.35      0.35      0.35      0.35     0.35      0.35
FOB Bangladesh  U/ SS/kg  headless  10.15                           10.11       10.11     10.16    10.21    10.27    10.34    10.37
Exchange Rate                         Tk/US$                 26        30          30        30        30        30       30        30
FOB Bangladesh                        Tk/kg   headless    264         303         303       305       306       308      310       311
Less Exportt ax  YJ                   fk/kg   headless        1         2           2          2        2         3        3         4
Less Transport and Handling
between Processor and Ship       Tk/kg   headless       3          3           3         3         3       .          3        3
Price at Processing Plant             Tk/kg   headless    260         298         298       300       301       302      304       304
Less Processing Cost/Kargin           Tk/kg   headless      25         28          28        28        28        2828               28
Processor Buying Price                Tk/kg   headless    235         270         270        272      273       274      276       276
Leos Transport and Karketing Costs
from Faugate to Processor        Tk/kg   headless      30         341        34         34        34       34        34       34
Farugate Price                       Tf/kg   headless    215          236         236       238       239       240      242       242
Faragate Price g/                     Tk/kg   headon       140        153         153       155       155       156      157       157
11 Inflators for period between October 1984 and November 1985: Foreign prices/costs 0.993; local costs 1.133.
]/ Constant November 1985 prices for 1985/86 and onwards.
IJ Cbalna, Cbittagong.
g. The export tax was 0.51 at the time of appraisal, but reportedly has been lifted in the
first balf of FY85. For the above calculation it im assumed that the 0.5% tax continues and the
project induced export tax is added. Project induced incrermental export tax is assumed to be
O.1 in 1988/89 and 1989/90, and 0.71 in 1990/91 and 1991/92, and 0.91 in the following years.
Total export tax vould thus increase from 0.9Z in 1988/89 and 1989/90, to 1.2Z in the two following
years and to 1.41 thereafter.
J Factor 0.65 for conversion from headless to head-on farogate price.



-63-                         ANNEX 4
Table 2
B&NGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
Financial Analysis for Sbrium Farms and Hatcheries (Z)
Values        Change
Base     Switching      Operating    Investment
Investment                  ERR       BenefitsC08t Costs             Costs
30 ha shrimp/paddy
rotation                    119         -68             209           1,223
30 ha shrimp/salt
rotation                    118         -68             213           1,211
40 ha shrimp
monoculture                 119         -62             205              737
Shrimp hatchery              30         -38             131             110



Table 1
31 IV W.I N FLTPage I
TAKE 4.2 U3DUiF  LgCL 30-lu O     Fare Nh 
(In Tk 00)
FT
Ultiamut                                    11th Proiert
1     2     3     4   5 to 20  1      2       3       4       5       6       7        to 2
Ex. tir d1w  Ia                     234.  27.15 237.15 23.43 260.21 2I4.09  522.45  697.30  79.34  M35.40   W.4A  605.43  II5A4
Ew. ddt. udiw lb                    21.14  M3.   23.56 2.56  2J.77 23.14   60.75   81.60  102.00  102.75  102.75  102.75  102.75
Ex. trem  Weer  s1w le              19.0 19.50 11.5t  19.5  19.80 19.2   42.90   3.50   72.15   73.26   73.2   73.2   73.26
fuse. tisb ad shJo Id               74.70 74.70 74.70 74.70  74.70 74.70  149.40  224.10  261.45  261.45  261.45  2U.45  261.45
PadbLW        I Vuiab              242.73251.2J2 11226.6  266.67242.n   20.12  2U.33  201.34  230.34  20.34  230.34  20.34
-To    Nan Prdotim                    59J. 1 U0.98 61.03 U    .152B11   5g13.3   1036.2 19330.60 1I5957 1603.28 1403.21 103.2B 1603.2B
Wi-far C_mmmtiu
Rise. fish ad shr.im /d              39   3.9   3.9   3.90   3.1 3.93    3.93    3.t8    3.90    3.t9    3.91    3.98    3.93
P_IWIocu1 varie                     5.47 15.47 5.47 35.47  J5.47?547    5.47   15.47 E5.4    5.47    5.47  J5.47   85.47
SWTo:l S-Fm C_NtixM                   1W.45 39.45 89.45 3AS.45  3.45 19.45   39.45   A.45   39.45   39.45   39.45   39.45   89.45
.. a:w 01 Prajetiun                    59W.41 521.33 5Dt.S 31    540.9 509.41  97.17 1,240.62 1,551.33 1,51343 1,513.13 1513.93 1#513.13
3LS                                 55.41 521.53 S23.3 5M35 560.69 55.41  97.1 1240.62 156.33 13133 1,513.83 15.3 13513.83
Pr0tim cast
Civil lars ad _Em t                                              357.81      -       -       -      -       -       -       -
Inuts
Jaule dri_         _               -     -     -     -      -     -   54.4   38.53  i29.    129.39  i2.3   12.3   1.39
Nint. civil sets 1 _az t       24.96 24.9  24.%  24.96  24.96 24.96   3.33   3.33    38.3   31.33   33.03   3.33   3.J3
IAI?IStUIEtuIVdmhI  -              -     -     -     -      -     -   31.    23.80   43.50   39.75  5S.40   3.40   55.40
Riseuliuumu 1 ui.              14.0  14.0  14.3  14.0  14    14.3B  19.14   19.14   19.14   1.14   19.14   19.14   19.14
P-- sd              -           4.79  4.79  4.79  4.79   4.79  4.79    4.79    4.79    4.79    4.79    4.79    4.79    4.79
OM,                                -     -     -     -      -     -    2.06    2.74    3.43    3.43    3.43    3.43    3.43
Ser Im                             -     -     -     -      -     -    1.97    2.63    3.29    3.      32      3.2    3.29
Hired hullcks                  14.67 14.0  14.7 14.67  14.67 14.67   14.67   14.67   14.    14.67   14.67   14.67   14.6
-Totl  1ut,                       59.2  59.2?  59.2         .2929 59.    217.43  25t.12  307.03  303.23  313.93  3i3.93  313.93
Nired LOar
mra. hired lar                 20.16 20.16 20.16 20.16  20.16   .6   20.16   20.16   20-16   25.16   20.16   20.16   20.16
I_g..gt                        11.13 il.13 11.13 11.13  11.13 11.13   U.13   11.13   11.13   U.13   lr.13   11.13   11.13
b-Tota Hired Labor                31.29 31.2  312     .    31.2  31.29   31.2    31.2   31.29   31.29   31.2   31.29   31.29
-Ta1 beratin                         90.3   .   90.395.5  90.SI 9SO.53  248.72  231.41  331.32  334.D7  345.2V  345.22  345.22
*TOa Preztm  cost                      "0.SI  0.38  0.53  9.S3  90.3B 44.39  248.72  2 .41  338.32  334.57  345.22  345.22  365.22



-65-
Table 1
Page 2
U91U            F1-3                   41.13 43C." 47."  44J7  4.0.11 M*    69344  9.21 1.1IQ.01 l, 6 1,143.61 I1.U 1,6S31
FM  FlLY  1i5S IBM FnIE                503.2 SADU W         5.52 M9.56 1.47        .90 143.d  DIV.* l.awn  1,2M.06 1,239.01 1,23.6
Sns, 11t Famc
3h*.uu.ats b Ln1 Tmo                     -     -      -     -       - L.o3        -       -         _   _ _ 
siavmmts on gbt T    Lw                  -     -      -     -       -    .   23.72  Z25.13  262.9   13.3   13.09   130   13.W
Trait Fm Prai         ftr -d    90.3  96.3   0.3  9               3   35.70       -   56.23  13.33  2r.74   267.13  217.13  207.13
Ls Tranift, To bit FMWi                  90.3   6.3  93  93  93           -   5.2   135.33  20.74  207.13  207.13  207.13  207.13
5hTu1 Soo    1 Finoc                        -     -      -     -      - 443.39  192mM   14.09  17 V.         4   1M3.0    130    133.0
L1O TM Principal                         -     -      -     -      -      -       -   54.32   13.t1   73.0    84.79    3.          -
L1A Tm Jatewost                          -     -      -     -      -      -       -    9.77   M1N   41.00   29.30   15.74          -
Sint Tom  riacbu                        -     -      -     -      - 90.3  26372    5.t3  202.9   133.13  13.09   130    13.09
9St TOMn Jut                             -     -      -     -       -  7.25   19.90   1MA1       24   10.71   11.5   11.05   11.05
Tatal L         nu                          -     -     -      -      - 97.33  26.62  W.23  3.32  23.62  263.22  263.    149.13
IElT F C                                    -     -     -      -      - D0      -76.13 -211.14 -1974 -13.13 -12S.13 -125.13  -S1A5
CMl Rl WM8 FDIMD                       41E.i 430.94 3." 443.01 451.11 411.3  1.26  743.07  972.37 14 1.43 1.03.4 I5746
FM  F l   WFn5 W            FIZr          3.3    4D WO.45 W7.32   5.56 511A03  772  3m.n 1,061.73 1137M.  1 .93 1137.93 1P247A
bor 21 1Z     5   .07



-66-                                              A    5
Table 2
IAHAII                                               Page 1
9   aLCrT FULECT
TALE  6.2  UISALT 30-a OM  Fa.  Il
fDUL 
(In ik '001)
FT
Vithmut                                       withi Projuct
1     2     3     4   St20  1          2        3       4       5       6       7    8to20
==Z= B=  smug  _xm  =_=    z_e  GzzS=s zx~z2z=ZZ=
main Pioductian
Exo. titer srip la                   234.69 237.15 237.15 238.63 240.21 234.69  S5.45  697.0  379.4  35.41   15.41  8.43  M5.43
Exo. white shrim  b                  21.14 25.35 23.56 23.56  23.77 23.14   60.75   3.60  102.60  10275  102.75  102.75  102.75
Ex. fsbh water shrim /c               19.2D  19.50 19.50 19.50  19.30 19.20   42."0   3.30   72.15   73.26   73.2    73.21   73.26
llisc. fish    srid /d s4d74.70 74.70 74.70 7.0  74.70 74.70  14.40  224.16  261.45  2U1.4S  261.45  261.45  261.45
Salt                                 500.54 590.54590.54590.54 59O.54590.54  50.54   90.54  590.54  59.54  590.54  590.545 0.54
Sub-Tatal Fain Productio               946.67 95.24 950.45 9." 9    4.02 946.7 1,36.04 1,62.24  905.9B 1,913.4 1,913.48 1913.4A  1,913.49
Ob-far Cnsumption
MixS. fish nd shriw Jd                3.9B  3.98  3.99 3.96   3.93  3.93    3.93    3.93    3.98    3.98    3.98    3.93    3.9B
Net Ualw ot Prduttime                  942.6  946.26 946.47 943.00 950.04 942.L, 1,365.06 19643.26 1,902.00 1909.50 1,99.50 1,909.5t0 I909.50
BFLOD                                942.69 941.26 946.47 943.00 950.04 942.69 l,313.06 19648.2 1,902.001 909.50 l,909.50 1i909. 1s909.50
Productio Cost
~w tm
Civil Vurks and Eguirunt              -      -     -               357.01      -
perating
Juvenile shrimp                     -     -     -                   -   54.4    MM3  123   129.39  129.39  12.39   129.9
faint. civil ,rks * umupen      24.96 24.96 24.96 24.96  24.96 24.96   88.83   83.3   0383    U.S    8.33   19.33   .83.3
Infrastructure dare                 -     -     -      -      -     -   31.50   23.0   43.50   39.75   50.40   50.40   50.40
niscedlmas durges  --.49 9.49   3.49   3.n    3.49  3.49   12.75   12.75   12.75   12.75   12.75   12.75   12.75
Embnkent Rapir                  8 96.4 P6.64 86.64 86.64  36.64 06.64 3   6.4 316    4   86.64   B6.64 3  6.64    6.64   3164
Replacnt Minor Itms             25.98 25.98 25.98 25.93  25.98 25.98   25.98   25.93   25.93   25.98   25.98   25.98   25.98
Su-Total lRuts                    146.07 146.07 146.07 146.7 146.07 146.07  30.13  331.    37.09  33.34  393.99  33.99  393.99
Hired Labor
"bsk. hired labor              274.03 274.09 274.0 274.06 24.03274.03  274.03  274.03  274.06  274.09  274.03  274.06  274.0
maaetmt                         11.13 11.13 11.13 11.13  11.13 11.13   U1.13   11.13   11.13   11.13   11.13   11.13   11.13
ubTotl Hired Labor                295.21 205.21 295.21 25.21  25.21205.21   23s.21  2Js.3   295.21  295.21  295.21  205.21  235.21
SubToalIperatinM                     431.23 431.23 431.23 431.2   2 431.23 431.    505.39  616.74  62.30  663.55  69.20   679.2   67920
Sub-Total Prduction Cost               431.  431.23 431.28 431.3  431.23 739.09  55.39  616.74  672.30  663.55  679.    679.20  679.20



-67-                                                        ANNlA  5
Table 2
Page 2
en  Fni  Iff13  FIlllO                   511.41 514. 935119 516.   513.76 151.0   779.7 1i@31.52 1,229.70 1.240.95 1.230.30 1,230.3D 19230.30
FM FmILY SIulEI           FDIWM          515.39 518.% 519.17 W.70 52,74 157.53  73.65 1435.50 1,233.63 1,244.93 1R234.2  1,234.23 1,234.2B
Smurs Of Financ
risburit 0S LanE Ter Loan                  -     -      -     -       - 322.03       -        -       -        -       -       -        -
ilaauints ab Shrt Term                     -     -      -     -       - 431.28  W5.39   493.39  403.38  267.42  271m.6   271.68  271.6B
Trwmftr Fm  Previwus Period           431.28 431.2B 431.2B 431.2B 431.23  35.76      -   123.35  268.92  401.13  407.52  407.52  407.52
Los Tru?e To Net PerIo                431.2S 431.23 431.2 431.23   11        -  123.35  268.92  401.13  407.52  407.52  407.52  407.52
-Tatal Sm     Of Fioa                        -      -      -     -       - 739.09  462.04   347.92  21.17  261.03  271.68  271.68  271.68
Lam RueAnts
Lora Tore hindpal                          -     -      -      -      -      -       -   54.32   63.01   73.09   34.79   99.35          -
LownTore Interest                          -     -                          -        -      .n77   Si.0O   41.00   29.30   1S.74        -
Short Tom Princ-al                         -     -      -      -        431.2B   5.39   493.39  403.3B  267.42  21.68  271.68  271.69
Shrt Ttre Interest                         -     -      -     -       - 34.50   46.03   39.47   32.27   21.39   21.73   21.73   21.73
S6-Tatal LOa RwfIU                            -     -      - -  -          465.76  632.22   646.95  549.74  402.90  407.50   07.S0  293.41
MET FDWEIA I                                  -     -      -     -       - 2.31  -170.19 -2Y9.13 -273.57 -141.97  -U15.82 -135.92  -21.73
Wl FLUB FMR FIIAEII                      511.41 514.93 515.19 516.72 513.76 476.0  609.49  732.39  9.13 1,099.09 19094.49 1.094.49 1.20B.56
FmN FlLY IJEFITS WMER F       DAN        515.39 51B.96 59.17 520.70 522.74 490.89  613.47  736.37   55.11 1W,13.06 1,099.46 1s099.46 1,212.55
_--der 21, IMS IS:OB



-68-                                                ANNE
Table 3
Page 1
tED?OLUNFWC
TAKE 3.2 UEIVDIWlTM7    40-ha Faor MIi
FIE        UOIET
(Inl 1k 'M
FT
Mitmut                                         ViLi Project
1     2     3      4   5 t 20   1         2       3       4       5        6       7    1 to 20
IbLn Produci
Exr. lir  shrt w /a                  459.00 465.00 465.00 46U.00 471.00  691.56 1,401.20 1,643.00 132.00 liUBB4.00 I,4.00 1.834.00 1l334.00
Exr. Ait. shrll  /b                   53.60 54.00 54.40 54.40  54.00   80.40  1U.00  190.40  217.60  219.20  219.20  219.20  219.20
Emr. fruob m.r shrli /c               33.40 3.00 39.00 3N.00  39.40   56.32  114.40  130.0   1.00  115.40  153.40  1L5.40  153.40
Nise. fish ad s1ip d                  9.60 9.60 99.60 9.60  99.    199.20  293.3   343.60  39.40  398.40  33.40  39.40  398.40
Sub-Total hain Proiwtin                 45.60 657.60 63.0  661.00 665.00 I0e27.4s 19976.40 2,312.00 2,644.00 2e460.00 2M66000 24660.00 29660.00
Om-Fare Contaio
Nise. fish ad sbriw Id                 7.97  7.97  7.97  7.97   7.97    7.97    7.97    7.97    7.97    7.97    7.97    7.7    7.97
Nut vulw Kr Probdution                  642.63 649.63 50.03 653.03 657.03 1,019.51 1,963.43 2,304.03 2.136.03 29632.03 2W6s2.03 29652.03 2462.03
DFLUZ                                 642.6 649.63 60.03 653.03 657.03 1M019.51 1,963.43 2P394.03 2,636.03 2.02.03 2,652.03 2.652.03 2.452.53
Proction Cost
Civil Moks and Eudaint                                             19136.1        -       -       -       -        -       -       -
gill                                -     -      -     -       -   79.45  2w4.73  272.40   2.34   322.34   3.34  3m2.34   2.34
hlint. civil works I  nunt    135.83 11354. 135.34 133.34 15.34  135.34  260.04  260.04  210.04  240.0*  260.04  260.04  260.04
Law fu                           53.16 53.16 53.16  3.16  53.16   3.16    53.16   53.16   53.16   53.16   53.16   53.16   53.16
Infr,stacturu duriw                 -     -      -     -       -       -   42.00   31.40   53.00   53.00   67.20    7.2    67.20
NisuLres  duarms   .              6.36  6.36  6.36  6.36   6.36   15.96   31.3   43.30   95.63   95.63   ss.6    95.8   95.68
Sib-Tatl lzuts                    195.36 195.36 195.36 195.36 195.36   M4.41   113   637.80  789.22  734.22  798.42  79.42  793.42
Urid Labor
.us. hired labor                30.64 80.64 3.64  80.64  80.64   80.64   30.64   30.64    0.64   80.64   00.44   00.64   30.64
hlagmt                          19.03 19.03 19.03  19.03  19.03   19.03   19.03   19.03B  19.0B   19.0    19.03   19.03   19.03
Sub-Teal Hired Lbor                n.72  s.72 n.72   .n72  n.72   n.72    9.72          .72   s.72    9.72   n.        99.72     .n72
bTOtia   eatis                       295.00 295.0B 295.0 295.03 295.03  384.13  711m.3  787.52   M.94   333.94  393.14   M3.14  B98.14
Sub-Total Pruction Cost                 295.03 295.0B 295.0e295.03  295.081,571.01  711.53  787.52  8.94   333.94  M.14  M93.14  3M3.14



Table 3
page 2
riu  nom urE   rnaut                     347.3 354.35 354.9  157.95 361.9  -31.31 1.6.90 1516.51 1747.09 1,76.0N 175.1  1753.3f I753.39
FMI FAZRLY mnsEI   W     f EN            335.2 32.32 362.92 365.92 39.92  -43.33 12414.V 1,524.41 1.U.06 19776.06 1.761.56 Il.3 1." l.761.36
Sear,. Or Fant.
kidburuuunt On Lii Tur Lan                           -      -           1n06.19        -        -       -        -       -        -       -
hi*ursNU       On Shrt Turm Lon            -      -     -      -      -  34.13  711.53  630.02  53.36   353.3   359.26   359.26  359.26
TrmnsFr Fro Pruvious Ploed            25.l 295.0  295M.  295.06 295.06  111.6          -  157.50  355.3   530.36  53B.3   531.1   53.3
Lu  Traider To h.t Ptuied             295.08 295.0 215.06 295.0  295.06        -   157.50  35.B  530.6  su.u   sl.8   533B.3   533.
IT-OU  Smwu  Of Fnn                           -     -      -      -      - I,571.01  554.03  431.94  353.3   35.06  3P.26  339.26  359.26
Leg Turn Prinewal                          -      -     -      -      -        -       -  110.13  259.01  242.45  231.24  326.24
Lora Trn Inteust                           -      -     -      -      -        -       -  193S   10.43    35.9"   97.20   52.20           -
shrt Tom Princpal                          -      -     -      -      -  34.13   711.3   630.02  m3.36  3S3.3   359.26  39.26  359.26
Shrt TMt Jtun"st                           -      -     -      -      -   30.73   56.92   50.40   42.47   2.29   28.74   2B.74   28.74
ur-etal Lea  Iuuuits                         -      -      -     -       -  414.36  76.45 1POW.35  954.47   760.30  76.43   76.43  314.00
fT FIIXI                                      -     -      -     -       - 1,156.15 -214.43 -6.91  -595.3  -415.24 -407.17 -407.17  -23.74
CUSH FLN WII E  FDlWEl                   347-.55 354.53 354.95 357.9  361.95  604.65 .042.43   399.61 liSl.20 133.51. IU346.72 1.346.72 1,725.15
FIN F IEY IEJITS WMI  FDI WI             355.52 362.52 362.92 363.92 369.92  612.42 1.0SD.44  99?.5  1,159.17 1U60.12 1.354.6 1.54.69 IPM.12
:_nter 21n  I1   15:09



-TO-
Table 4
UNGLADESM
Shrian Culture Proiect
Financial Nodel for a 10 gillion Shrin Hatchber, i1
(Constant November 85 Tk '000)
Year I     Year 2 to 20
I.   GROSS SALES 3/                                  1.135          2,270
II. INVESTHEUT COSTS M
k. Land Acquisition               0.40 ba    -    75
B. luildinas
Indoor Hatchery and office    9625 sq ft - 2,971
Nachinery House                 520 sq ft -   178
Service Building and Store    2150 sq ft -   737
Spawner and Larval Cisterns               -   280
(indoor)
Larval and Plankton Tanks                      311
(outdoor)
Water Storage Tanks                       -   205
Water Tower                               -    89
Architecte Fee                            '
Subtotal Buildings                          5383
C. ninuiment
Generator (15 Kw)                 1 pC    -   146
Electric Water Pimp               4 pc    -    35
(I hp)
Portable Pump (2 hp)              2 pe    -   128
Air Compressor (1 hp)             1 pC    -   146
Plastic tanks (1 cu.-m
3.5 cu.    & 0.3 cum)          3 pc    -   140
Water Testing Instruments         1 set   -    82
Hand Tools and Misc.
Equipment                      1 set       -  3
Subtotal Equipment                            712
Total Investment Costs                      6,095
III. OPERATING COSTS
Building & Tanks #(                            161           161
Equipment 5/                                   107           178
Feeds & Chemicals .1                            49            80
Wages 71                                       148           148
Nisc.                                         .j              _
Total                                          520           622
Net Income before Financing                    612         1,648
LI Without residential buildings.
.?J Annual production of juvenile shrimp (20-25 days after the post
larval stage) is expected to be 5 million in year 1 and 10 million
in year 2 and onvards. The current price for juvenile sbrimp at
such sizes is Tk 227 per 1,000 on average.
.2, Physical contingencies are included in total value of investment
at the rate of 20% for buildings and tanks.
Al 3% of cost of buildings and tanks.
.J 151 of cost of equipment in first year. 25S tbereafter.
V/ Feeds for both juvenile and broodatock hrimp.
21  Manager 12 a/m e Tk 4,250/month, technicians 36 .1. e Tk 2,660/outh.



-71-                      ANNEX 6
BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
Proiection of Quarterly IDA Disbursements
Fiscal Year and Quarter        Durina Quarter            Cumulative
US$ N        SDR M        US$ M     SDRM
FY87
I                   1.6           1.5          1.6       1.5
II                  0.0           0.0          1.6       1.5
III                 0.0           0.0          1.6       1.5
IV                  0.0           0.0          1.6       1.5
:Y88
I                   0.0           0.0          1.6       1.5
II                 0.1           0.1          1.7       1.6
III                 0.9           0.8          2.6       2.4
IV                  1.4           1.3         4.0       3.7
FT89
I                   0.8           0.8          4.8      4.5
II                  1.2           1.1          6.0      5.6
III                 1.7           1.6          7.7       7.2
IV                  2.0           1.9          9.7       9.1
,w0
X                   0.6           0.5         10.3       9.6
TT                  1.1           1.1         11.4     10.7
III                 1.4           1.3         12.8      12.0
IV                  1.7           1.6         14.5     13.6
FY91
I                   0.6           0.5         15.1      14.1
II                  0.9           0.9         16.0      15.0
III                 1.1           1.0         17.1      16.0
IV                  1.4           1.3         18.5     17.3
FY92
I                   0.5           0.5         19.0     17.8
II                  0.6           0.5         19.6     18.3
III                 0.7           0.7         20.3      19.0
IV                  1.0           1.0         21.3      20.0
FY93
I                   0.4           0.3         21.7     20.3
II                  0.3           0.3         22.0     20.6



ANNEX 7
-72-
BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
Selection Criteria and Credit Support Conditions for Additional Project Areas
(Those SuDuorted Only bv the Provision of Extension Services. Credit and Trainina)
1.        Area selection and shrimp farming infrastructure of project areas
with extension, training and credit only (the Additional Project Areas)
should follow very closely the criteria and technicel standards employed for
the project areas with public shrimp farming infrastructure (the Main Project
Area). The criteria for selection of locations involve a number of physical
requirements and suitability for the introduction of extensive shrimp farming
practices without adverse effects on existing land-use patterns (para 3.05 of
SAR).
2.        Shrimp culture in the three main shrimp-farming modes - shrimp/salt
in rotation, shrimplpaddy in rotation and shrimp monoculture could be sup-
ported under this project component.
3.        The existing peripheral embankments of the selected polders must
be of good standards to assure that shrimp culture and agricultural
activities are safe from flooding.
4.        A fundamental requirement is a sufficient supply of saline water
that can be controlled and easily provided to shrimp fields. Locations must
therefore be close to waterways having adequate salinity levels in the
shrimp-farming season. The tidal characteristics of the waterway and the
elevation of the proposed land for development must be such that the land can
be flooded by gravity flow during the relatively short and intermittent
periods of high spring tides which increase in level in the early part of the
shrimp-farming season. Rapid filling is desirable and as a minimum require-
ment ponds should be capable of filling to an average depth of two feet in
less than 45 days and should reach a depth of three feet by mid-season.
Besides the dimension and quality of the water control structures, the criti-
cal factor for rapid filling is an adequate level of water at high tides
above the land surface. Areas for development and project supported water
control structures must allow this rapid filling.
5.        Rapid and complete drainage of shrimp fields is required for a
number of reasons; namely, to facilitate speedy transition from one mode to
another, allow the effective flushing away of saline water in shrimp/paddy
modes, and to allow the ground to be drained, dried, and exposed to the
atmosphere as a conditioning treatment necessary for enhanced shrimp produc-
tion. The topography of the selected areas must facilitate drainage and the
layout of shrimp-farming blocks and the water control structures will have to
provide for drainage at the lowest parts in the area.



-73-                             ANNEX 7
Page 2
6.        The enclosing embankments for shrimp farming areas are subject to
the conditions of exposure obtaining in the tidal water areas which surround
them. Areas of exposure to severe wave action are to be avoided because the
costs of providing protective works would be significant.
7.        Provision must be made in developing shrimp-farming areas for
prevention of any adverse effects to neighboring areas. The possibility of
seepage of saline waters into agricultural land must be avoided and where
shrimp lands are developed along the tidal margins of land areas under other
uses, provision must be retained for the latter to be fully drained independ-
ent of the water management requirements in the shrimp-farming blocks. The
embankments separating the shrimp farms from other land must be built to the
standard identical to those applied in the Main Project Area.
8.        In planning the development of shrimp-farming areas, existing
commnmication must be preserved and the requirements of homestead, drinking
water supply and areas for livestock grazing must be taken into account.
9.        The area selected must have been under shrimp culture during parts
of the preceding two years or be wasteland.
10.       The financial rate of return on total investment in the sub-project
should be above 25Z.
11.       For the Additional Project Areas public investment funds for
infrastructure would not be made available under this project, and funds to
build or rehabilitate infrastructure would have to be financed by credit to
individual shrimp farmers or groups of shrimp farmers.
12.       Benefiting land owners should indicate: (i) support for the
project; and (ii) willingness to participate with their land, either directly
or on a lease basis, in shrimp farming operations. The consultant working on
shrimp farming group formation must have investigated the area and confirmed
this.
13.       PIU and BWDB must formally agree to the area selection,  as well as
the standards and layout of existing and proposed water control structures.
BWDB should supervise whether the standards agreed at credit approval have
been followed by the shrimp farmers or sbrimp farming groups. Non-compliance
would lead to withdrawal of salt water intake permits.
14.       Credit should be disbursed in tranches to foster maintenance of
standards agreed at credit approval.
15.       Subproject proposals for each individual sub-area prepared by PIU
and agreed to by BWDB would be submitted to IDA for approval.
16.       The polders selected by PIU and agreed to by BWDB would conform to
the above selection criteria and be submitted to IDA to be approved for
inclusion in the Project.



-T4-                          ^ANI    7
Table 1
BANGLADESH
SHRI?P CULTURE PROJECT
I.  Staffint Recuiremente for PIV
Latest Recruitment Time
Number of        in Nonths After
Position                            Level        frgitij n    Credit Effectiveness
Project Director                    PSO JJ           1                    
Dep. Director Administration        Dep. Dir         1                    3
Ass. Director Extension             880 Z             1                   0  /
1                   6
Planning and Budgeting Officer    SO Al               1                   3
Procurment Officer                  SO M             1                    6
Monitoring and Evaluation Officer SSO U              1                    3
Accounting Officer                  SO i4/           1                    9
Personnel and Admin. Officer        80 A/            1                    9
Executive Engineer                   8SO J          1                    3
Assistant Engineer                  SO A              1                   9
Read Mobile Extension Unit          SO A             1                    3
1                   6
Extension Officers                  Class I1         3                    3
3                   9
Extension Assistants                14th Grade       6                    3
6                   9
Ass. Director DFCT                 S90 3J            1                    3
sso 2U           1                   9
Subject Matter Specialists          880 ;J           2                    3
2                   6
2                  12
Ass. Director Hatchery              8S0 3/            1                   9
1                  12
Hatchery Supervisor                 SO A             1                    9
1                  12
Hatchery Officer                    Class II         2                    9
2                  12
D?CT Supervisor                     SO Al            1                    3
SOI              1                   9
DFCT Assistants                     14th Grade       2                    3
2                   9
II.  Staffinn Reauirements for_ _BDB
Latest Recruitment
Number of             Time in Months After
Position                          Positions             Credit Effectiveness
Superintending Engineer/Coordinator 2                              0 i
Executive Engineer                    1                            3
1                            6
Assistant Engineer                    3                            3
3                            9
Assistant Technical Officer           2                            6
Sectional Officer                     3                            3
3                            9
4                           15
A} Principal Scientific Officer
t Senior Scientific Officer
J/ Condition of Effectiveness
A Scientific Officer



-75-
ANWEX 8
BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
A. Selected Reports. Studies and Documents Related to the Proiect
1.  Coastal Aquaculture Project, Preparation Report - World Bank, May 1983
2.  Fishery Subsector Review - World Bank, December 1983
3.  Bangladesh Coastal Aquaculture Project, Engineering Study - Development
Consultancy Services Ltd. and Engineering Consultancy Services and
Associates Ltd. Dhaka, August 1984.
- Volume I
- Hydraulic and Structural Design Type A
- Design Details Regulators, Drawings A1-A7
4. Small Scale Water Control Structures, Bangladesh Coastal Zone Overview
- Northwest Hydraulic Consultants Ltd. North Vancouver, Canada,
August 1984
5.  Bangladesh Coastal Aquaculture Project, Report on Socio-Economic
Study - Development Consultancy Services Ltd. and Engineering
Consultancy Services and Associates Ltd. Dhaka, February 1985.
6.  Plan and Estimate for Construction of a Multi-Storied Building of the
Directorate of Fisheries, Dhaka - PND, November 1982
B.  Selected Working Papers and Tables Pre-ared by Bank Staff
Appendix B.1: Status, Trend and Constraints on the Development of Shrimp
Culture Technology
- Basic Data of the Fisheries Sector
Appendix B.2: Details on Project Area, Status of Engineering Project
Description and Monitoring and Adaptive Research
Appendix B.3: Engineering Aspects
- Notes on Estimates of Cost for Engineering Items
- Background Notes to the Text and Tables Prepared for
the Engineering Aspects
Appendix B.4: Economic Analysis Data
- Assumptions used in the Economic Analysis
- Economic Version of Cost Tables
- Economic Analysis



-76-                         ANNEX a
Page 2
Appendix B.5: Financial Analysis Data
- Farm Models in Constant Terms for Shrimp/Paddy and
Shrimp/Salt Rotation and for Shrimp Monoculture
- Same Farm Models in Current Terms
- Assumptions for Farm Models
- Note on Foreign Exchange and Tax Rate Calculation
- Data on Participating Credit Institutions
Appendix B.6: Cost Recovery
- Possible Scenarios for Cost Recovery
- Tables
Appendix B.7: Draft Terms of Reference for PIU Consultants
Appendix B.8: Detailed Cost Tables
Appendix B.9: Summary Cost Tables



-77-
BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
Overnll ImplementatIon Program
YEAR NUMBER (Jury 31 to June 30)
IfEM                  ACTMTY
1              2              3              4              5
DRY SEASON          7 P 77                               -       7P        77
Land ACquSto                                        
Buildings - Ser%fce
Imperentaton      Sat Rotrrnt                    _      _   _
Unit              Equlpnnt Procutrrent_
DOF Headquater Bulidrng        _  _  _  _   _        _  
BWDB        ~~~Deslgnatlon cE Stalf
Equipment Ptactement
Appoint Consultant
Technical         Baseline Surmre
Assistance        Farning Group Organizafon
& Training        Mobile Exten5on Services
In-service Training
Po_d_S        _   Englneedng Preparation
Rompur &          Land Acqustion
20+20/1           CMI tWorks Cornstruction
On-fan Improvements
Poides            Engineering Pmreoatilon
6/366/4        | Land AcquWltion
& 70              CMI Works Construction
On-frrm Imrrovneents
Additional       IdenltilfCdion of Areas
Prodect Areas.    Layout Preparatlon
On-farm Improvements
Land Acquisition
PIlt              Technical PRpration
Shrimnp           Construction - Cox's Bazar
Hlotcherlem                  - Khulna
(2 No)            Resdences
Eaulpment
| hoafebSh |p Construction (9 No.)                                   I|1_
Farn Constuctbn - Kalgon-
PIU                               - Cors Bazor
Dern              Buildinrs - Troining
Forms                     - -esIcences
Eauipment Procurerrent
Worid Bonk-30129



BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
Organization of Bangladesh Water DeeCopffent Board
(As d October 1984)
CharnD
r M                                                        r e n                              Nbnbor    }               | b      -n w
P di tdon                L   _ nme    |                                                 .   mgoto 
Df*ec taLo                           &
fti~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                 ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~osr Zan _C rhn2coaief Ertar"  CN_ _N#  Ch Er41_  CNd En  F;_ l"t _  ^,
Ductor   _   _    *        |~~~~~~~~~~fut .    Ca ro            NRqZn         orti"fih                        (oo)             (R*0  )I
I   EPS a | |   Cat0y  PL & |tf    ,Vot                                t         .
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~he Ia gh ea                                             Ih
Mo~~~~~~~~~othWnwnonI000%v 
| X: Eh"_ | ~t        ls 
~~~~~~~~~~~~IC^I  0"boI
5 mom~           441100"                         _
E%*ffwo Mc"l^orErw
-~ f
C~~~i lawOAl



-it  
~~iISS ll  |
~~~A -i- i@S



BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
Organization Chad Project Implementatlon Unit (PIU)
WenslonotDu  Dire
_ SSO .   l?                                                               (D.p Dlr Level)
Ext.                   lo Eil.                                       som~ExcuN' Egiee  Pinfl &  2 Hatchery Monciger   2 DernoniStrofaol
Unit CosuoobE                                                  ExocuBowoEng4 _l)           Budgoting Ofcar        ( in Caes Baszr DisI.)      Fa2m & trIronng
(50 Lovnl)n                                                                                (SO L('eO)'          (1 in Ktuha Ditjct)         Cont r M nags
(so  _"),                         (SO     . ._._                                                              (SSODO.L L")             (1 iCncues BWoor)
I    --I                    .                 .                                                                                                 1_ inS Khol;ir4)H
Ext. Officers             Ext. Olikers              Ext. Oftcen                                                                                           (550 Do. LOcr  --..
II    I                       I ~~~~~~~~~~~emRouww Oftcw                              -         -       -
cce fOmar                  Chalruno                   Khulna                                            (50 Eeyol)
(2 ol Closs lOtt Lasl)    (2 at Class 11 Off. e )   (2 at CkiO   11ON. LVel)                                                      2 Halche   (vsol's
ICI I oxs |aL                                                                                                                                        6 & H  (|Mau
I  Exl. A.sLstantS  1     Ext. Asxlonts    jj       Ext. Astants                                                                                             Ste & EcM. omcoo Specialsts)
Ext. Asslstants  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~(80Leel'(SS Le~ml) 
(4at l4thGrode)          (4a1 i4thGrode)    |       4 (Aof14 thG4ode)                                      ( IL ?           I  1  Htc                                                                         I
(CIass 110ff (Cb eit )   1           l
farm & Tailnln
Accounting Offwicermvsc
(SO Levl)'                                         (SO Lvel)
A4 Demonsratin 
Pe & Admm Officer                                     Faom n   TrdAning
IFt0  finck*  clanItinc                                                                                   Sldhod
2   S enak Scieniffc Officer
I SO = Scionlifc Offc
WoV   Ban-27227



-81-
BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
Embankments for Madn Shdmp Forming Inrastrcu
RIVERSIE          CrO lG-el                    t4o                 LANDSVE
4-6c;3aaDs;t(-)                  a         3    r ee YAO
V&L k runced b-o Tde  +14 (ltiS0 fw AsO  GuLe
---3~~~~P                                                  77t- 17
SECTlON PA  MAIN FLOOD PR07ECTION EMBANKMENTS
Cr est    muk Level Aes
LANSE               'I                                       SMPFARMDE
rm77                                                  f7v7/,'',7//////'S/77 7-I
GAound Lewel VI. typiooy +d to 7
SECTION 9B-. SECONDAR  EMBANKIMENTS
N0741  GI C,e4sOo 6 fOlSo mo  lan r adicon ebellw, 
2 feiopite 4rrnae to ineceptol Qwto ulo.v   sot1eeag
Ns 7Vans. TypicaNv W
be-87        CeSt 4 Above Averae Gron l.6
*  K>/77/                                             r  nrF7w77J
| 'e fr/ 7 /77/           ////7 channel
Chionnei Iner 3 BlwM    t  LvlSDq
Awn        -L                                                     Avernae G unc Lev
SECinON C-CR SUPPLY/DRAINAGE CHANNR EM8AWCMENIS
1S A1|^                                         1       Ara el h ers01asof9olvj  /charoIrem
Mbe V sjcvOed into sevewu av,~ Wrya eacho
lv                                                  arMi un*DanseReLeronwoed as pw o ale team mvestrierir
c         mcx Danage Regulator Pov,de to
Ass Deslllk/D  wtsebe a Drcinage
E  rE  = -  '    :     S          jr         ~~~~~~~~~Ctbnenris AvWbbe
;! 1 s - - I ~~~~~~Seep gDtn
1+  c                IA eovels ce refeae
toPWD daum
lRan or Man 9Swmp Farwg Blk
(Schemofic)
NOT TO SCALE
w|d NV* - 



-82_
BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECr
REGULATORS FOR MAIN WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE
General Afrongement of Typical Supphi/Dlnoge Slruce - Type A
GKSe Uffkg G-em
- i    -    y          ~~~~C +14.5Khuk=D~s
suprrD8Io -C                            +16.50mtsfiazasro
st, t >nooechurnel_l |   _|_/ X  ~ ~ ~ Tid Vdw eve
SKiing
Ty~~~~ R~~~~  Funcilon ~ ~ ~ ~ sig
A      5*'1--6 o    s 1ctJ S'yi71
C          65   I    I a| EE ^y/w 
o-  -  6      2    Suf O-              l*                           -
/ 6-5  1   S0yOnJr
I    \~5 ____                       . rGuide
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mi R ,                          'tk
5OOCa     5ji              -ix oe                Bric     _ __w
ToCm Block               Culr fnn
RD"ORS  RE2UIREDS _N
H      45  56   2    W  /fl
c~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 6                         _    _ _ _iai



-83-
BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
Farm Improvements, Embankments and Regulators
Fawn Water 9Sup1l and Dmaage Regula
SupplV/Dalnrge Chonnel to Main Bbck
bm the a-edit Pfovi5loDdingErfbaramn
tB                                                                              F .  t Hve  andanet e 
Pond         -Mkx)6 fr B-&m
A/2 NomInaA  a                                      As  e
.                                               ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A A|
The outer pt1nmeter of  and is UaSLK  th_V
Acetunensites wouldbi Pwvided undrar  
< mdn ShdmP Famz(see Figue 26) -
Paet Plan sh hvm*  spfomu*dowog mwaad haeo
dionrow to bme pidded unde8  lr faf bMece fctu The araenX"o fis
s3wrof Thnbe dricw ultoeglaos of prexrrt requed temshave aK*deqa
No tes.. Enbagormty s hr tida  ZS5 si  sJate  and o aest heht da  4a
above oveae 9"dO klwel- Crest width is A2 B 10rA -a2
2Z Nkan ran zes of 60haL 30rwa ana 20ha Would be, MespecnWv*.
1/2. 114. ancl 1/6 oft he avroe sized mriin avrrp  Rgyf bo:k
AcU  szswLd t6 dd  bv R>d ownershi pOte nd
topogrihiC detoil.
3 Trer or brr- buM eoubatc are mqied 10 ha  adeqjote
cdbciy for tidal supdo wocer cod lor scrfe storm ckoirnoge.
WOWd Bonk -26930



_84-
BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
Shrimp Hatchety for Proect Ilrnpementation Unit
Opon Topped
OutdOor Trni"
24  25                    21  22
12
Waler Store Tonis                          Mochine Rooms
.175
1    1 02   - 4u o o 5so H                                                                  11
Main Hatchersy Building                Continuous Pitched Roof Wth Transucent Panel
Bullding PortyOpenSded
13                         12
14                                              7T
15                                                                                 Open Topped
OutdoorTaonks
BULDINGS SCHEDUE             SER'CE  ILDrNG
MAIN -ATcHEL J e-,ExrG
14 carDens1v
I Office                    15 MechiancsRloom
16                   2 IkshoQ                    16 Storage
88'                              3. Routine Loorabarv         17 BOohroom
4 Matel Storage             is Kitchen
17      18                 5 SpaW Tans                 19 Lumn Roorn
6 Artemio Room              20 Dtory
7 Plarton RPoorm
8 Artifici Sesmn*oton Room  OIJJDING
19                  9inspection Roor             21 Aeration PoOnh
10 So5wflng Tank             22 Gererator
11. Larval TonKs
V;ATr5rORAGE               ! _ 0  10    20     30    _0 50
OUTDOOR 1A4N                   AERII                            I                       
20                                               23. Water Towier                        Scole in Feet
12 ! arvol Tanks             24 Frsh Wler Tank
131 PRotonTcnks              25 Sct? Water Tonk
Se"Uice Buildinug                                                                                        Word Bonk - 26931



_85-
BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
Demonsraion Fafn and Training CGnter fbr Project Implbmentatlon Unit
CentSu        Dnoge                      Lcu  H  &
Security Fence                                 Pond Area About Bho
Notes  I EBAANMENIS houe 125ieloscn-  mepa"~e
~ve 1:a Crest Ieal sin klai area 4- abowe averoge groLznd
vel Cresr 'vel on nkd creek or wtwe exposeto noockmang to
be as br coastal embankments. Crest vAdthon perlmeter(A-A)
and dIdirg Donds (5-B) is 6 Crest wKit is 8- dong centrc
svoly/cratnage channel (CC)
2 ReguLltors ae bnck or timber construction and htave
adequate ca,aciv tao storn  aoraage
3 A mapin a gXYCi reglator on the tidW cxnel maV be
required Ot an eristinx structure is not aVankable
WOrldJ Barik - 26932



ffi  x                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBR 1169
~~~- ~~~~~                    O~~0DHMAI
0 ___                              ;  -   -;                         I N D I A     
-,jf~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I
'EL
I f                                       '-'-'"                  'l .\      JS        2
dial'.                                               -Lb'S ' 
FflgeS X     WBAY OF BENGA|
-lA -                                                  Cows 
BANGLADESH
INDI A                /                       SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
BURMA                LOCATON OF PROJECT AREAS
*  Natio"al capital
o  Urban Cantom
.s BAY OF BENSAL                                            Bo-ndar,es
/             , ,  .:-eA   :
A_    ,      -    -,,_-_0                                   25           75  KILOMErEM
W A' tU91
~so                                                o 40uLk
JANUAARY 1965



I  ANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
POLDER 20, KHULNA DISTRlCT
ROAD AND RIVER COMMUNICATIONS
Project Area                                                      Chu       x,naga
*   Proposed Mobile Extension Unit                                     /   /         -h0o
R Proposed Demonstrotion Form
Polder Numbers                                                          !.muri\
Embonkments
Main Roads
D Oivision Capitol                                                                                                                             t
0   District Copital                                 TVlE
0   Upozila Capitols             Ai 
o   Other Cities
International Boundaries                                                                               1     IH
I N  D  I A
3      4~~~~~~~~~~ 
7/2                    ~
Z                 \  ~~N Ku iganj ~~-                                                                                  a      KILOMETERS
14/2
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



I BRD 18700R
To CDhirSgog O
/      8\        /      ,)    >-
(                                                                                       BJV  B A N G L A D E S H
J    ,<  \\                     \         .                                  SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
''    )|     >         i,                                    COX'S BAZAR DISTRICT
o t j, /!   *}    IiK9r-\-~                             ROAD AND RIVER COMMUNICATIONS
8 \ /  ,    54/2B ))                                                        PROJECT FEATURES:
C     0      l 9s             ,  /65/A3                                                         ::     Projeci Areos
71~~~~~~~-                                                                        Embonkmenits
*    Mobile Extension Unit.
/ /|        . 64/2              6412B                                              A .  PIU Hatchery
/ ~~~~~~~'                                    a               U~~~~~~~~~~   Demonstration Farm
/41B J/; lEXISTING FEATURES:
~~~.  ,,-'-- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~64   Polder Numbers
i   1&-           A C o)noi    i                     Embankments
(   f(  /                                                              ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Main Roads
7~~~~~~t, ~~~~~~~~~~~                                         S~~~~~  Disirict Capifal
B /.                                                        0    Upozilla Heodquarters
\.  65/Al                      a    Other Cities
Rivers/Channels
Ba&rkholi
\zz nit    G .e        . 7             -For detail see
b9 |9 t / 4 b ~~~~~~IBRD 18703.
/           ~~~69
66/
\                jJ       >-s_    r Napi~~~~~~~~~~~~~tk holi
/
1-'z             X        V        66
S         /   \'it      66R2        \                        ~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~KILOMETERS 
\  '                  /       '     '                \           O       -~~~~~~6/  0 2    4  i  6
~~~~_,__ ~~~~Cox's Bm   
'\\ _,_,                                                                                                               1985
NOVEMBER 1985



IBRD 18701
POLDER 17/1                                      POIDER 29
BA N G L A DE S H
5                                    SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
POLDER 20 & 20/1
- i*  -.    t  a                      PROPOSED BLOCK LAYOUT FOR
(  |  (        Z                       *             \    -       SHRIMP  AND  RICE  FARMING  CYCLE
POLDER 19
1                                    \ .                     PROJECT FEATURES:
.................                                                    2    Block Num bers
Guachoba           6                                              Secondary Embonkments
6    Madhukhali           -                    Supply/Drainage Channels
_-   . X  . -    .                                 *   Supply/Drainage Regulolors
/                              --                                       --             4 | _. EXISTING FEATURES:
1                                         7<                                                 Maoin Embankments
i    .  y       4                .           _                                           0 *   Main Drainage Regulolors
...-'                                ~~~~~~~~~~0 Minor Droinage Regulators
(                                                                                           4 { . (  .  3.0  Elevation above PWD Daium (ft.)
Main Rivers/Channels
/. .                .~~~~~~~~............
/                    2                \              8gai  50
|   /             3  ~~~~P  O   L D     R    2   0
!          - - - - - - -1  Oighalia     i/        / /
/ Hanimurskic                   . -
POLDER 20/1
.                       J     I4          I                                       -f>
0      KILOMETERS     I
._ t__8 -   ~                                                                                           MILES
POLDER 21
fl   t - _ -J d9_
JANUARY t985



IBRD 18703
BANGLADESH
SHRIMP CULTURE PROJECT
POLDER 6614
PROPOSED BLOCK LAYOUT FOR
SHRIMP AND SALT FARMING CYCLE
PROJECT FEATURESz                                                                  -
2   Block Numbers
Secondary Embankmoant
Supply/Drainage Channels
*   Supply/Drainage Regulotors         j.
EXISTING FEATURES:                                                                                             To -  c---j >T oo 4
Main Embankments                                                           ))/J  / }                       Jo|Clu/ go..:.
*   Drainage Regulators                \     >        ,J\                     ((_,
EI Elevation above PWD Datum fft.) l0
Main Rivers/ Channels                                . . .                                                          |
/ ,~/ ifE..   .?
/        /~~/       \              ;--    _I
' 1 ' '' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~*  }                                           /
ii  /   ,POLDER\66 64
7o                                                                              '    -      -
'7                                   .~~~~
MILES
/
/                                                                o   _e><n^_, ~~~~~_        t_ _,,=o 
k ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~                              ~AUR  198






