CREDIT NUMBER 1651 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Shrimp Culture Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1651 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                       74     , 1986, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBIC OF BANGALDESH (the    orrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATTON (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations
Development Programme (hereinafter called UNDP) a grant (the UNDP
Grant) in an amount of $4,500,000 equivalent to assist in financ-
ing Part D of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth
in an agreement (hereinafter called the UNDP Project Document) to
be entered into between the Borrower and UNDP; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
(the General Conditions), with the deletion of the last sentence
of Section 3.02 thereof, constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "BB"   means   the  Bangladesh  Bank  established  under
Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (President's Order No. 127 of 1972);
(b) "SB" means the Sonali Bank established and operating
under the laws of the Borrower;


﻿-2-
(c) "BKB" means the Bangladesh Krishi Bank established and
operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(d) "DOF" means the Department of Fisheries of the Bor-
rower's Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock;
(e) "BWDB" means the Bangladesh Water Development Board
established and operating pursuant to the Bangladesh Water and
Power Development Boards Order, 1972 (President's Order No. 59 of
1972);
(f) "PIUo means the Project Implementation Unit established
within DOF pursuant to paragrapb 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment;
(g) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and Bangladesh Bank pursuant to
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(h) "Participation Agreements" means the agreements to be
entered into between Bangladesh Bank and the Participating Banks
pursuant  to  Section  3.02  (c) of   this  Agreement, as    said
agreements may be amended from time to time;
(i) "Participating Banks" means SB and BKB, and such other
banks as the Borrower and the Association may agree, which have
entered into a Participation Agreement with Bangladesh Bank
pursuant to Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(j) "Ultimate Borrowers" means any person, group of persons
or  any  other   entity  eligible  to  receive  a  loan  from   a
Participating Bank under the Project, for investments in shrimp
farming, marketing equipment or hatcheries;
(k) "Project Area" means an area comprising the Main
Project Area and the Additional Project Areas;
(1) "Main Project Area" means an area consisting of about
1,400 ha in Khulna district and about 5,600 ha in Cox's Bazar
district;
(m) "Additional Project Areas" means about 2,500 ha of
Project Area to be selected by the Borrower and approved by the


﻿-3-
Association pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement and for
which extension services, credit and training are to be provided
under the Project; and
(n) "Special Account" means the Account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 20,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be finance1 out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A and C
of the Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account
in Bangladesh Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1991 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.


﻿(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing June 1, 1996, and ending December 1,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 1, 2005 shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Unites States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and fisheries practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from


﻿-5-
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.
(c) Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall ensure that adequate funds will be
allocated to BWDB for the operation and maintenance of Project
facilities.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend to BB for
purposes of Part B of the Project the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to Category (3) of paragraph 1, Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BB upon terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Association, which shall include those set forth in
Part I of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall cause BB to enter into Participation
Agreements with the Participating Banks providing for the on-
lending of the funds lent to BB by the Borrower for purposes of
Part B of the Project, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, which shall include those set forth in Part II
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(d)  The Borrower shall ensure that short-term credit to
ultimate borrowers under the Project shall be made available by
the Participating Banks and refinanced by BB upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall select the Additional
Project Areas in accordance with criteria satisfactory ti the
Association and shall furnish to the Association, fe; its
approval, proposals for inclusion of such Areas in the Project.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause Bangladesh Bank to
prepare and furnish to the Association, a Banking Plan which
shall include, inter alia, Bangladesh Bank's role in the imple-
mentation of the Project, proposals for banking coverage of the
Project Area (including the involvement of the Participating
Banks in a supervised credit scheme), lending targets, and
phasing,   staffing  and   training  arrangements,   criteria  and
procedures for loan processing, procurement and construction,
coordination arrangements, and supervision, monitoring and
reporting requirements.
Section 3.06. In order to ensure the timely acquisition of
the land required for the construction of the embankments, and
other structures included in the Project, the Borrower shall
submit or cause to be submitted land acquisition plans to the
concerned Deputy Commissioners at least nine months before the
land is needed for construction; and to this effect the Borrower
shall provide or cause to be provided to the concerned Deputy
Commissioners, in a timely manner, the funds, vehicles, survey
equipment and staff necessary for verification and approval of
land acquisition plans.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof, including, without limitation to the fore-
going, records and accounts in accordance with normal commercial
practices with respect to the hatcheries to be operated by PIU.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section including the Special Account
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;


﻿-7-
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by the said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said record.- as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after Association
has received the audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable   the   Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
Section  4.02. The   Borrower shall carry out a program
designed to recover the full cost of investment and operation and
maintenance of the embankments and regulators constructed or
rehabilitated under Part A of the Project. To this effect the
Borrower shall:


﻿- 8 -
(a) by December 31, 1987 enact legislation and take
all other measures necessary to set recovery
charges which will ensure full cost recovery
within a 20 year period;
(b)  thereafter make such biennial adjustments to such
charges as shall be warranted by actual investment
and operation and maintenance costs; and
(c) improve its collection procedures as necessa,ry to
ensure full payment of the recovery charges
specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) above.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) a change shall have been made in the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or in the Participation Agreement without the Asso-
ciation's consent; and
(b) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor; or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
of the Association that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and


﻿- 9 -
conditions consistent with the abligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are speci-
fied:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
UNDP   Project  Document   (other   than,  if . applicable,   the
effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled;
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agremeent and the Participation
Agreements have been entered into pursuant to Section 3.02 (a)
and (c) of this Agreement;
(c) a Banking Plan, satisfactory to the Association, has
been furnished to the Association pursuant to Section 3.05 of
this Agreement;
(d) the key staff for the PIU has been duly appointed
pursuant to paragraph 1 (ii) of Schedule 4 to thIs Agreement;
(e) two Superintending Engineers within BWDB have been duly
designated pursuant to paragraph 3 (ii) of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and
(f) the Project Proforma for carrying out the Project have
been approved by the Borrower.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower
and BB and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BB in accor-
dance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date 90 days after the date of this Agree-
ment is hereby specified for the purp7ses of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
Se:tion 6.04. The provisions of paragraph (b) of Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the
date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary or any Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of the
External Resources Division of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:                       Telex:
BAHIRSAMPA-0                       642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka


﻿- 11 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works               10,400,000       90%
(including con-
struction mate-
rials)
(2) Equipment and                800,000        100% of foreign
vehicles                                   expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 70%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Loans under Part B                         80% of the amount
of the Project                             disbursed by BB
to refinance such
(a) under Part B (i)      3,500,000        loans
(b) under Part B (ii)     2,000,000
(4) Staff salaries             2,000,000       Amounts specified
and operating                              in the Annex to
costs                                      this Schedule
(5) Unallocated                1,900,000
TOTAL               20,600,000


﻿- 13 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b)
expenditures in respect of Category (3) (b) until the Association
shall have approved the selection of Additional Project Areas
pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement.


﻿-14 -
ANNEX
Staff Salaries 1/ and Operating Costs
1.   Disbursement shall be made as follows:
Percentage of
eligible expenses2!
to be financed until
all disbursements
under Category 4 reach                Aggregate
the aggregate amount              amount expressed
opposite to each                   in SDR
percentage                      equivalent
95%                          1,000,000
80%                          1,300,000
60%                          1,700,000
40%                          2,000,000
2.   Disbursements will be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure made by BWDB and PIU.
1/   For  the purpose of    this Annex, the term     "Salaries"3/
includes allowances.
2/   Eligible expenses comprise incremental staff salaries and
operating costs of BWDB and PIU.
3/   Incremental staff means all staff of BWDB and PIU working
full time on Project implementation; BWDB and PIU staff
working part time on Project implementation will also
qualify in proportion to the contribution.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to intensify the produc-
tion of shrimp thereby increasing shrimp exports, farm incomes
and nutrition in coastal areas.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Shrimp-farming Infrastructure
Construction, in the Main Project Area, of embankments,
water control structures and shrimp hatcheries.
Part B:   Medium-term Credit
Provision of credit by BB through refinancing of loans made
by the Participating Banks to Ultimate Borrowers: (i) in the Main
Project Area, to finance on-farm investments, hatcheries, and
marketing equipment, and (ii) in the Additional Project Areas, to
finance on-farm investments and secondary embankments.
Part C:   Institutional Support to DOF and BWDB.
Strengthening DOF and BWDB through the establishment of a
Shrimp Culture Extension Service, the carrying out of civil works
(including the construction of two Demonstration Farms and Train-
ing Centers and one office building for DOF headquarters) and the
provision of equipment, staff and operating costs.
Part D:   Technical Assistance and Training
Provision of consultants' services, training and overseas
fellowships.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1991.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured
in Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in accor-
dance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works (other than those for Part B of
the Project) shall be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for equipment and vehicles (other than those for
Part B of the Project) which, to the extent practicable, cannot
be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more, shall be awarded on the basis of local competi-
tive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association, up to an
aggregate amount of $500,000; provided, however, that items of
equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $10,000, up to an aggregate amount of $100,000 equivalent, may
be procured through prudent shopping on the basis of at least
three price quotations from different sources.
3.   Civil works and equipment and vehicles for Part B of the
Project may be procured through normal commercial channels.


﻿- 17 -
Part D.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to the first contract for each type of
civil   works   (embankments,   regulators  and   buildings)   and
thereafter each contract for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, and each contract for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5
(the Special Account Schedule) to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of


﻿- 18 -
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to   the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower will    (i) promptly establish, maintain and
operate   the   PIU   with   staffing,   powers,   functions   and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, and (ii)
promptly appoint thereto the following key staff necessary for
its initial operation: a Project Director and an Assistant
Director Extension.
2.   The Borrower will cause PIU: (i) to assist the Borrower in
the monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including, but not
limited to, the monitoring of the agricultural aspects in the
paddy/shrimp rotation in Polder 20; (ii) to set up operation and
maintenance committees, satisfactory to the Association, in each
shrimp-farming block constituted under the Project; (iii) to
liaise closely with BWDB; and (iv) to carry out all training
ac,:ivities under the Project in accordance with a training plan
which shall be furnished to the Association for approval by
December 31, 1986 and updated thereafter by December 31 of each
year of Project execution.
3.   The Borrower will cause BWDB to: (i) operate two separate
Field Divisions, each headed by an Executive Engineer under
the supervision of a Superintending Engineer with staff, powers
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association; and (ii)
promptly designate two Superintending Engineers each to be
responsible for the supervision of the work program of the
respective Executive Engineers referred to in (i) above.
4.   The Borrower shall take all necessary action, including the
passing of legislation, to ensure that, by December 31, 1986,
DOF, or any other department or agency of the Borrower, will be
given the authority to grant: (i) long-term saline water intake
permits for the Project Area, and (ii) long-term leases of not
less than 10 years in public land (with reasonable fees) to
shrimp farmers in the Cox's Bazar district (Rampur).


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Parts A and C of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the   term   "Authorized  Allocation"  means   an  amount
equivalent   to  SDR   1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to para-
graph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent with-
drawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Aithorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 21 -
expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supportiTcg the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to eligible Categories for Parts A and
C of the Project, minus the amount of any out-
standing agreement to reimburse made by the
Association with respect to Parts A and C of the
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories for Parts A and C of the Project shA1l follow
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as
of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any


﻿- 22 -
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association for crediting to the Credit Account) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Association into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made
such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 6
Lending Terms and Conditions
Part I
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
1.   Borrower to BB
(a) Annual interest rate of not less than 6% (before deduction
of a foreign exchange risk fee of 2.5%).
(b) Repayment period of 12 years.
(c) Foreign exchange risk to b,e borne by BB.
(d) Refinancing of up to 80% of BB's refinance.
2.   BB to refinance short-term credit made available by Partici-
pating Banks to Ultimate Borrowers.
Part II
Participation Agreements
1.   BB to Participating Banks
(a) Annual interest rate of not less than 8.5%.
(b) Repayment period of 8 years.
(c) Refinancing of up to:
(i) 72% for loans for hatcheries and marketing equipment,
and
(ii) 78% for loans for on-farm investments.
2.   Participating Banks to Ultimate Borrowers
(a) Annual interest rate of not less than 16%
(b) Repayment period of 5 to 7 years.


﻿-24 -
(c) Refinancing of up to:
(i) 70% for loans for hatcheries and marketing equipment;
and
(ii) 90% for loans for on-farm investments.
3.   Participating Banks to make available short-term credit to
Ultimate Borrowers under the Project as and when needed.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   L..     day of
198   .
FOR SECRETARY


