Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
29L-K C32 Y-?
Report No. 5001b-BAR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BARBADOS
ROAD MAINTENAME AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
May 4, 1984
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Barbados Dollar (BDS$)
Official Rate
US$1.00 = BDS$ 2.00
BDS$ 1.00 = US$0.50
Fiscal Year
April 1 to March 31
Weights and Measures
British/US Units                         Metric Equivalent
1 foot (ft)                              = 0.305 meter (m)
1 mile (mi)                              = 1.609 kilometers (km)
1 sq mile (mi2)                          = 2.589 square kilometers (km2)
1 pound (1 lb)                           = 0.454 kilograms (kg)
1 short ton (2,000 lbs)                  = 0.907 metric ton (m ton)
1 long ton (2,240 lbs)                   = 1.016 metric ton (m ton)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AADT   Average Annual Daily Traffic
BPA    Barbados Port Authority
CDB    Caribbean Development Bank
CIDA   Canadian International Development Agency
DOT    US Department of Transportation
EMS    Equipment lianagement System
ERR    Economic Rate of Return
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
IDB    Inter-American Development Bank
MFP    Ministry of Finance and Planning
MMS    Maintenance Management System
MTW    Ministry of Transport and Works
PPO    Policy and Planning Office
TB     Transport Board



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BARBADOS
ROAD MAINrENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   PROJECT SUMMARY                ............. .                    1
II.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR   ......... .........................        2
A. The Transport System. .* ...... .........*.......*........    2
(i)    Maritime Transport         ...... ........... .            2
(ii)   Air Transport ...............                              3
(iii)  Road Transport ...........................  .... ....      3
B.  Sector Issues and Strategies .................  ........      4
i)    Planning and Coordination .          . .4................. .....  4
(ii) Highway Investment Plan                . . .                 5 
(iii)  Road Maintenance ... .. ........    ........... ...        5
(iv)   Road User Charges             . . ........        .        6
xv)    Urban Traffic C       ongeseone ......                     6
(vi)   Transport Boa       rd r........................           7
(vii)  Axle Loading Restrictions ................                 7
C.  The Bank's Role in the Transport Sector .............         8
III.   THE PROJECT ........................................................... 8
A.  Background ........................................ .         8
B.  Project Objectives ...............                            8
C.  Project Description ..      ..    ...............................    9
(i)    Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation ............... .      9
(ii)   Highway Safety          ..... .         ........ .....    10. 
(iii)  Institution-Strengthening ..........................   10
D.  Costs and Financing                                 ......   11
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Barbados in January 1984. The mission comprised Messrs. R.N. Panfil
(Economist), B.J. Sisson (Engineer), A. Martinez (Financial Analyst/
Consultant) and W. Griswold (Bus Specialist/Consultant) and was assisted by
G. Cunningham (Maintenance Engineer - U.S. Federal Highway Administration).
The report has been edited by Miss Virginia Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanct-
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
E. Execution                 .. ...............  11
(i)  Timing and Organization                .        ..   12
(ii)   Procurement and Disbursement ................ .          12
(iii)  Accounting, Auditing and Monitoring    . .               14
(iv)   Environmental Impact .........................           14
F.  Benefits and Risks ..................................            14
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                       . . .                      15
A. Organization                    ........ .   15
B. Cost Estimates                       ..    16
C.  Disbursements ...................        .........               18
D.  Monitoring .............. ......................... ........     18
E.  Accounting and Auditing ...............                          19
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION               ...    19
TABLES
1. Port and Airport Traffic    ..21
2.   Inventory of Roads by Class/Maintenance District.                          22
3. Vehicle Registration (Year ending May 3               1        )             23
4. Transport Infrastructure Investment, by Mode                                 24
5.  Five-Year Highway Investment Plan    ..25
6. Road Maintenance Expenditures                  ..26
7. Road User Charges                       ..27
8. Equipment Cost                         ..28
'.  -ummary -' E:3nomic Evaluations    ..29
10. Summary Account by Time              ..30
11.  Disbursement Schedule ..........................                   ......  31
12. Project Monitoring System Input D a t a                                     32
ANNEXES
1.   Highway Safety Programo                   g       r      am........ .      33
2.  Institution-Strengthening Programs    ..35
3. Project Monitoring......   50
4. Economic Evaluation                ..52
5.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Flle                  59
CHART
1. Implementation Schedule               ..60
MAP
1.   IBRD 17750R - Barbados - Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
2.   IBRD 18153  - Barbados - Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
Road Traffic Flow.



-1-
BARBADOS
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Government of Barbados
Beneficiary:   Ministry of Transport and Works (MTW)
Amount:         US$11.0 million equivalent, including a capitalized front-end
fee.
Terms:          15 years, including tlhree years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project        The overall objectives of the project are to assist the
Description:   Government's efforts in improving the road network through
much needed maintenance/rehabilitation and highway safety
works and in strengthening the capacity of MTW to manage road
maintenance and rehabilitation projects efficiently. The
proposed project consists of: (i) road maintenance and
rehabilitation - civil works (64.5 km) and equipment for high
priority road improvement and maintenance within the framework
of the Five-Year Highway Investment Plan; (ii) highway
safety - civil works and equipment to improve hazardous
locations and increase the safety and capacity of the network;
and (iii) institutional strengthening - technical assistance,
training and equipment to improve the operations of MTW in
planning, accounting and cost control, traffic analysis and
control, road maintenance and equipment management, and
materials and soils testing.
Benefits and   The proposed project would help to improve the road networks
Risks:         and reduce transportation costs in Barbados, as well as
improve highway safety and sector management. Considering the
Government's commitment to improving public sector management,
overall project risk is moderate. With the large increase in
road subsector activity, construction costs could rise
sharply. However, International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
should help to relieve the pressure, and, if necessary, the
Government could undertake more work by force account.
Estimated Cost:                         Local   Foreign   Total
(USS million)
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation   5.47         7.55    13.02
Highway Safety                          0.32       0.42     0.74
Institution-Strengthening               0.08      0.38      0.46
Total Base Costs                        5.87       8.35    14.22



-2-
Contingencies
Physical                             0.86       1.11     1.97
Price                                1.32       1.49     2.81
Total Cost 1/                           8.05      10.95    19.00
Front-End Fee                                   0.03     0.03
Total Financing Required                8.05      10.98    19.03
Financing Plan:                         Local   Foreign   Total
(US$ million)
Bank                                   -       11.00    11.00
Government                           8.03         -      8.03
Total                                8.03      11.00    19.03
Estimated Disbursements:                   (US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Annual         1.8     2.5      2.6      2.7      1.4
Cumulative    1.8      4.3      6.9      9.6    11.0
Estimated Rate of Return: 31% (based on an evaluation of conponents
representing 86% of the project costs).
1/ Includes Taxes and Duties of US$0.8 million.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
2.01      The transport system of Barbados consists of an international port
at Bridgetown, an international airport located about 15 km east of
Bridgetown and about 1,370 km of road network. There is no railway in
Barbados. The Ministry of Transport and Works (MTW) is responsible for the
infrastructure and, through the Barbados Port Authority (BPA) and the
Transport Board, for ports and maritime services, and public bus transport,
respectively. The Ministry of Tourism is responsible for aviation and also
operates an airline company.
(i) Maritime Transport
2.02      Almost all imports and exports (mainly sugar, rum and molasses)
are handled in the deep water port (30 ft. draught) at Bridgetown. The port
commenced operation in 1961 and is well served by marine liners which provide
connections with most trading countries. The port facilities, which include
six deep water berths, cargo handling facilities, transit sheds and
administration buildings, were expanded and improved in the late 1970s with



-3-
assistance from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). In addition, the
new Arawak Cement Plant, nearing completion north of Speightstown, will have
its own facility to export cement directly, and there are numerous small
fishing ports located around the island.
2.03      In general, the Barbados Port Authority, which administers the deep
water port, is well run and in sound financial condition. The total tonnage
handled has averaged about 0.6 million tons during the last four years
(Table 1). While total traffic declined slightly during the recent world
recession, the proportion o. containerized traffic has been increasing
rapidly and now amounts to about 50% of the cargo handled. Even with the
decline in traffic, the net operating profits in 1981 and 1982 were
BDS$ 528,000 and BDS$ 759,000 respectively. The Port Authority has
considerable flexibility, which allows it to set tariffs, with the approval
of the Government, according to market and cost conditions. With the
conversion of traffic to containers, which allows greater cargo throughput,
berthing facilities will be sufficient to handle projected traffic during the
next ten years. BPA, under the country's Five-Year Development Plan
(1983/84-1987/88) with an allocation of BDS$ 36 million, intends to improve
the port's capacity to handle containers through the procurement of a gantry
crane and paving of additional storage area.
(ii)  Air Transport
2.04      The Grantley Adams airport is the main gateway for tourists to
enter the island, and tourists represent nearly two-thirds of the total
passenger traffic.  Recently, mainly because of the world economic recession,
the number of tourists and total traffic have declined; total passenger
movement fell below one million in 1982 (Table 1). A new terminal building
and other facilities were completed in 1980 with assistance from the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA). The new facility is designed to
cater to nearly 3 million passenger movements and is not expected to reach
capacity until after 1990. Under the Five-Year Development Plan, with an
allocation of BDS$ 13.4 million, runway repaving and repair works are
expected to be undertaken. In addition to the airport, the Ministry of
Tourism operates Caribbean Airways, which provides international charter
services to Europe.
(iii) Road Transport
2.05      The road network, which has developed gradually over many years, is
adequate in its extent, but in, general, is substandard for present and
future traffic volumes. The surface transport system of 1,370 km of public
roads (Table 2) consists of seven radial highways which converge on
Bridgetown (Map IBRD 17750R). The radial highways are linked to each other
by secon6ary and tertiary (feeder) roads. In addition, there are some 300 km
of private roads. All of the roads in the public system are paved but
usual'ly narrow, ranging from 5.5 to 6.5 meters in most areas. More



-4-
important, because of increased traffic growth, lack of investment and
deficient maintenance, the quality of the road system has deteriorated, and
large sections urgently need rehabilitation.
2.06      Traffic volumes in and around Bridgetown are generally high,
considering that the roads have only two lanes. The average daily traffic on
the radial arterials ranges between 4,000 and 14,000 vehicles (Map IBRD
18153). Daily traffic volumes on most secondary roads away from the urban
area are usually less than 2,000 vehicles and, n- tertiary roads, vary
between 200 and 400 vehicles. Few data are available on historical traffic
growth trends since the Ministry does not undertake traffic counting on a
routine basis. However, based on registered vehicles (Table 3), traffic
appears to be increasing at a rate of 4-5% per annum.
2.07      Transport of goods is provided mostly by the private sector, while
transport of passengers is provided mainly by the public sector. Independent
driver-owners undertake most of the cargo haulage, particularly sugar cane,
construction materials and imports. The majority of manufactured goods,
however, is distributed by captive fleets of the industria7 firms. There are
few regulations on cargo transport and no barriers to entry into the field.
In contrast, the backbone of the passenger transport system is provided by
the public Transport Board, which operates a fleet of over 300 buses
throughout the island. Supplementing the Transport Board are private firms
which provide jitney bus and taxi services. Although regulated, entry into
the passenger transport services has not been unduly restrictive.
B. Sector Issues and Strategies
2.08     Since the port and airport have recently completed large scale
development programs and have adequate capacity for the medium term, most
transport issues in Barbados are related to the road sector. Major issues
involve planning and coordination, the Five-Year Highway Investment Plan,
road maintenance, road user charges, urban traffic congestion, the Transport
Board and axle loading restrictions.
(i) Planning and Coordination
2.09      The transport system is relatively straight-forward because of the
limited number of ports and airports and the lack of competing modes of
transport. In the past, most large-scale investment in the transport sector
had been prepared with the assistance of consultants and international
financing agencies. With the growth of the economy and aging of the road
system, capacity and maintenance problems in the road sector have become more
complicated. Also, developments such as industrial parks, beach resorts and
the cement plant have implications for transportation planning and
coordination. While MTW is one of the largest ministries, unlike other
ministries, it does not have a permanent planning staff. A program to
strengthen the Policy and Planning Office of MTW is included in the proposed
project (para 3.11).



-5-
(ii) Highway Investment Plan
2.10      During the late 1970s, investments in the road subsector were
minimal hecause attention was focused on the development of the port and
airport (Table 4). In the early 1980s, road investments increased with tne
construction of the Spring Garden Road, which provided access to the deep
water port. However, as this project came to a close and because of other
large-scale investment priorities in other sectors and constraints caused by
the international recession, capital expenditures actually declined in
1983/84. Partly as a result of the lack of past investment in the road
subsector, capacity constraints and deterioration have developed on the road
network system.
2.11      With the completion of large investment projects in other sectors,
the Government, in its Five-Year Development Plan, proposes to triple annual
expenditures in the road subsector (Table 5). About 22% of the Government's
capital expenditures are projected to be invested in roads during the
period. The need to divert resources to the road sector is apparent, and the
justification for most of the projects in the plan is evident. However,
during the review of the individual investment programs, questions have been
raised concerning the proposed Northern Access road (BDS$ 23 million), which
is to be financed by the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB). The high
construction costs and heavy axle loading of the cement plant trucks used to
haul clay on this road suggest that alternative solutions be considered.
Further analyses to identify the optimum solutions are being undertaken by1
the project consultants and CDB. Since economic studies have not been
completed, the Government stated that it would: (a) analyze and evaluate the
proposed road and allow for an adequate economic rate of return which would
approximate the opportunity cost of capital in Barbados; and (b) consult with
the Bank on the Government's findings before making a commitment to this
road. In addition, assurances were obtained that the Government would
consult with the Bank before undertaking any road investment project which
involves an annual investment expenditure greater than US$1.5 million.
(iii) Road Maintenance
2.12      Besides the growth in traffic and the lack of investment, the
deterioration of the road system has resulted from inadequate maintenance.
W%hile the level of expenditures for maintenance appears to be adequate, the
funds are not used efficiently. Maintenance funds increased from BDS$ 10.5
million in 1978/79 to BDS$ 18.7 million in 1982/83 (Table 6). Calculations
made during the preparation of the project indicate that, assuming a
reasonable level of efficiency, it would be possible to maintain the road
system in fair" condition with a maintenance expenditure of BDSS 19-20
million.
2.13      The Government, being aware of the inefficiencies, commissioned a
consultant (Booz-Allen & Hamilton, US), financed by IDB, to review the
financial, technical and organizational structure of MTW; a draft final
report was submitted in December 1983. The report made recommendations to
improve the basic management and institutional arrangements within MTW to
overcome major shortcomings in planning, cost control, management of
maintenance and equipment, and soils and material testing. The thrust of the
proposed project is directed toward institution-building to strengthen MTW's
capacity to carry out maintenance efficiently (para. 3.10).



-6-
(iv) Road User Charges
2.14      In the past, the yield from road user charges and taxes covered
both capital and maintenance expenditures in the road subsector. Revenues
are mainly based on fuel taxes, and fuel is priced at about US$2.00 per US
gallon for gas and US$1.60 per US gallon for diesel. In 1981/82, road
charges amounted to BDS$ 30.0 million, while expenditures amounted to BDS$
29.0 million (Table 7). In 1982/83, with the introduction of a transport
levy, charges on road users yielded BDSS 16.7 million more than expenditures
on the road system. The transport levy is a form of payroll tax for the
specific purpose of financing road maintenance and improvement and public bus
transport investments. In the future,expenditures are expected to increase
greatly (para. 2.11), which will consume the excess of road charges over
expenditures. Also, the comparison does not include the large deficits which
are being incurred by the Transport Board, but these should be reduced
(para. 2.18). In addition, most of the burden of the road user charges falls
upon passenger cars, which tend to do the least damage to the road
pavements. Thus, while overall road user charges are adequate, an increase
in the taxes on trucks, which would discourage the use of large single rear
axle trucks, is warranted, and the Government is implementing a tax in this
respect (para. 2.20).
(v) Urban Traffic Congestion
2.15      Bridgetown contains over 60% of the island's population and is the
major generator of economic activities and corresponding transport demand.
The road network within the city consists of narrow roads which are
restricted by existing buildings. On many streets, there is insufficient
room even for sidewalks. As a result of the high transport demand and the
narrow roads, traffic congestion is common, particularly during morning and
evening rush hours.
2.16      To reduce urban congestion, the Government has already started on a
program to improve signalization and has implemented a program of one-way
traffic flows in the downtown area. In addition, an urban transport study
financed by IDB is to commence shortly and will provide an action plan for
improvement of the traffic flow in the Bridgetown area. In the longer term,
the Goverpment, with IDB assistance, is proposing to build a bypass
(Industrial Access road) around Bridgetown which will divert traffic from
the center of the city. Work has already been completed on several lengths
of the bypass, and it is expected that it will be completed during the
five-year period of the Highway Plan. In general, the Government's proposed
approach to improving traffic flows in the urban area is realistic. In the
future, however, there will be an ongoing need to strengthen staff capacity
to implement recommendations resulting from the urban transport study. The
proposed project will partially address this need by establishing a traffic
department within MTW (para 3.11).



-7-
(vi) Transport Board
2.17      For several years, operation of the Transport (Bus) Board (TB) has
been heavily subsidized by the Government. The subsidy amounted to BDS$
11.19 million in 1980/81, BDS$ 15.0 million in 1981/82 and BDS$ 14.5 million
In 1982/83. During preparation of the proposed project, a review of the
Board's operation revealed that about one-third of this deficit Is caused by
discount fares offered to school children and the elderly, for which the
Board is not responsible. However, most of the remainder is caused by
inefficient operations and overstaffing. In particular, deficiencies have
been noted in scheduling and rostering since no formal timetables extst and
there is no through-routing across the city center. Also, procedures and
facilities are not suFficient to maintain the fleet of buses, which has
recently been replaced. In addition, because of staffing practices such as
the requirement for both a driver and a conductor on each hus, the number of
employees per bus amounts to about 7.7. By way of comparison, in Bermuda,
the number of employees per hus is 1.8.
2.18      The Government is undertaking both short- and long-term measures to
improve the efficiency of public transport and lower the deficit.  Collection
boxes are now being installed on each bus, which should eventually eliminate
the need for conductors.  Also, fares have recently been increased from
BDSc 60 to BDSc 75 per ride.  In January 1984, an engineer arrived from
Germany to assist in the training of mechanics during the next two years,
and in April, management hired a consultant to assist in the preparation of
public timetables, bus operating schedules, and drivers' rosters which are to
be introduced in September 1984. In addition, management is starting to
reduce staff through attrition. These actions are major positive steps which
will help to improve TB's operations in the near future.
(vii) Axle Loading Restrictions
2.19      Although Barbados has a gross weight limit for vehicles of 11.2
metric tons, it has been easy to obtain permits which allow heavier vehicles
to travel on the road system. There has been no axle load limit, and no
distinction has been made between a vehicle with d single axle and tandem
axle, the latter causing far less damage to the roads.  Recently, permits
have been given to allow the cement plant to utilize 19 metric ton trucks
(gross weight) with a single rear axle to haul clay and cement.  The rear
axle loading (30,000 pounds) of this truck exceeds the current limit for US
Interstate Highways by 50%.  The damaging effect of one pass of this truck is
equivalent to about 15 passes of an ordinary truck (about 10-ton gross) in
use in Barbados.
2.20      The Government is tackling this problem through several
approaches. A bill currently before Parliament provides for differentiated
maximum weight limits for various categories of vehicles. The Budget for
FY 1984, presented recently, includes sharply higher licensing fees for heavy
vehicles. In addition, instructions from MTW to the vehicle-licensing
authority are in preparation which would restrict the issuance of special
permits. Since Barbados is a small island, vehicle weight restrictions can
best be enforced through import regulations which prohibit the entry of
vehicles whose specifications exceed the legal limits. Therefore, action is
being taken to ensure that future importation of public service vehicles



-8-
would require the prior approval of the vehicle-licensing authority. The
actual implementation of these measures would be a condition for
effectiveness.
2.21      During appraisal, several possible solutions were discussed
concerning the specific problem of the heavy axle loadings of the cement
plant trucks which will be hauling clay from pits to the plant (13.5 km).
Consultants, who are undertaking studies of the Northern Access road, have
been asked to consider several alternative methods to strengthen tie pavement
section. In addition, other possible solutions are: (a) modifying the trucks
by adding a tandem axle; (b) re-exporting the trucks and utilizing smaller
trucks; and (c) limiting the allowable load carried 17 the trucks.  As an
immediate first step, limiting the gross weight of the cement plant trucks to
16 metric tons was agreed during negotiations as a condition for loan
effectiveness.
C. The Bank's Role in the Transport Sector
2.22      The proposed project would be the Bank's first operation in the
transport sector in Barbados. The Bank's sector lending strategy is to
emphasize the improved utilization and maintenance of the existing transport
resources, from which economic returns are quick-yielding and hligh. In
particular, stress is being placed upon assisting the Government in its
efforts to implement institution-building measues within MTW. Although Bank
assistance would include financing a portion of the proposed five-year road
rehabilitation and maintenance program, which will have high economic
returns, the major benefits from the Bank's involvement would accrue from its
assistance in addressing sector issues and toward the systematic elimination
of MTW's operational deficiencies, which have already been identified by the
Government.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Background
3.01      During the last several years, the road network of Barbados has
been deteriorating, mainly because of increasing traffic volumes and heavier
loads, inadequate investment and deficient maintenance. The Government,
aware of the situation, commissioned studies to identify and prepare high
priority projects and institutional improvements. In June 1983, the
Government of Barbados indicated to the Bank that it would welcome assistance
in the highway subsector. A Bank mission visfted Barbados in September 1983,
and it was agreed that priority should he given to a road maintenance and
rehabilitation project. The project was prepared by the Government with
assistance from consultants and the Bank.
B.   Project Objectives
3.02      The project has two principal objectives:
(a) to improve the road network through the execution of much needed
maintenance/rehabilitation and highway safety works; and



-9-
(b) to improve the capacity of MTW to plan and execute road maintenance
and rehabilitation.
C.   Project Description
3.03      The proposed project would consist of three major components:
(a) Road maintenance and rehabilitation
(b) Highway safety
Cc) Institution-strengthening
(i) Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
3.04      This component includes civil works and equipment needed to carry
out high priority road rehabilitation and maintenance within the framework of
the Five-Year Highway Investment Plan. The civil works cover about 64.5 km
of primary roads, most of which lead into Bridgetown (Map IBRD 17750R).
These roads are grouped into four working types:
(a) Realignment (6.8 km) - minor relocation, widening and rebuilding of
the road section;
(b) Reconstruction (24.4 km) - widening and rebuilding of the pavement
section within the existing road alignment;
Cc) Resurfacing (28.8 km) - strengthening of the existing pavement with
an asphaltic concrete overlay;
Cd) Resealing (4.5 km) - covering of the existing pavement with a
bituminous surface treatment.
3.05      The Government originally identified 130 km of rehabilitation
works.  After taking a road inventory and performing site inspections and
feasibility analysis, agreement was reached on the above-mentioned rivil
works. For most of the civil works, preparation has been completed. Line
diagrams anid typical cross-sections have been prepared for the
reconstruction, resurfacing and resealing. For realignment work which
involves more engineering, preliminary designs undertaken have been completed
and final engineering would be undertaken during the first year of the
project. Before bidding, the final engineering would be subject to review
and approval by the Bank.
3.06      The maintenance and rehabilitation component also includes the
provision of equipment which is needed for routine maintenance and execution
of part of the civil works. Based on an analysis of the condition, age,
availability and uLLization of the equipment fleet in the course of the
project preparation, a vehicle and equipment fleet renewal program is
recommended covering the four-year project period. In selecting the
equipment to improve routine maintenance operations, emphasis was given to
increasing the operational mobility of MTW. Equipment for procurement under
the project principally includes dump trucks, pickups and other miscellaneous
maintenance equipment and spare parts (Table 8).



-10-
(ii) Highway Safety
3.07      The highway safety component consists of civil works and the
procurement of equipment. Included in the civil works is the improvement of
road intersections, sidewalks and minor road realignments. Public road
intersections are a major source of accidents, particularly in Barbados where
existing design restricts sight distance and the curb radius makes it
difficult for turning traffic to maintain the proper driving lane.
Furthermore, the narrow roads are restricted by foot traffic. In particular,
two high volume road sections, located near schools, which have no shoulders,
have been included for sidewalk construction (Annex 1).
3.08      The civil works included under the highway safety program have been
identified by the Government based on a review of traffic data and local
knowledge. Final engineering has been completed.
3.09      Equipment for the highway safety component (Table 8) would include
those items necessary to improve striping and signaling along the road
network. Equipment would include striping machines and school crossing
signals.
(iii) Institution-Strengthening
3.10      There is a well recognized need for institution-strengthening in
selected areas within MTW. Based on recommendations of a study undertaken by
consultants financed by IDB, and on discussions with MTW, institution-
strengthening programs have been outlined (Annex 2). The programs cover all
activities necessary to enable MTW to carry out its road maintenance
functions in an efficient manner. The programs were reviewed and agreed
during negotiations.
3.11      The institution-strengthening programs would include:
(a)  Implementation of an integrated accounting system, cost accounting
system for construction and maintenance, and data base system for
financial management.
(b)  Strengthening of the Policy and Planning Office to assist in
improving investment and budget priorities, inter-agency
coordination and in-house capabilities for socio-economic analysis.
(c) Establishment of a traffic department to undertake traffic and
accident surveys and analyses and plan traffic flow and safety
improvements.
(d) Development and implementation of a maintenance management system
to plan and execute maintenance operations more efficiently.
(e) Development and implementation of an equipment management system to
improve the maintenance and utilization of equipment.
(f) Establishment of a material and soils laboratory to improve design
and quality control.



-1 1-
3.12      Technical assistance, training and eauipment would be provided to
assist MTW with the implementation of the institution-strengthening component
of the project. In recognition that the institution-strengthening is a
long-term process, and that capacities must be developed within MTW, about 38
man-months of foreign (26) and local (12) technical assistance have been
provided on an intermittent basis spread over the life of the project. The
technical assistance would mainly take the form of coaching and the provision
of specific expertise when needed. Training would mainly consist of
on-the-job experience supplemented by in-country seminars and courses.
Emphasis would be placed on the development of the key managers in the
various institution-strengthening programs through the establishment of
management systems, particularly in the areas of road maintenance operations
and equipment maintenance. During the preparation of the project, MTW has
been encouraged to form a "twinning" arrangement with a public roads
department in another country, which would be able to provide a wide variety
of expertise and training on an intermittent basis. The equipment procurement
for the institution-strengthening compoLlent would mainly consist of: (a)
laboratory and testing equipment for the materials and soils laboratory; and
Cb) workshop equipment necessary to improve the maintenance of MTW equipment.
D.  Costs and Financing
3.13      The proposed project, based on April 1984 prices, is estimated to
cost US$19.0 million equivalent, including US$0.8 million equivalent in taxes
and duties. The proposed loan of US$11.0 million would finance the foreign
exchange component of the project (58%). The Government would finance the
balance, US$8.0 million equivalent (42%). The maintenance and rehabilitation
component accounts for 92% of the project costs, with highway safety and
institution-building amounting to about 5% and 3% respectively (Chapter IV
following).
3.14      The cost estimates for the civil works have been based on road
inventories, layout drawings, and preliminary engineering depending upon the
nature of the work involved and prevailing unit contract rates. In addition,
an adjustment was made for an improvement in efficiency, particularly in the
case of bituminous surface treatment. Cost estimates for equipment for road
maintenance, highway safety, and institution-strengthening have been made
utilizing manufacturers' quotations, c.i.f. Bridgetown. The costs for
consultants services, which are mostly short-term assignments, are based on
costs of similar assignments and are considered reasonable. Physical
contingencies used were: civil works 15%, equipment 5%, technical
assistance/training 5%. Price contingencies per annum were 7.5% from 1984 to
1988 for local costs and 3.5% in 1984, 8% in 1985 and 9% from 1986 to 1988
for foreign costs.
E. Execution
3.15      Major points concerning the execution of the project are summarized
in the following paragraphs. More details on timing, organization,
procurement, disbursement, accounting, auditing and monitoring can be found
in Chapter IV.



-12-
(i) Timing and Organization
3.16      The project is to be implemented between July 1984 and June 1988.
The Government of Barbados would be the Borrower under the proposed loan, and
MTW would be responsible for the execution of the works. The Permanent
Secretary would be responsible for general project coordination and would
appoint a project coordinator to assist him with this function. The
implementation of the various components of the project would be handled by
the various departments corresponding to the work involved supported under
the project's institution-strengthening component. MTW is now being
reorganized, and several new departments are being established. To
strengthen MTW, key staff positions have been identified and are being filled
(para. 4.03). No special project cell would be established so that the
project impact would be more dispersed within MTW.
3.17      The implementation of the civil works for the road maintenance and
rehabilitation, and highway safety would be undertaken by both private
contractors and MTW force account. MTW would undertake most of the smaller
works, for which preparation and mobilization costs would be high. The use
of both contractors and MTW force account would provide a means of comparing
efficiency. The Bank would agree on MTW force account provided that: (a) the
labor force is not increased to undertake project work; (b) MTW maintains a
program to reduce the labor force in the future through attrition; and
Cc) detailed cost estimates and work schedules acceptable to the Bank are
prepared. During negotiations, assurances were obtained concerning the above
points and that the disbursements for force account construction would not
exceed US$4.7 million equivalent (total cost of US$8.6 million), about 50% of
the total to be disbursed for civil works.
(ii) Procurement and Disbursement
3.18      Civil works to be executed by contractors would be awarded after
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement. Contracts for equipment estimated to cost over
US$40,000 would also be arranged through ICB. Contracts for equipment
estimated to cost below US$40,000 would be procured in accordance with local
tendering procedures which are acceptable to the Bank and are on file. In
accordance with local tendering procedures, items above US$12,500 equivalent
would be procured by public tender and items below US$12,500 would be
purchased "off-the-shelf" with written quotations. There would be an
aggregate limit of US$200,000 on local procurement of equipment.
Consultants for technical assistance and training would be selected and
engaged following the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
(August 1981). Training institutions would also be acceptable to the Bank.
3.19      Assuming that 50% of the civil works for the road maintenance
rehabilitation is undertaken by private contractors (para. 3.18), a breakdown
of procurement and Bank disbursement (in brackets) is summarized as follows:



-13-
Procurement Method
(USS millions)
Category/Project Element
International     Local         MTW
Competitive   Competitive    Force
Bidding       Bidding      Account  Other  Total
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program
Civil Works                  8.61                       7.64            16.25
(4.74)                     (4.20)           (8.94)
Equipment                    0.99           0.19                         1.18
(0.88)        (0.17)                        (1.05)
Highway Safety Program
Civil Works                                             0.97             0.97
(0.50)          (0.50)
Equipment                    0.05                                        0.05
(0.05)                                      (0.05)
Institution-Strengthening Program
Technical Assistance                                             0.45    0.45
(0.36)  (0.36)
Training Equipment           0.10                                        0.10
(0.10)                                _     (0.10)
Total                    9.75           0.19        8.61    0.45   19.00
(5.77)        (0.17)       (4.70)  (0.36) (11.00)
3.20      Disbursements would be made against the following categories of
expenditures:
(a)  55% of the total cost of civil works for road realignment,
rehabilitation, resurfacing, resealing and highway safety
improvements;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment and
spare parts, and 70% of local expenditures only for locally
procured imported equipment and spare parts;
(c)  100% of foreign expenditures for technical assistance and training
and 80% of local expenditures for consultants and institutions
domiciled in Barbados;
(d)  100% of the front-end fee; and
(e)  100% of the initial special account deposit.
Disbursement would be made against standard documentation for goods and
services exceeding US$20,000 equivalent. For work undertaken by MTW force
account and goods and services costing less than US$20,000, disbursement
would be made against statements of expenditures. Reimbursement applications
should be greater than estimated US$20,000 equivalent. In order to reduce
the interval in which the Government would finance the Bank's share of the



-14-
project costs from its own resources, a special account would be opened in
the central bank with an initial deposit of up to US$0.4 million, to be
provided from the loan account.  This special account would be audited by
independent auditors.
(iii) Accounting, Auditing and Monitoring
3.21      MTW's accounting and budgetary procedures fulfill legal
requirements; however, the system has not been designed to provide
information for managerial purposes. The Office of the Auditor General
and MTW's Internal Audit section are understaffed at different levels of
their organizations, and they have almost no professional staff.
Furthermore, the Internal Audit section does not have an independent status.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that MTW would: (a) establish a
system of accounts for the Bank project before disbursement for MTW force
account construction; (b) design and implement an integrated accounting
system by March 1986; (c) establish a separate internal audit department
within the Ministry by February 1985 (para. 4.11); and (d) arrange for
auditing of the project accounts by an independent outside auditor.
3.22      Execution of the project would be monitored through normal
supervision and quarterly reports. In addition, a computerized project
monitoring system would be used to review progress of the project toward its
objectives. The system would be initially established in the Bank utilizing
data collected by MTW. Later, the system would be transferred to MTW to
operate (para. 4.09 and Annex 3).
(iv) Environmental Impact
3.23      Except for short stretches of realignment, most of the road
rehabilitation and maintenance work is within the right-of-way of the
existing roads and would cause little disturbance to the environment. Most
of the sections to be realigned are in the rural areas and would cause little
displacement of people or structures. To the extent that traffic congestion
along the project road sections would be obviated, reduction in noise and air
pollution would result. Also, drainage improvements would, to some extent,
reduce local flooding.
F.   Benefits and Risks
3.24      The proposed project would contribute to the maintenance and
improvement of the transport system in Barbados and would facilitate economic
development. Road transportation is involved in almost every aspect of
economic activity in Barbados, and the benefits from the project would be
widely dispersed. More specifically, the road maintenance and rehabilitation
component would lower user costs on the road network and help to preserve
past and future investment in the subsector. The highway safety component
would improve locations with hazardous driving conditions and thus increase
the safety and capacity of the system. The institution-strengthening
component would increase MTW's capacity to carry out road maintenance and
rehabilitation in a more efficient manner, thus reducing costs and improving
the quality of the road system.



-15-
3.25      Civil works of the maintenance and rehabilitation component, which
accounts for about 86% of the total project costs, were subject to full
economic analysis. For each road section, benefits were measured in terms of
user cost savings, which is the difference in vehicle operating costs and
driver and passenger (automobiles only) time savings without and with the
Improvement. The analysis of the individual sections yielded estimated
economic rates of return (ERR) ranging from 14% to over 60% (Table 9). The
overall estimated rate of return for the civil works of the maintenance and
rehabilitation component was 31%. Sensitivity analyses were performed on a
road section with one of the lowest ERRs, taking into account changes in
construction costs, diverted traffic, traffic growth rates, user cost
savings, road roughness, passenger time savings and the duration of the
pavement. The analysis indicates that, even in the extreme case of no
traffic growth, the ERR for the road section would be 8% (Annex 4).
3.26      Considering the Government's commitment to improving public sector
management, overall project risk is moderate. With the large increase in
road investments proposed under the Five-Year Development Plan, the prices of
road works could increase greatly. However, the large scale projects in the
investment plan and part of the proposed project would be tendered to ICB,
which should somewhat dampen local pressure for price increases. Also, if
prices did increase unduly, the Government would have the possibility of
undertaking more of the project works by MTW force account since they are
relatively small ar., uncomplicated.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
4.01      In addition to the project description provided in Chapter III,
details are provided herewith on the organization, schedule, cost estimates,
procurement, disbursement, monitoring and accounting and auditing which would
be used during the implementation of the project.
A. Organization
4.02      Within MTW and under the general coordination of the Permanent
Secretary, the departments/sections responsible for implementing the various
elements of the projects are:
Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Maintenance Department  -  Execution of all force account civil works except
realignment
Construction Department -  Execution of force account realignment works
Engineering Department  -  Preparation and design of realignment works
Equipment and Vehicle
Management Section       -  Procurement of equipment
Chief Technical Officer -  Supervision of contracted civil works
Chief Technical Officer -  Supervision of MTW force account works
Highway Safety
Maintenance and
Construction Department - Execution of force account civil works
Design Section           -  Preparation and design of civil works
Traffic Department       -  Procurement of equipment



-16-
Institution-Strengthening
Accounting and Budgeting Department  - Accounting and financial management
Policy and Planning Office             - Investment planning and coordination
Traffic Department                     - Traffic analysis and management
Maintenance Department                 - Maintenance management
Equipment and
Vehicle Management Section             - Equipment manager
Laboratory Section                     - Materials and soils testing
4.03      In order to implement the project successfully, the following key
staff would be in position before loan effectiveness:
(a)  Deputy Chief Technical Officer to head road operations;
(b)  Equipment Manager to head the Equipment and Vehicle Sections;
(c)  Engineer to head materials/soil laboratory;
(d)  Senior Technician to assist in design and implementation of the
maintenance management system; and
(e)  Engineer to head Traffic Department.
During negotiations, MTW reported that most of the preceding positions have
already been filled by transferring existing staff and that arrangements were
being made for placing support staff. In add'tion, assurances were obtained
that new positions would be established and staff hired by April 1985 for a
senior planning officer and a planning officer in the Policy and Planning
Office.
4.04      A schedule indicating the implementation of the various project
components and elements is shown in Chart 1. The civil works for the
maintenance and rehabilitation component would be phased over the four-year
project period. The realignment works would be sLarted during the second
year of the project after final engineering and contracting are completed.
Most procurement of equipment would be consolidated and undertaken during the
first year of the project and technical assistance spread out over the life
of the project on an intermittent basis. The proposed implementation
schedule was discussed and agreed at negotiations. In addition, a schedule to
implement key activities of the institution-strengthening component during
the first year was discussed and agreed.
B. Cost Estimates
4.05      A summary project cost table indicating the breakdown of foreign
and local costs by major component and subcomponent is presented on the next
page. Further details of costs by project element and year of expenditure
are presented in Table 10. The cost estimates were updated and agreed during
negotiations.
4.06      The bases of the cost estimates vary according to the type of work
involved. For the reconstruction, resurfacing and resealing works, the cost
estimates are based on MTW and consultants' estimates, which were prepared



BARBADOS
HIGHUAY MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(S BARBADIAN '000)                   (US1  '000)                      Z Total
-----------------------      -       ---------- ------    Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign   Total       Local    Foreign   Total       Ewchande    Costs
A. MAINTENAKCE AND REHABILITATION PROGRAI
CIVIL WORXS                                            10,725.15 13i108.51 23t833,66  5P362.57  6y554.26 11P916.83           55.0     83,8
EOUIPMENT                                                 221.38  1,992.42  2.213.80    110.69    996.21  1,106.90           90.0       7.8
Sub-Total MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROGRAM          10,946.53 15S100.93 26,047.46  5,473.26  7,550,47 13,023.73           58,0      91.6
B. HIGhIWAY SAFETY PROGRAM
CIVIL WORKS                                               624,38    763.14  1,387.52    312.19    381.57    693.76           55.0       4.9
EOUIPM,ENT                                                  7.80      70.20      78.00      3.90      35,10     39.00        90.0       0,3
Sub-Total HIGHWAY SAFETY PROGRAM                             632.18    833.34  19465,52    316.09    416.67    732.76           56.9       5.2
C. INSTITUTION STRENGTHENING PROGRAM
TECHNICAL ASSISIANCE                                      147.31    589,25    736.56       73.66    294.62    368.28         80.0       2.6
EOUIPMENT                                                  18.98    170.85    189.84        9.49      85,43     94.92        90.0       0,7                        -
Sub-Total INSTITUTION STRENGTHENING PROGRAM                  16L.30    760.10    926.40       83.15    380,05    463.20         82.0       3.3
Total BASELINE COSTS                                        11,745.01 l6694,37 28P439.38  5.872*50  80347,18 14i219,69           58,7    100.0
Phusical Contingencies                                    1P722.20  20221,88  3,944.09    861#10  1,110.94  1I972.04           56.3      13.9
Price Continsencies                                       2,636.70  2,989.45  5,626.16  1,318.35  1.494.73  2,813.08           53.1      19.9
Total PkOJECT COSTS                                         16t103.91 21,905.71 38,009.62  8,051.96 100952.85 19,004.81           57.6    133.7
Front End Fee                                                     -     55,00      55,00          -     27.50      27.50      100.0       0.2
Total FINANCING REDUIRED                                    16,103.91 21,960.71 38,064.62  8,051.96 10,980,35 19u032.31           57.7    133,8
l  =2 =1=  = ====:6=19  : - :  =   z_c:-: ::: = ==:====:: :::=::=  -::--:
April 27i 1984 16!1?



-18-
using quantity estimates from road condition inventories and prevailing
contract rates in Barbados for this type of work. In the case of the
realignment work, quantity estimates have been taken from preliminary
engineering designs. Estimates for the civil works under the highway safety
component are based on final designs prepared by MTW and consultants and
prevailing contract rates. Cost estimates for equipment for road
maintenance, highway safety, and institution-strengthening are taken from
manufacturers' quotations, c.i.f. Bridgetown. Costs for the technical
assistance and training have been based on the institution-strengthening
programs outlined in Annex 2.
4.07      The foreign exchange component for civil works has been estimated
at 55%, based on a detailed analysis of both the direct and indirect costs
undertaken by consultants on the Industrial Access road. Based on the
assumption that all equipment would be procured from foreign sources, the
foreign exchange component for equipment has been estimated at 90%. The
foreign exchange component for technical assistance/training is estimated at
80% based on the experience of past consulting contracts in the country. For
disbursements, a provision for 80% of the local consultant costs has also
been provided in order not to discriminate against local procurement.
C. Disbursements
4.08      The Bank has not made previous loans for transportation projects in
Barbados, and no historical data on disbursement rates are available. MTW
has, however, recently completed the construction of the Spring Garden/
St. Barnabas road, financed by IDB, ahead of schedule. Disbursement of Bank
loans in other sectors in Barbados, while starting somewhat more slowly than
expected, has generally been completed within the overall projected time
schedule. Cost tables have been produced using a disbursement period of four
and one-half years. The disbursement schedule was discussed and agreed at
negotiations (Table 11).
D. Monitoring
4.09      The following key project indicators would be monitored against
implementation and disbursement schedules:
(a)  completion of design plans;
(b)  bidding procedures, analyses and awards;
(c)  civil works implementation;
(d)  equipment procurement;
(e)  technical assistance/training procurement;
(f)  progress on institution-strengthening program;
(g)  withdrawal applications; and
(h)  disbursement s:hedule.
In addition, in the quarterly reports, information would cover the sector as
well as the project itself (Annex 3). Information (Table 12-sample input) for
the proposed monitoring system would be collected by the Borrower. The scope
of the reporting requirements was discussed and agreed during negotiations.



-19-
E. Accounting and Auditing
4.10      The Department of Accounting and Budgeting is integrated into four
sections as follows: Vote Book, Payroll, Purchasing and Internal Audit. The
Constitution of Barbados, Chapter IX, Finance Act 1966; the Financial
Administration and Audit, Act 1964; the Financial Rules 1971; and the
Financial (supplier) Rules 1971, are the most important laws that legislate
the public finance of the island, including the accounting and budgetary
procedures and internal and external audit. The accounting records and
financial information are adjusted to the above-mentioned legislation and the
requirements of the Ministry of Finance and Planning. However, the present
system is not designed as a management account, and it does not provide
information for managerial purposes. MTW is now designing the following
systems: general account, cost accounting for projects and maintenance, and
financial information. MTW is also developing a training program for the
Accounting and Auditing Departments in accounting, cost accounting, finance,
auditing and systematization. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the new integrated accounting system would be implemented by March
1986. Also, during implementation, priority should be given to the
establishment of a system of accounts for the Bank project, and assurances
were obtained that these accounts would be in place before disbursement for
MTW force account work.
4.11      The O1ffice of the Auditor General has the responsibility for
performing the audit of the accounts for all Government agencies. MTW's
Internal Audit section is under the Department of Accounting and Budgeting.
The functions of the Internal Audit are concentrated on pre-audit and a
fiscal examination of expenditures ratber than performance of the post
audits. Furthermore, this section does not have an independent status. Both
offices are lacking in professional staff and have limited staff for
supervision. During negotiations, the Bank obtained assurances from the
Government that an independent internal audit department would be established
within MTW by February 1985. In addition, in order to carry out the audit of
the Bank-financed project, the authorities of Barbados would hire an
independent auditor. The first external audit for Bank-financed transactions
would be for the fiscal year ending March 1985, and the report would be
furnished to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During loan negotiations, the following items were discussed and
agreed with the Borrower:
(a) Proposed road investment plan (para 2.11);
(b) Terms of reference for the institution-strengthening programs
(para 3.10);
(c) Proposed implementation schedule (para 4.04);
(d) Project cost estimates (para 4.05);



-20-
(e) Disbursement schedule (para 4.08); and
(f) Project monitoring system (para 4.09).
5.02      Assurances were obtained from the Borrower that:
(a) the Government would consult with the Bank before undertaking a
road investment greater than US$1.5 million annually (para. 2.11);
(b) the disbursements for force account construction would not exceed
US$4.7 million equivalent (para. 3.17);
(c) the accounting and auditing would be improved (paras. 3.21, 4.10
and 4.11); and
(d) the Government would hire a senior planning officer and planning
officer by April 1985.
5.03      Conditions for effectiveness are that the Government would:
Ca) implement appropriate vehicle weight restrictions, taxes and
controls (para. 2.20);
tb) limit the gross weight of the cement plant trucks to 16 metric
tons (para. 2.21); and
(c) appoint qualified key staff (para. 4.03).
5.04      With the understandings indicated above, the project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$11.0 million. The terms would be 15 years, including a
three-year grace period.
May 4, 1984



TABLE 1
-21-
BARBADOS
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Port and Airport Traffic
(Figures in 1000's)
1978       1979        1980        1981       1982
Port
Imports (tons)            337         425        505         476         444
Exports (tons)            118         138        176         112         134
Total (tons)            455         563        681         588         578
Containers 1/             8.1         9.7       11.4        11.7        13.4
Airport
Passengers                948        1113      1147        1100         945
Cargos (tons)              11          12        10          11
_/ Twenty-Foot Equivalent Units
Source: Barbados Port Authority
Grantley Adams Ai.rport
March 1984



-22-                              TABLE 2
BARBADOS
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Inventory of Roads by Class- /Maintenance District
Class Is     Class I   Class II    Class III   IV    Total
Maintenance District            Km            Km         Km               Km            Km
1. North Eastern                6             83         32               98           219
2. South Central                -             88         34              104           226
3. St. Phillips                 -             67         26               79           172
4. Christ Church               12             78         30               92           212
5. St. Michael South            2             47         18               55           122
7. St. Michael North            6             62         24               73           165
8. North Western               13             93         35              110             1
39           518        199              611          1367
1/
Class Is (Special):  Primary Distributors
Class I            : Secondary Distributors
Class II           : District Distributors
Class III          : Local Distributors
Class IV           : Access Roads
Source:   Ministry of Transport and Works
March 1984



-23-                         TABLE 3
BARBADOS
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Vehicle Registration
(Year ending May 31)
Motor Cars          Vans and               Buses         Others
Year    Private  Hired Cars       Station    Lorries   (including    (including
Year__  Private   anred Cars      Wagons                Mini Buses)    Tractors)    TOTAL
1965             11,446            1,067      1,478        210             353       14,554
1970    15,787         1,789       1,961      1,574        213             560       21,884
1975    22,129         1,770       1,949      1,560        257             538       28,203
1980    24,177         2,027       3,157      1,373        329             585       31,648
1983    30,500         1,800       3.440      1,974        392             600(Est)  38,706
Growth
1965-83           6%                 6.5%       1.5%         3.5%           3.0%        5.5%
1975-83    4.1%          0.2%        7.2%       3.0%         5.5%           1.4%        4.0%
1980-83    8.0%           -          3.0%      13.0%         6.0%           0.8%        7.0%
Source: Ministry of Transport and Works
March 1984



BARBADOS
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Transport Infrastructure Investment, by Mode
(Millions of BDS$)
1977/78      1978/79      1979/80      1980/81      1981/82      1982/83      1983/84
(Est) 1/
Roads            2.6          4.5          6.9         10.3         10.2         12.6         11.3
2/
Ports           14.6          3.9          0.1          0.2          2.5          0.4          0.5
Airports         9.7         12.5         11.0          6.0          3.2          3.3          2.0
1/  Includes Transport Levy Fund Expenditures of 1.5 in 1982/83 and 6.5 in 1983/84.
2/  Figures for calender year.
Source: Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure 1977/78-1983/84
March 1984



-25-
TABLE 5
BARBADOS
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Five-Year Highway Investment Plan
(Millions in BDS$)
Total     1983/84     1984/85      1985/86     1986/87      1987/88
Industrial Estates
Access Road         57.88         -          7.47         19.47       16.47        14.47
Northern
Access Road         20.55         0.75       4.00          4.95        4.95         5.90
Highway Rehabili-
tations and          38.12         7.37       8.25          7.25        7.25        8.00
Improvement
Subsidiary and
Ter.antry Roads      11.50        150        1.50          2.50        2.00        4.00
Drainage and
Bridges              21.51         4.37       3.88          3.88        3.88        5.50
Traffic
Management            9.52         1.88       1.88          1.88        1.88         2.00
VehIicles and
Equipment             5.97         1.63       2.84                       -          1.50
TOTAL         165.05        17.50      29.82        3-.,39       36.43       41.37
Source: Five-Year Investment Plan 1983-1988
Ministry of Transport and Works
March 1984



BARBADOS
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Maintenance Expenditures
(Millions of BDS$)
1978/79            1979/80              1980/81              1981/82              1982/83           1983/84
Actual          Budget  Actual       Budget  Actual       Budget  Actual       Budget  Actual        Budget
Roads &
Car Parks        8.7             10.8     9.8         10.9    13.7         13.2    12.7         12.6   13.7           11.9
Workshops 1/      1.4              1.6     1.6          1.7     1.9          2.0     2.0          1.8    1.9            2.1
Drainage &
Safety           0.4              0.6     0.5          0.6     0.6         0.8      0.7          0.8    0.8            1.1
Asphalt 1/
Plant                                                                      1.8      1.0          1.0    1.0            1.0     0
Transport                                                                                             l/     1/
Levy                                                                                             1.3    1.3            1.0
TOTAL            10.5             13.0    11.9         13.2    16.2         17.8    16.4         17.5   18.7           17.1
____   ====    _===   ====    ====    ====    ====          ====   3=             ===
1/    Funding from Transport Levy (50% of total expenditures are estimated for road maintenance).
Source: Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure 1978/79-1983/84
March 1984
T1g



-27-
TABLE 7
BARBADOS
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road User Charges
(Thousands of BDS$)
1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82    1982/83
Taxes on Motor Spirits       11,751     14,125      16,394      17,297     19,700      20,500
Taxes on Diesel Fuel            971       1,088      1,395       1,896      2,514       2,500
Excise Duty on Petroleum      1,119      1,150       1,232       1,318      1,416      1,500
Highway Revenue               2,939      4,154       4,159       4,738      5,534       6,500
Inspection Fees                  34          37         42          50         48          42
Motor Drivers Tests              54          53         52          64         86         230
Parking Places                   40          43         47          64         70         328
Driving Licences                756      1,347         830         876        816         462
Transport Levy                  -          -           -           -          -       10,934
TOTAL           17,664      21,997     24,151      26,303     30,184      42,996
Source:  Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure 1977/78-1983/84
March 1984



TABLE i
IPRU
ISMA  MINFTEMWlE MA  RN240ILITATION POETC
Table 4, ESUIPIT
Di.11. Coso Tabil
Totals IoludirM EonUtn6clas
Duanlilo                                     liss colss                                              (65U0
-----  -  -----------   nt --- -              ------ --    - ----- ------- ..  ..-    ---------     ---- 
Unit M1 M54 1    16 1987 I13 Toatat Cost    2934   1935  9I5M  1937  Itf   Toltl                 114         1931    29 I16  19?  ;nf       Total
1. IHNESlhEHl COStS
................
A. SlNIENANtE AND REPIIALITAIION
.     ............................-
1. PAlo ECOaP
l4rt tFUCI tl CUBIC Mlli)* 10    .    .    -    .    10    21    210.00                                                          *     *      *          250.00    13,109.37            *     -      -     -   13,1-$9.37
COLAS   U  TMANER (1000 1.L)                                                 2    -    -           - .   2    75    ISOM                                 15000  - 4,235.62              ----SO,:SS.6
CHIP SFREAXilOKiDI2 2                                                                                    2    10      20.00  -       -     -      -        OOO       10,704.75          -     -      -     -    10,704.75
-TOl, IROF  IDE fLE                                                              -                -     i    45       3.00      -     *      *     *   270.00    114,51t.12            *      -     -      *   144,514.12
LAND ROVER                                                                   5                           5    43    215.00             -      -          215.00    115,07t.05                  -     *     -   115,C07S.0
- 1,      0*ION   U  ltPIIN RULER                                           4    -        1      -    -  4    2     15.33-                              152.00     813                    1,155.10.
6-lOi R9FSER WMCELED ROLLER                                                  2    -               -    -    -  2   10  20.00           _                 209.00    19704710             -     _      -     -   107,047150
I 1,NC fCCll-END ARlIC lORSED                                                2    -                -    -    -  2   125    270.00      -         -      270.00    144,514.12            -     -      -     -   1414,14.12
F1lLrEi FOPIL SF0A9E0                                                              -    -    -    -      3    25    123.00       -     -      -     -   12.00      00,904,7            -     -      -     -    6t,i04.t9
1Il0LEM  HAND SFRAYEF                                                        7    -    -    -    -       7      3     21.00                -              21.C0      11,219.H           -      -     -      -    11,217.t/
ARC WELDINO ItAOT                                                            I    -    -    -    -       I    30      30.00                               30.00      16,057.13          --                 -      I,057.13
LIGHTING PLANT                                                               2    -    -    -    *       2      7     14.00      -      -            -    14.00       7,493.13          -      -     -      -     71491.33
POlitE COMPRESSOR (250 CU.FI.TNiN.1                                          5    -    -    -    -       5    21    12500-          -      -      -     - 00        0904,69             -     -      -     -       104.69
U100  1000 SE;IESIV lACK  CE I 040                                          I    -               -    -    -  I   145    145.00  -                     145.00      77,109.44          -      -     -      -    77609.04
SIID SlEER LOADR                                                             s    *                -     5    40    200.00       -     -00.00    107.017.50                             -     -      -     -   107-057.50
fWI 'IAI61ER0                                                               4               -           4   1,5      22.00                               22.00      11,775.22          -     -      -     -    11,773.?2
LAiN  AMR                                                                    t    -    -                 6   08        4.0                                 4.10       ,569.14                                    2,509.14
kb-T%tal 0A140 EOuIP                                                                                                  2-211.90      -      -     -      - 2,211.100  1,00,953.77           -      -     -      - l.ll4,i08.73
....     ... ...  ....  ... .....   ... . ...... ......... ..... ..... ............
S4--ctal SAlIEN4itE AND   A116051LITIl3N                                                                                 2.213.80      -2213.00  1,100,909.71                                  -     -      -     - 1,100.90D.78
D. IiSIIIUTION STRENGTHENtI FROtRAM
..................................
1. SOILS I rAIEC14LS Los
......................
CONSITAT IEN, tAIH                                                                                                    1.40            *      *     *      1.40         749.33          -      -     -      -       747.33
IN9LN DEAN *C-                                                                                                         4.20      -     -      -     -      4.20       2,243.00          -     -      -     -      2M21010
INSITU   R                                                                                   ,                         3.36                                3 36       1,773.40                                    1,713,40
0r09AR AND  ,STlE-                                                                                                     0.05      -     -      -     -      9.0S          26.23          -     -      -     -         26.23
SPATUIAS (IIOM   AtUII                                                                                                 0.0-      -     -      -     -      9.06          29.97          -      -     -     -         29.97
MEASUR1NG CYLINtER5
2s0 rL GLASS                                                                                                        0.04                               0.04           22.40          -     -      -     -         22.45
5-0r  4.                                                                   -    -                                      06      -     -      -     -       O            299.7          -     -      -     -         29.97
100o    L OLAOSS                                                                                                     0.01      -     -      -     -     0.OS           04.96          *     -      -     *         44.96
1000 AL GLASS                                                                                                        0.03      -     *      -     -     0.02           14.9S                                       Is.9
EVAFPltIAIN   DISMES                                                                                                   0.11      -     -      -     -      0.11          59.91          -      -     -     -         59.51
TKCEICtER0S 0-05  CENT                                                                                                 0.01      -     *      -     -      0.03          54.99          -     -      -     -         14.b
90CSEN BLONERS                                                                                                         0.17      -     -      -     -      0.17          09.92                -      -79.92
NED. TRAIS 14lUN. 4100450050)                                                                                          0.49      -     -      -     -      0.49         262.27          -     -      -     -        262.27
LRGE TRA0 S I3 P!LPNISED STEEL                                                                                        0.23      -      -     -      -     0.25         119.57          -      -     -      -       149.17
CALIPERS iISO MH                                                                                                       00,7      .     .      .            0.07          37.47                                       37.47
STEEL RLES 1300 M-                                                                                                     0.04      -      -     -     -      0.04          22.45          -      -     -      -        22.41
SAI7LE SPLITIER 0  A4FirE   OX) 1/31N5 2 INM.j0465 SLOT SIZE                           -                              0.10      -      *     *      *       71         374.67          *      -     -      -       374.67
V/IINS 1/2 I.11311 SLOT SIZE                                                              0.56      -     -      -     -      0.56         299.73          -      -     -     -        299.73
EW41AET01   SWLE EXTIURR-                                                                                             0.42      -     -      -     -      0.42         224.80          -      *     *      *       224.30
5ALANCES/0,1s ACUFAC0MT,CLEC,PICITALtAoF-FA
2016 CAPACITI                                                                                                      5.60      -     -      -     -     1.6O       2,797.33           -     *      -     -      Z,997.33
- 00000 CAFPKIT0                                                                                                     4.20      -     -      -     -      4.20       2,243.00          -     -      -     -      2,245.00
- 15004 CAPACITY                                                                                                     3.50      -     -                   3.50       1,071.33          -     -      -     *      1.873.33
SLOTINO IEM  PLATFORM SCALE 10--K-                                                                                     1.40      -      *     *     -      1.40         74S.23          -      -     -     -        749.23
FILTER CANDLES                                                               -     -                                   0.17      -     -      -      *     0.27          5S.92          -      -     *      -        fr.92
VEHTI0RI PF S                                                                                                          014       -      -     -      -     0.14          74.93                                       74.93
SA1i0 t ThER EIOS(SEIT OF 121                                                                                          0.73      -      -     -     -      0.73         339.5          -      -     -      -       369.61
RMOtlR DENSITY                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T
COMPACTION MOLD   IN.9                                                                                              0.25      -     -      -     -      0.2          149.17          -     -      -     -        149.17
COIACTION AtOl  4 IN.                                                                                                  0.25      -      -     -      -     0.21         149.17          -      -     -      -       149.17
COMAPVION 09SYR 10-                                                                     -          -                   0.11      -      -     -          -  0.15         57.41          -      -     -      -         7.41
SAN1 DEXSITY COHE
SAND OENSllf CON    IN.                                                                                             0.25      -     -                   0.25         134.98          -      -     -     -        134.8
FIELD DENSIY FLPIE I IN. HOLE                                                                            -.9l                    -      -     -      -     0.1e          97.41          -      -     -      -        97.41
SPARE nLASIIC SAND JARs                                                                                                0.00 -    -  -               -      0.04          11.73          *      *     *     -         13.73
FINER THA4 75UN IESIINI(2 tFF)
GAS JAR                                                                                                             0.20      -     -      -     -      0.20         104.91          -     -      -     -        104.91
STEEL tOTILE 7000 ML CAACITY                                                                                           0.43      -                  -      0.42         232.29          -      -     -      -       232.29
IHI    I  M. TEST SIEYE                                                         '                    -             0.1       -     -      -     -      0.1           74.9.          -     -      -     -         74.9S
'il  I    I   I1. IEST SIEVE                                                                             -             0.11      -     -      -     -     0.11          74.SI           -     -     -      -         74.91



|             . . --..... -  -  -                                                            -             ..
SLOTINi  BEAN ILATFORA SCALE IOOKG                                                                                           .     --    -                   1.43         749.13           -     -      -     -        749.33
FILTER CADLES l0.17                                                                                                                                    -     0.17          99.92           -     -      -      -        89.92
VENOTLI FINS                                                                                                             0.14                                0.14          74.93                      -                 74.93
SA0I9LT 9TERIA E TERSSSET OF 121                                                                                         0.73      -     -      -     -      0.73         389.65                                       389.65
4OC1CR DENSITT
COMPACTIOIN uOLD 6 IN.                                                                                                0.28      -     -      -     -      0.28         149.87           -     -      -     -        149.87
CONWACTION HLD 4 IN.                                                                                                     0.29                                0.21         149.37           -     -                     149.87
COVACTION  *0(0  IOL                                                                                                   0         -                         0.19          97.41                        -     -         97.41
SAND 0ENsir1 CONE
SAN4D XNSllt COE 6 IN.                                                                                                0.25      -     -      -     -      0.25         134.08          -      -      -              134-.9
FIELD DENSIY FLArTE 6 9N. HOLE                                                 -                                         0.19      -     -      -      -     0.1           97.41                                        91-941
SFARE ILASTIC SANDRS                                                          -0.04 -004                                                                                    18.73          -     -      -                1-.73
FINEA IhAN 75UN IESlltGt2 OFF)
ItAS JAR1                                                                  -    -E5T- 02                              0.20            -                   0.20         104.91                                       i -  -  -  04.91
STEEL ICTTLE 7000 AiL CAPACITY                                                                                           0.43                          -     0.43         232.29           -     -      -     -        232.29
1.1GMI1166)  IN. TEST SIEVE                                                                                              014                   0-     -      04            74.93                                        7493
750UN1200)8 1N. TEST SIM-                                                                           -                    0.14      -     -      -     -      0.14          74.93           -     -      -     -         74.93
SlE    ANISIS---
8I94. DOIETER TEST SIEVES i/                                                                                             0.84                                0.84         449.00           -     -      -     -        449.60
12 IN.lDTAKTER r0  r SIES E$ 'N                                                               1-.54                                                          1.54         824.27                       8-     -         24.27
AsT998  0N, D0A9  425 011(40) SEE                                                                                        0.14                   -      -     0.14           74.91          -     -      -      -        74.93
EULZ SIEVE SHMER I TRWSPORTATION                                                                                         1.68    9-0                                      9S.20                  -      -     -        8l.20
LIUID LIMIT
NAND CIRTED LIID LIMIT DEVICE                                                                                           8.63      -     -      -     -      0.63         337.20           -        -      *           337.20
6S3T CR IN(990   OOL-                                                                                                    0.05                                0.05          2.2-3                     -     -            21.23
CASAGMAO  98E0ING TOOL AND  Mg-                                                                     -                    0.04            -                   0.04          22.41                 -                      2- 2.41
MOISTURE CONTENT                                                                                                            -
CLA198 0824 200 CENT. NOISIMkE EXITRMION12 OFF)                                                                          3.50            3-     -      -      .50       1,973.33           -     -      -      -     173.3
MOIsTuRE CONTENT TINS 900 X 5S                                                                                           0.14                   -            0.14          74.93                 -      -      -         74.93
LARSE MNUlt                                                                                                              4.20            -      -      -     4.20       2,249.00           -     -                   2,248.80
iMGGRIATE  ENSITY                                                                                    -                    -          --
30D09E 8LX1 DENSITY 9EASL1E                                                                                              0.29             -            -     0.21         192.40           -     -      -     -        992.40
15D93 DIK    DENSITY HEAS-                                                                                              0.98 -                 -     -      0.18          97.41                                        97.41
10D83 DIKENSITY FMIA-                                                                                                    0.119                  -     -      0.18          97.41                              -         97.41
DR3 IU3   DENSITY OEASLIRE                                                                                               0.24                  0-      -      .24          927.39          -                           1 927.39
TAWING PAR 380 X 25                                                                                                      9.004     -                            4 -  -  8.0  22.09                      -     -         22.48
3 D901K  DENSITY DV NLICL EAISONETER                                                               . -                                                          -
IOXLER 34119  SWAM50 1M4TUE/DENSITY AETER                                     -                                         13.72        7-         -     -    93.7         7,343.46           -     -            -      7o343.46
COiVRESSIN  1ESTING                                                                                                     - -    -                                                                 -      -      -
C ACT 1000 IXOIHDrDIED C MlAC IOCN FCISNIN
C/8 3000M   lWE. MECOH LOAD  C                                                                                       1-5.40     -     -      -           95.40       1,242.66           -     -      -     -       ,242.66
MM.t LOAN FRE                                                                                                              to4.90  -      -     -      -     490        2.622.66           -        -      *         2,622.66
MOVI8NG RINOS 140                                                                                                                               -.40                      749,33                                       74933
Sue-Totil  SOILS I h1ERIALS LAD                                                                                            79.04      -      -                  79.04      42,34.57                        -      -    42,303.57
2. EOUIPMEN4T 90069EN9
I SINGLE POST -H- DESIGN TrRIEK 91ST                                          I     -    -          -      1    23      23.00      -     -                  2 -    23.00  12.310.46                                 1 92.310.46
S3EM1  CLUAMING 5tANT                                                          I    -                      9      9      9.00             -     -      -     9.00       4,117.14                        -      -     4,97.914
2 FRESSU0E 8W6RS                                                              2    -        -       -      2  14.5      29.00      -     -      *      -    29.00      155219.89                              -    11,521.89
SAND ILA59ING 1CHINE                                                           1                           9  0.45       0.45      -      -            -     0.45          248.86                                      240.06
INJECtOR NOZZLE TESTER                                                        I          -          -      1   0.6       0.60            -                   0.84         329.14           -     -                     321.14
HEAVY4 DU17  0UTI9FLE MT9IER0  CHARGR                                          I    -    -    -    -       9 0.75        0.75      -            -      -     0.75          401.43             -         -      -           .43
cEmREssoOs                                                                     2                           2    l9      32.00      -      -            -    32.00      17,127,00              -      -         -    17,127.60
TIDE CHWA 0R MACHINE                                                          I    -    -          -      1   7.5       7.50      -                   -     750        4,094.29           -     -      -      -     4,014.29
HYDRAULIC LIFT                                                                 I    --                       9.5         9.50                -               8.50       40349,52           -4,34.52
St-Total EOUIFPEttT MANAGEMENT                                                                                             110,00            -10,0                         59,384.39                                   59,304431
St-Total I1SIIUIIDN S9RIGOTHENING  9*0RM                                                                                     159.84      -     -      -     -   189.94    101,607.3                    -      .     -    o019607.98
C. H0GHH4r SAFETY PFRGGR
-   - --- -- -- - ---
STRIPING NAI4INEITTNEI)                                                           -    2                      2    32           - 64.00                         64.00              - 3o297.79        .     .            3-,297,79
SCCOO  XING SIGNALS                                                               -   14                -    14      1          -94,00                         14.00               -  740.14               -            7,943,14
Skb-otal 06HIGHWAY  SAFETY   99M8                                                                                                    78.00                         78.00                 44,237.93                         44,237.93
Total INISTOENT COSTS                                                                                                         2,403.64 73.00       -      .     - 2,491.64  92U.516.66 44.237.93              -  -      - 9W338,754.59
33332333 ..33. ..2.3  .33 ...   3 . 3... 3........S. ....3.a. ..*33.............33 .3.. 33333333
Total                                                                                                                           2,403.00 78.00      -      -     - 20481.64  I,296.51616 44,237.93          -               I- -,330,754,59
:::::::: :--: :--:-- :: ::::::: :_.::: ......... ..M. ..... ..... ..................................  ,,::::::
............_..._._....  .. _________._ ............. ........................ . .....  - - -. -_.  --     -------
/a  75UN1200), 150ISUIIX00   30001UN50)h 500U4 309i, 1.189111916)o          2.361J188T. 4.7111t114), 9.5M911 3/8 INS-),12.5NMM/2 liN.) 9 19403/4 1.) LID MD P1CEIE*R.
/6  2511Il IN.)h  37.5)Htl  1/2 IN.), 501112 1N.), LID AN)D RECE19ER,         6D 3/4 IN.. 3/8 18.14.75M1).
/c PACER I SAFETY GUAR SET.
i *ll1 27, 1994   96:07



BARBADOS
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary of Economic Evaluations
Type          Economic          Net Present      First Year
Road Section                             Kms    Work 1/   Rate of Return         Worth @ 12X         B/C
tX)           (1,000 of BDS$)         Z
1.   Highway 6 (Smith Corner-Kingsland)                   3.0    RS/AC              55               1,154             60
3.   Highway 2 (Warrens-Sturges)                          8.5    RS/AC              32                  722            47
5.   Canewood-Belle Gully Junction                        4.9    RC/DST             47               2,755             49
8.   Highway 6 (Belle Junction-Providence)                4.9    RS/AC              32                  760            36
10.  Cave Hill via Thorpes                                4.5    RSL/DST            60               1,273             60
IIA. Highway 2A (Warrens-Highway 1A)                      5.4    RC/AC              28               3,154             41
11B. Highway 2A (Highway lA-Mile/Quarter)                 9.2    RC/AC              17               1,457             21
12.  Well Gap (Lodge Hill to Cave Hill)                   2.1    RC/DST             24                  264            28
15.  Highway 4 (Salter Junction-Turnpike)                 3.7    RC/DST             14                   79            21
16A. Highway 5 (Haggatt Hall-Boarded Hall)                3.0    RS/AC              60               1,489             60
16B. Highway 5 (Boarded Hall-Six Roads)                   9.4    RS/AC              20                 377             34
17.  Parish Land to Belle Road                            5.9    RC/DST             19                  338            25
Average Overall Project ERR = 31%
1/ RS-Resurfacing, RC-Reconstruction, RSL-Reseal, RA-Realignment, AC-Asphaltic Concrete, and
DST-Double (Bituminous) Surface Treatment,
Vs



TABLE LO
HIGti,t hAlhlEANCME MAD KMH3IL1IATt4  PRSE!t
S.,amerp Akcc t I.e liar
(1 814S1ADIM 'ON)
Bae Costs +
sle Costs                          Forelin (schase   Price Cor,.   Total IMI.
...... .......... .... .............. ......  ................-   on  Base   coils  co(t.
1944     t1S1     1916      1937     191S    Total        t     AoAst       T(SS loo)    (USS  000
I. IhVESTMENT COSIS
..- ..... ....
a. MINrEAhrE aND RHABILITAllth 9000W
.... .... ... . ..................
I. ROAD SEC5ICh1
SECT-1 Shl'd  OPER VIA H1W  & -       LD        CN                                     7.04           -                  -        -    750.00   55.0       412.50         3t4.71        442.412
SECt-! CMEaD VIA OAtRELLS- EELLE POAD, o DElLE 'iJLLV  XNCTICN 14.9SAh                       - 1,910.41         -        .        -  1,910.41   55.Q   1,054.73         1-.43.e8      1-:00.37
SEC-8 asT  DAVIDS, P'N3AITE VAl h0  a0   FALLS :.0T734N TO FRiRODECE (4.1              910.00         -           Q      IO.00   55.0                     511.50          47.04          4 93.60
SECT-10 tA. HILL VIA 1hROfES 1OLCFS HILL (4.504                                       715.;0        -         -        -        -    715.00   55.0       391.25         M0.70         4:1.10
SECT-11   120A wlAHRLiS - sILEUOLwTER  iNvci                                                 - 2.857.00 5-737.00 2,a57.00         - 1 Jie51.00   $5,4   6,29.05         6.777.67      7794.12
SECT-12 LCOGE HILL VIA WELL GAP TO EAVt HILL 42,11,)                                   530.04         -         *        -        *      30.00   35.0     291.50          271.80        112.1.
SECT-IS HWY 4 - SALTERS JU1CrIe TO uO llE 11  131.7))                                        *        -         - 1,541.47        -  1,541.47   55.9      847.81          98e.39      1,134.35
SECT-i  W195 - *   66G11 HALL TO SIT lOAES 112.4111                                          -        -         * 17175.10 1.1,5.10  2,350.20   55.C  1i,292.bi         8v5"46.       10101.82
1EC1-t7 0Axh91EAEL RCAD VIA WAL0E0S, SI. GEOGE COWWC,
fA4114 LAND TO DILLE RAD 15.ii                                                            -                                        W  2,105.58  2,105.58   55.0   1151.O  1,4&.06  1,579.09
SECt-I  20!  .        oo!01NS  0 SILTOCS (8.'.th                                     1.550.0          -         -                 -  1,554.W0   55.0      352.50          795.07        914.14
1'.bwTot;I VOoD lftrCr,sS                                                                0,470,00 4,707.41 5,717.440, 573.57 3- 10.68 239133.11   55.0  11,108.51         14,114.24    10.;249.7
Nsica1l Ccr.tirstr"ceo                                                                 671.25   715.11   E00.55   91.o04   492.10  3.515.5    55.0   1,1040.2
Frice Coningencices                                                                    131.40   508.94  .195.1  1,791.43  1,459.46  5,070.85   52.2   2,1.4 c
0,o-Troa)l INtuIqIS CAATI44Ei1S                                                         5,279s.5 s9591.47 70792.80 8203.24 5,232.34 32,499.54   54.4  17,732.13           14Io0.24    36.049.70
Tej,s                                                                                  260.42   284.19   358.03   3t3.39   2f4.82  1,555.14    0.0          o.o                -        777.92
Foran,. Ecrhanoe                                                                      2.079.97 3,245.7t 4,231.43 4.415.50 1.979.77 17,732.61    0.0          0.00               *    a4M.12
2. EhIF9ET                                                                             2.213.90         -        -         -        -  2213.3.1   90.0   1,992.42        11211.4       1,134.91
fhOsicil Cgntinseoczes                                                                  110.69        -         -        -        -    110.69   90.0       99.12
Price Eol.tingsrczes                                                                     45,33        .         .                 -              80.8       36.4
S*Tlotil INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                         2,319.8         -                               2,19.92   89.9   2;121.;5         1;1210.00     1114.9
Foreign EchCnOsC                                                                      2172i.65 t                                     2,121.5    0.0          0.0o               -     1,044.33
S04.-lotal 9AI4E1N%KE AND 'TEABILITATION FFOGSAh                                            ,tt1.a0 4,787.41 s5717.00 5P573.57 1230.18 20047.4i   5s.0  1510o.93            15P251.73    17,434.49
Fliical C8ntingencies                                                                      781.94   715.11   800.55   933.04   492.10  1, 5,74   54.1  2.045.90
trace Coonginercuis                                                                        178.71   501.94 1,195.31 107931.3 1,459.    S,334.19   52.5   214t4.45
SuD-Total INCLUDING CC4T1iGEhcIES                                                           7;649;47 5;971147 7;792.94 9;2001.24 5,232;324 3409.38   5.0  89,941.28           15.25A.71    17,434.49
lxes                                                                                       260.42   214.19   351.03   393.39   206.82  3,555.14    4.0          0.00               -       7.17.2
Foreign Erctanse                                                                        S5,09.62 3t245.74 4W238.63 4,WM.50 2,871.77  19,18.1    0.0             0.00               -     9.930.64
P. H9SY4A SAFETY f'RtGSAh
....... ..............
I. SAFETO  IfKJEMEAI LDX48110NS
....... ........_._ _ _ _ ..
PAr 7/W0TH1[4j                                                                               -        -    74.00         -        -      74.04   55.0       40.70          41.70         04.26
MIDGE CAP- 401 I                                                                             -        -        -    40.440               40.00   55.0      22.00          215.60         29.4a
YEIWE   09 -  001- HWYI353.50                                                                                                            53.50   55.0      84.42           90.65       112o5
.9140 RD - H11                                                                               -    41.60        -         -              41.60   55.0       22.00           22.73         26.14
EARY0  LAhE * HY6 t-                                                                                       -         5.4           -     51.40   55.0      20.27           32.8a         37.e3
0SRRISO  ROAD - HASTI3 a ROAD 1w0  71                                                       -                  -           -   125.40    125.40   55.0    48.97           86.94        804.00
01E.06ES TERTACE -59314K09 5(000) 090M75                                                112.21   224.40         --    130.61   55.0                        195.14          180.34       207.10
PRES. 1E)840DY QFNE - WE131URY R04D                                                    1                             49.14               49.54   555.0      27.25          33.70         36.44
sr *E1E01    lOW. - 93r 4 CW  PASR 14LE1 RD                                                  -        -             515.47        -    515.47   55.0       283.51         329.33        37?.2o
Sub-Fotl SAFETY IF99I0W     T LtC9 41410IS                                                 1(2,21   266.00   227.50   454.41   125.40  1,147.52   55.8        761.14         944.39        970.8'
Physical Co.tinlefc.is                                                                   16.93    31.40   34.12    99.46    19.91    208.13   55.0         114.47              -
Price Cctintencies                                                                       3.33   21.32    47.39   219.17    55.79    346.10   52.7         182.40
SIb-Total INCLUDING CONTIKEKIES                                                            132.37   334.22   309.01   968.04   244.39  1,941.65   54.6   1,000.30            844.19        970.02
Taxis                                                                                    7.94    39.43    14.83    55.47    79.0    307.27    0.0           2.1                 -        53,61
Frgeign Exchange                                                                         72.21   188.60   168.09   528.62   180.09  16,60.09    0.0          0.00               -       530.04
2, EXUIFAENT                                                                                         7 7.00        -        -         *     73.00   5.0        70.20          42.13         44.24
FhP siril Contingencies                                                                            3.90         -        -        -       3.90   90.0        3.51               -
Price Continercies                                                                           -     6.58         -        -         -      6.5    85.6        5.63
Sub-TotalI INCLUDING COAT[KfIEOCIES                                                             -    33.08         -9 -               -     0          7       70.16           42.81        A6,76



I      L.E-  I6                                                                                                       4
E OY hOAD - HASTINGS Put ,91 7)                                                            -        -         -        -   125.4J    11w    nv           o.rr           0.0r lw.w
btLC90S TERtOCE - SFRlffER SCHDOL CG4 HN   5                                          112.21   224.40         -        -        -    331.61   55.2      185.14         190.14       207.16
PIES. 0E1ED  DR14E - 61STI1Y 9AY D                                                         *                  -    49.54              49.54   55.0       77.2'          31.70         34.46
ST GEORGES 5C04OL - HWo 4 ON 3ASN Y&LLTA 0                                                 -        -         -  515.47         -   515.47   55.0       213.51         329.83       37.97.0
Sub-Total SAFETY tMF9%EME%1 LOCATION                                                     112.21   266.00   227.50   656.41   125.40  1;317.52   55.0       763.14         844.19       970. 2
0hvsical Ccriog3erei                                                                   16.0!    30.90    34.12      1.46 4  1.11    209.13   55.0       114.47                            -
Price Ccntinleorcies                                                                    3.33    21.32    47.39   211.17    55.79    344.00   52.7       192.48
S's-Total IRLUDI4 CtOTINWEYCIES                                                          932.37   334.22   30;.01   964.04   200.00  ;;41.;5   ;4.6   1,;;0.09            844.99        970.S2
Ta.es                                                                                   7.94    19.43    14.93    55.47      9.60    107.27    0.0       0.:               -        53.63
Foreign Exchange                                                                       72.21   191.10   160.09   528.62   110.09  19040.09    0.0         0.00              -        30.04
2. EXIFPAEmY                                                                                  -    79.00         -        -        -     700   90.0         70.20          42.13        44.24
Thivasrl Contingencies                                                                           3-90                                  3.90   90.0        3.51              -
Price Continsrencies                                                                       -    6.58          -        -        -      6.58   85.6        5.63
Sub-Total INCLUD1ItG G4CNTIN6ENIES                                                            -    0.l48         -             -         83.41   a9.7       79.34          42.13         46.24
Foreian &eclrua                                                                            -    79.34             -        -          79.34    0.0        0.00                       39.67
Sub-Total NlGHiAY SAFETI FtP0Y                                                              112.21   344.00   227.50   65.41   125.40  9,465.52   56.9        833.34         886.33      1.015.90
Physical Contirreecles                                                                    14.93    41.60    34.12      0.46    98.91    212.03   55.6    197.99                -             -
Price Continksecies                                                                        3.33    34.90    47.39   211.17    55.79    352.58   53.4       181.12
_ ...  ...    ..  .....        ... ..  .....     .. ...      ....     .......  ------     .......
Sub-Total I8LUDI5 G CONTINCNtlES                                                            332.37   422.70   309.01   96.04   200.40  29030.92   56.9   1,119.43            SW4.33      1.015,0O
Taxes                                                                                      7.94    19.43    14.83    55.47      9.60    107.27    0.0        0.00              -        53.63
Forealn Exthange                                                                          72.21   260.44   168.00   52a.62   190.01  1939.43    0.0          0.00              -       569.72
C. IYSTITUTION WILDtIG
1 INSIITUITION STRENSTIENING P1466S05
Tm FLAMING L;NI                                                                           -    11.58    11.08    119.1     11.88     47.52   900.       38.02          29.24         30.70
MTV FINtACIAL  6K0E1ENT0                                                               29.70    59.40    29.70         -        -    918.90   SO.O       95.04          64.01         68.05
EUIFNt1 W&U(ENT.                                                                       17.2    35.64    35.64    35.64    17.92    142.5   S0.0        114.05          94.45        68,68
SOILS I MYTERIALS LAB                                                                  17.92         3.6  33.6     36       17.82    942.56    0.0    114.05           14.45        68.68
TWFIC DEPAFIIENT                                                                       17.82    35.64    35.64    35.64    17.12    142.56   80.0       114.05          94.45        88.68
MITEMAKE AKAAMNT                                                                      17.82    35.64    35.64    35.64    17.82    942,56   90.0       114.05          I4.45         H8.68
Sub-total INSTITUTIO9  ST9E60TAENINS PROGRAMS                                            100.98   213-94   184.14   154.44    03.16    736.56   80.0    509.25            431.96        453.45
Phmsical Continrgcies                                                                   5.05    10.69      9.21     7.72     4.16     36.03   80.8       29.46
Price CcntSrsci.es                                                                      2.29    1.90   313.70    44.92    33.82    133.52   77.7        103.75
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONIINGENtlES                                                        108.31   243.43   227.04   206.99   121.14   906.90   79.7    722.46             411.94        453.4'
Foram.. Exclranar                                                                      96.31   193.35   990.68   165.18    16.95    722.46    0.0         0.00               -       361.23
2. EOUIFhENT                                                                             189.94         -        -        -        -    189.94   90.0      170.05          96.77       1OT.61
FhPrical Contingencies                                                                   .49        -         -        -        -        .49   90.0       8.54              -
Price Cortanieneies                                                                     3.89        -         -        -        -      3.89   8D.8        3.14
Sub-Total INCLU310S CONTINGENCIES                                                        203.22         -        -        -        -    201.22   99.8      112.54          96.77        101.61
Foresin E chnsge                                                                      182.54         -        -        -        -    992.54    0.0        0.00               -        91.27
_--     --  -----   ----     -,-   -   -- -   ---- ------- -         - -----        .. .. .... ...
S-Tolatl INSTITUTIOt I UILDINE                                                              290.02   213.94   194.14   154.44    03.16    926.40   82.0       764.10         528.63        553.06
Phlsical Contirgecies                                                                     14.54    10.69      9.21     7.72     4.16      46.32   92.0      38.01
Price Cootindectis                                                                         6.17    98.90    33.70    44.82    33.82    137.40   77.8       104.99               -
S*k-tcll INtLUDIY  CONTIGIENCIES                                                            311.52   243.43   227.04   206.98   121.14 1;110.12   91.5        904.99         521.63        555.06
Foreign Exchar.e                                                                         268.84   193.35   180.68   965.98    96.95    904.99    0.0         0.00                       4 52.50
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                      7;091S3 5,125.25 6,948.64 6,384.42 3,409.24 29l439.38   58.7  ;;;;;4.37          16,673.68    19,004.12
FhyIical Continocio                                                                         893.31   769.60   903.68   942.22   595.07  39444.09   5.3   2P221.89                  -
Frice Cotin .encies                                                                          98.23   562.74 1,276.39 2,049.62 1,549.19  5.626.16   53.1   2,0 9.45
TatIl INCLUDIKO CONIIN5EKIES                                                                 9.093.37 6657.60 98321.919 376.26 5,553.4? 3i 8 s.42   57.6  21l905.71         I6.73.68    19.004.01
._.: .. 9s           . ... *_  3      --  =ZZ-Z       -    .. == ...=.........           s-  
Tiues                                                                                       268.36   303.62   35.9u4  449.86   276.42  1*663,11    0.0          0.00              -           .56
Freigsr E ncharso                                                                          534J,68 3,699.55 45687.39 5I92.29 3.086.79 29M.05,71    0.0          0.00              o- 10,52.85r
Total PASELINE COS!S                                                                          7,091.93 5;325.25 6uI48.64 6,384.42 3409.24 21.439,38   58.7  A1694-.37          16,673.68    19004.91
Physical Continiercizes                                                                      893.31   769.68   903.08   942.22   595.07  3944,09   566.3   2,221..         r       e-
Price Contingenoies                                                                          161.23   562.74 1,276.39 2049.62 1,549.18  5U26.16   53.1   2,9M.45
...... .. .... ..  .. . .    .... ...... _..  _- - ------                      --.  ... -  -----   ---- ----
Total PIGICT COSTS                                                                            9,093.37 6.657.60 89328.91 9,376.26 5.553.49 38009.62   57.6  219905.71         16,673.68    19004.91
:                    :=Z::                      :::: :::          : .-  0- =  ,   ..............=    ............
TaAes                                                                                        268.36   303.62   365.96   449.96   276.42  163.11    0.0           8.00               -       931.56
Foretin Excthrsv                                                                           43349.68 3,69.55 4,587.39  1,182.29 3,006.79 21905.71    0.0          0.00               -    1095285
April   27..............9994. ...... ...... ...  ..... .... 14199... ..                 ..........   ...._   ...............-----------...........,,,_._,..............
Atral 27. ISS4 16:11



-31-                                 TABLE 11
BARBADOS
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year            4-Yr            Cumulative
& End of Quarter            US$M              4-Yr(%)
FY 85
Sept. 30, '84                -
Dec.  31, '84               0.60                 5
Mar.  31, '85               1.21                11
June  30, '85               1.82                17
FY 86
Sept. 30, '85               2.43                22
Dec.  31, '85               3.04                28
Mar.  31, '86               3.65                33
June  30, '86               4.26                39
FY 87
Sept. 30, '86               4.89                44
Dec.  31, '86               5.50                 50
Mar.  31, '87               6.18                 56
June  30, '87               6.87                 62
FY 88
Sept. 30, '87               7.57                69
Dec.  31, '87               8.25                 75
Mar.  31, '88               8.94                 81
June  30, '88               9.62                 87
FY 89
Sept. 30, '88              10.31                 94
Dec.  31, '88              11.00                100
March 1984



FORM NO. 144
15-8f2                                                  BARBADOS
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Monitoring System Input Data
FILE NAME; Loan No.         I I  I  I  I  I  7  1
IField|
IName I
* I *                                                                                                                          I - li
(2  (Category                                               _F1
3  |ldeitiftier /1                   New  |      Update  |  |                                                          I  I  I  I
|7  IRepublic/Province/Regional Subgroup                                                                         |||||T 
8  Iltem D Des./Road Sect./Sect Des.|                                     J                           (   (((( (|J|        (     Jt 
I 9  |Road EN No./Road No./Route No./Km to Km                                                                    I  I  I  I  I I |
IO  ILength of Section in Km                                                                                        ITT1
I 11  |Estimated Base Cost in Local Currency                                         I  I  I   I  I   I  I  1       1  1  1  1 I   I
112  lPhysical Contingencies Factor                                                                                 1    1JT I -1
|13  (Escalation Factor
14  |Foreign Exchange Rate in Local Currency per US Dollar
15  |X Bank Disbursement
(16  (Rate of Return
|17  |Expected Completion Date (DD/HXfMYY)                                                                I          1          I
./ Arbitrary or sequential number unique to one project item.



-33-
ANNEX 1
Pagel of 2
BARBADOS
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Highway Safety Program
Background
1.        The MTW organization does not now provide for the collection and
analysis of highway accident data. However, the highway design department
does some basic work in this field.
2.        MTW has identified a number of hazardous areas, mainly
intersections with low design standards and poor sight distance, and sections
where severe conflict occurs between pedestrians and vehicles.
Objectives
3.        The highway safety program is oriented toward increasing the
capacity and safety of the existing network of arterials at hazardous
locations.
Scope
4.        The two most dangerous situations on the existing network, where
maximum conflict occurs, involve intersections and heavy pedestrian traffic.
The highway safety program is focused on relieving the hazardous conditions
currently prevailing.
Intersections
5.        Most of the network intersections have very low design standards.
Intersecting roads vary between 5 and 6 meters, and no widening of the throat
is provided to assist drivers in the positioning of the vehicles in the
proper lanes. Curb return radius is normally less than the minimum necessary
to complete the turning movement in a safe and orderly manner in an
automobile. Three radius truck turns are not used, and, as a result, trucks
have great difficulty with the turning maneuver. Pavement widths are not
sufficient to provide for channelization or turning pockets with storage lane
capacity. Sight distance is very limited, either because of dense growth
along the pavement edges or abutting structures and walls. Traffic is
sufficiently heavy during most periods of the day to cause gap acceptance
problems with the traffic platoons, and limited sight distance exacerbates
the situation.
6.        The intersections inclLded in this program were selected based on
the hazardous operating condition: observed in the field. The proposed
improvements would resolve the operational difficulties caused by restrictive
turning movements and alleviate the hazardous conditions caused by limited
sight distance.



-34-
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
Pedestrian Sidewalks
7.        Most of the network arterials have no shoulders, and the edge of
pavement abuts upon some type of physical barrier, which forces pedestrians
to share the traveled way of the road with vehicles. The resulting conflicts
are extremely dangerous and have a pronounced effect on the operation of the
system.
8.        The two sidewalk projects selected for the highway safety program
have high volumes of pedestrian traffic generated several times daily from
schools situated on the arterials. The school children share the road with
vehicles, and traffic, as a result, is extremely congested. The proposed
improvements would effectively separate the pedestrian and the vehicle
traffic flows.
Methodology
9.        The selection of components for the highway safetv program was
based on a hazardous roadway feature inventory method 1/ which compares
existing features with safety and design standards.
10.       This particular methodology was chosen because MTW does not have
traffic engineers on its staff to perform analysis and because accident and
traffic data are not available in sufficient detail to produce turning
movement diagrams or collision diagrams for specific intersections.
11.       This project proposes the creation of a traffic department
(Annex 2) in MTW, which would begin, as soon as possible, to provide data,
analysis and studies for traffic and safety.
12.       The Traffic Department would conduct 'after' studies on each of the
highway safety program components within six months after completion of the
improvements.
1/ Highway Safety Improvement Program (HSIP), US DOT Publication
FHWA-TS-81-218.
March 1984



-35-
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 15
BARBADOS
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJEC'
Institution-Strengthening Programs
A. Program for the Setting up of an Integrated Accounting and
Financial Data System and an Internal Audit Department
Background
1.        The accounting and budget functions are governed by the following:
(i) the Constitution of Barbados, Chapter IX, Finance Act 1966; (ii)
Financial Administration and Audit Act 1964; (iii) the Financial Rules 1971;
and (iv) the Financial (Supplies) Rules 1971.
2.        The Accounting Department of MTW has four sections: the Vote Book
Payments Section, the Payroll Section, the Procurement Section and the
Internal Audit Section. Accounting and budget records are designed to meet
the requirements of the legislation referred to in the preceding paragraph.
For each of the sections mentioned, there is a ledger which is posted
ma-tually using a single-entry system. Furthermore, existing systems are not
designed to keep accounting records and provide financial data for management
purposes.
Objectives
3.        The purpose of this program is to provide MTW with an appropriate
financial management system which includes an integrated account system, with
special emphasis on the general accounting, budget, project and road
maintenance cost accounting, and financial data systems.
4.        The program is intended to assist in the design and implementation
of these systems. The program would need to refer to the recent study on
institutional strengthening prepared by Booz-Allen and Hamilton, Inc. and
financed by IDB.
Scope
5.        The program would be:
(a) to study the existing systems and analyze the recommendations in
the areas of accounting, finance and computerization, included in
the institutional strengthening study mentioned in paragraph 4
preceding, so that the consultants and MTW may have a clear
understanding of what is required for the setting up of an
integrated accounting system (funds, budget, assets and costs);
(b) to improve the existing budget accounting system;



-36-
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 15
(c)  to design general accounting, and project and road maintenance cost
accounting systems;
(d)  to prepare manuals of procedures and their respective sets of
accounts for the systems referred to in (b) and (c);
(e)  to design a financial data reporting system as the product of the
systems referred to in (b) and tc);
(f)  to recommend such organizational changes as are required for the
proper functioning of the systems;
(g)  to prepare an internal audit manual; and
(h)  to determine the training needs in the areas of accounting,
finance, auditing and computerization, and to design a training
program to meet the needs of the design and implementation stages
of the various systems referred to in (b),(c),(e) and (g)
preceding.
Executive Committee - Working Group
6.        MTW is to set up an Executive Committee with representatives of the
various units of the Ministry. The purpose of the committee would be to
determine the aims and goals of the program and to monitor the design and
implementation stages. The Executive Committee would appoint a group of
staff members who would act as a working group, responsible for designing and
implementing the systems.   Both the Executive Committee and the working
group would participate actively in the various stages of development of the
systems.
Timing
7.        The design of the general accounting, project and road maintenance
cost accounting, financial data and internal audit systems is expected to be
completed by the end of October 1984.
8.        The systems listed in paragraph 5 are to be set up during the
following 18 months, i.e., they should be in operation not later than March
31, 1986. The accounting and accounting data systems pertaining to the
project financed by the Bank would need to be designed and ready for
implementation prior to the first disbursement for MTW force account
construction.
Training and Technical Assistance
9.        A program of training and technical assistance would be necessary
for the implementation of the above-mentioned program. The training program
has to be oriented toward a combination of theoretical and practical action
closely related to the design and implementation of the systems mentioned in
5(b),(e) and (g).



-37-
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 15
10.       The manpower for the training and technical assistance is estimated
at 12 man-months of local consultants.
B. Program for Strengthening of the Policy and Planning Office
Background
11.       MTW is one of the largest Ministries; however, unlike other
Ministries in Barbados, it does not have a permanent planning staff. The
existing Policy and Planning Office is manned by the Deputy Permanent
Secretary, who has wide administrative responsibilities in the daily
operations of MTW.
Objectives
12.       The objectives of strengthening the Policy and Planning Office
are to:
(a) improve planning coordination within MTW and with other ministries;
(b) improve integration between investment planning and the budgetary
process;
(c) develop in-house capabilities in socio-economic analysis of
investment proposals; and
(d) provide a mechanism for undertaking planning on a continual basis.
Scope of Work
13.       The Policy and Planning Office is responsible for Ministry-wide
planning. Major tasks which the office would undertake are to:
(a) prepare and update a long-term transportation sector strategy which
would cover major goals, issues and policies of MTW;
(b) formulate and evaluate a short-term development plan and proposal
which would provide an input into the annual budgeting process;
(c) undertake an annual review of the work performed by MTW in order to
evaluate actual results against budget objectives; and
(d) undertake ad hoc analysis on planning and policy issues such as
road user costs, road user taxation, and vehicle weight and size
control.
14.       As in the past, major feasibility studies would be contracted to
consultants. The Policy and Planning Office, however, would act as MTW's
coordinator/counterpart for such studies.



-38-
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 15
Organization
15.       Additional planning staff would be integrated into the Policy and
Planning Office, headed by the Deputy Permanent Secretary. Specifically, it
is proposed that two additional staff be added:
(a) A Senior Planning Officer with responsibilities for planning
analysis and formulation, budgeting (as shared with the Senior
Finance Officer), and coordination with other Ministries and
Agencies.
(b) A Planning Officer with responsibilities for plan development,
demographic and economic analysis, and plan progress monitoring.
16.       In addition, the secretarial/suipport staff of the Policy and
Planning Office would be increased.
Training and Technical Assistance
17.       It is expected that the recruits would need training in the areas
of project formulation, economic analysis and transportation planning. The
following courses/seminars are proposed for both recruits:
(a) Project Formulation and Evaluation Course by CDB, which is a
ten-week program held in Bridgetown; and
(b) Transportation Planning Seminar by the Economic Development
Institute (EDI), whic:h is a ten-week program held in Washington.
18.       In addition, should a particular planning or training need
develop, a provision is made in the proposed project for two staff-months of
Consultant/Specialists' time.
Implementation
19.       Implementation would be as follows:
(a) the proposed staff are expected to be in position prior to April
1985;
(b) the courses/seminars should be taken during the first two years of
service, while the recruits are gaining actual work experience; and
(c) the Technical Assistance is budgeted during the last three years of
the project.
Costs and Financing
20.       Concerning the program costs and financing:
(a) MTW is now in the process of obtaining approval for the additional
staff, and they will be paid under the Administrative Budget;



-39-
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 15
(b) the courses/seminars are paid by the sponsoring agencies, CDB and
EDI; and
(c)  an allocation of US$24,000 is made for the Technical Assistance,
which would include local transport, facilities and support
services.
C. Establishment of a Traffic Department
Existing Organization
21.       Traffic management functions are currently divided among the
following units:
Agency                                  Unit
MTW                       Traffic Section, Maintenance Department
MTW                       Maintenance Districts
MTW                       Road Engineer, Planning Division
MTW                       Government Electrical Engineer
MFP                       Town and Country Planning
Royal Barbados Police    District Stations
22.       This division of the traffic management function produces negative
results in planning, funding, implementation and accountability. None of
these agencies have strong technical capabilities in traffic management and
engineering, and areas of responsibility are not defined. Barbados does not
have a comprehensive traffic management plan.
Objectives
23.       Based on recommendations in the Booz-Allen and Hamilton Report, a
Traffic Department would be created as a component of the proposed
Engineering Services Division of MTW. The Traffic Department would generally
be responsible for improving vehicle and pedestrian traffic flows and safety.
Scope
24.       The Traffic Department would be expected to function primarily in
four major sections of traffic engineering as follows:
(a) Studies of Traffic Characteristics
(b) Traffic Operations
(c) Transportation Planning
(d) Geometric Design
Studies of Traffic Characteristics
25.       Traffic studies must be conducted to obtain data on transportation
and traffic trends for the island, and on traffic conditions at specific
locations. Studies would cover the following fields:



-40-
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 15
(a)  Vehicular and human factors
(b)  Traffic volumes, speeds, delay
(c)  Traffic stream flow and capacity of streets and intersections
(d)  Travel patterns, trip generation factors, origins and destinations
(e)  Parking and terminal factors
(f)  Mass transit systems
(g)  Accidents
Traffic Operations
26.       The operation of traffic flows on the system requires the
following:
(a) Regulations
(i) laws and ordinances; and
(ii) control of speed, intersections, parking, turning, one-way
flow, etc., achieved by application of control devices
backed by appropriate legislation;
Cb) Control Devices
(i) signs, used for control of speeds, intersections, parking,
one-way streets, etc.;
(ii) signals, used mainly for intersection control;
(iii) pavement markings, used to guide vehicle placement on
streets, and to supplement signs or signals; and
Civ) channelization, used to guide and control vehicles in
complex intersections.
(c) Warrants
(i) control measures must be based on engineering facts, and
warrants must be applied for many control situations to
promote uniformity of application.
Traffic Planning Functions
27.       Systematic development of the transport system requires the
following planning functions:
(a)  Comprehensive transportation studies
(b)  Long-range plans for highway network
(c)  Long-range plans for mass transit systems
(d)  Long-range plans for off-street parking and terminals
(e)  Research into the factors underlying the island transportation
systems and the behavior of the users



-41-
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 15
Geometric Design Function
28.       Traffic eagineering analysis should be the basis for the
development of the geometric design function, as follows:
(a) geometric features of alignment, grade, cross section, access
control, intersections and interchanges of new facilities;
(b)  redesign of existing facilities to increase capacity and safety;
(c)  design of off-street parking and terminals;
(d)  establishment of design standards for subdivisions, driveways and
access control; and
(e)  design of pedestrian facilities.
Personnel
29.       The key position in the Traffic Department would be an engineer to
head the department. In April 1984, MTW appointed an engineer, and work in
the department is already started. Two traffic technicians would be needed
to assist the engineer in the operation of the department.
Technical Assistance/Training
30.       Consultants should be used to assist the engineer in the
development of the Department's capability to perform the functions given in
paragraph 24. The engineer and technicians should receive training in those
areas not covered by their experience.
31.       Technical assistance/training inputs from consultants have been
estimated at six man-months used intermittently over the four-year project
life.
D. Program for Maintenance Management System
Existing Organization
32.       The MTW maintenance department has a professional engineer in
charge of the control office, who manages seven districts run by
Superintendents. The department maintains the highway network and public
buildings in Barbados.
33.       Management is very thin and needs technical assistance and training
in maintenance methods and procedures, planning, and productivity standards.
The low morale of the labor forces is affecting work habits, production
levels and work quality. Improving these conditions by implementing a
Maintenance Management System (MMS) would necessitate the complete backing
and support of MTW.



-42-
ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 15
Objectives
34.       The objectives of an MMS are to increase productivity, establish
uniform ways of performing work and improve the quality of road maintenance.
These objectives are accomplished by planning, directing, controlling and
monitoring work.
Scope
35.       Several MMS elements are considered basic to the effective job of
managing maintenance. These key elements include:
(a) Road inventory
(b) Activity definitions and accompltshment units
(c) Work program
(d) Maintenance performance standards
(e) Scheduling
(f) Reporting systems
(g) Evaluation and control
(h)  Performance budget
36.       The MMS designed and implemented for MTW must, as a minimum,
include these elements.
Road Inventory
37.       The road inventory is a physical features inventory and a condition
survey which determines location, condition and physical characteristics in
several categories. The road inventory elements are as follows:
(a) reference data system of control
(b) rating segments
(c) scoring procedure standards
(d) road categories:
(i) pavement
(ii) shoulder
(iii) slope protection
(iv) guard rail
(v) pavement markings
(vi) highway signs
(vii) culverts
(viii) special features data (general)
(ix) miscellaneous
Activity Definitions and Accomplishment Units
38.       A method for measuring work quantities for the purpose of planning
work and identifying accomplishment includes the following elements:
(a) Categories of work
(b) Work type
(c) Work measurement units
(d) Level of service - qua'lity and quantity standards



-43-
ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 15
Work Program
39.       The annual work program includes the following:
(a)  Work program computation:
(i)  Activity description
(ii) Work unit measurement
(iii)  Quantity standard
(iv) Inventory units
(v)  Work program in work units
Maintenance Performance Standards
40.       Performance standards used to determine productivity include the
following:
Ca) Definition of productivity standards
(b) Performance standard format
Cc) Activity description
(d) Work unit
(e) Productivity
ff) Activity resources
(g) Procedures
Scheduling
41.       Scheduling is the orderly process of implementing the annual work
plan and includes the following:
(a) Contract scheduling (annual)
Cb) Contract scheduling (monthly)
(c) Monthly work documentation
(d) Daily work needs report
(e) Crew day cards
(f) Scheduling for MTW crews
Reporting Systems
42.       Reporting and feedback of data to the MMS are the basis for
performance evaluation and include the following:
(a) Daily work activity report:
(i) work activity
(ii) work location
(iii)  hours worked by person/activity
(iv) amount of work done
(v)  unit of measure



-44-
ANNEX 2
Page 10 Df 15
Evaluation and Control
43.       The MMS is a work-oriented system.  Evaluation and control of the
work are essential to MMS operation and include the following:
(a) Work evaluation reports
(b) Work program progress
(c) Control work
Performance Budget
44.       The performance budget defines specifically the kinds and amounts
of work to be accomplished with the maintenance funds and includes the
following:
(a)  Resource requirements
(b)  Financial requirements
(c)  Labor costs
(d)  Equipment costs
(e)  Material costs
Personnel
45.       A special unit within the MTW maintenance department would be
needed to implement the MMS. This unit needs the following personnel:
(a)  Senior Technician
(b)  System Analysts (2)
(c)  Data processing support personnel
46.       MTW has agreed to an initial staffing plan and has already
appointed the senior technician.
47.       To implement the MMS successfully, an incentive system would need
to be devised which would reward performing personnel.
Tecnnical Assistance/Training
48.       Consultants would be used to assist the MMS engineer in the
development of the system. The US Department of Transportation (DOT) has
offered its assistance in implementing an MMS already developed and in
operation in some developing countries, provided the Government of Barbados
so requests.
49.       Technical assistance/training inputs from consultants have been
estimated at six man-months used intermittently over the four-year project
life.



-45-
ANNEX 2
Page 11 of 15
E. Program for Equipment Management
Existing Organization
50.       MTW has one central facility, the Bridgetown shop, which repairs
and maintains construction and maintenance equipment for MTW and other
ministries.
51.       Much of the construction and maintenance equipment observed is old
and in need of repair or replacement. Replacement parts are not available
for some of the older pieces, and many have been cannibalized over the years
to keep others working.
52.       The parts stock room is in a state of disarray and needs
reorganization. The operational procedures for ordering, storing and
distribution of parts and tools to the mechanics are not effective and affect
shop discipline adversely.
53.       The workshop is poorly equipped, and many items essential to
efficient operation need repair or replacement.
54.       Adequate staffing has not been provided to manage and operate the
workshop facility.
Objectives
55.        Based on recommendations in the Booz-Allen and Hamilton Report,
MTW would develop an Equipment Manegement System (EMS) with the capacity to
operate the Bridgetown shop adequately and to maintain the MTW and other
ministries' equipment.
Scope
56.      The EMS would establish procedures, criteria, standards and
methodologies for the maintenance and utilization of construction and
maintenance equipment; the acquisition, assignment and disposal of equipment;
a parts inventory system and shop facilities; determination of equipment
rental rates; a comprehensive cost accounting system; and the development of
basic equipment user rates and utilization policies.
Equipment Utilization and Repair
57.       The EMS would detail the following procedures:
(a) Equipment inventory
(i) type and age
(ii) location
(iii) condition



-46-
ANNEX 2
Page 12 of 15
(b) Equipment operation
(i) responsibility of operator
(ii) training
(c) Equipment utilization
(i) equipment user rates
(ii) project and job inventory
(iii) overhead costs
(d) Equipment repair
(i) servicing and preventive maintenance (PM) Inspection
(ii) PM program and checklists
(iii) PM audit procedures
(iv) repair priorities
Equipment Acquisition: Assignment and Disposal
58.       The EMS would detail the following procedures:
(a)  Equipment acquisition
(i) equipment fleet size
(ii) equipment requests and procurement
(iii) equipment inventory and parts information
(b) Equipment assignment
(i) user requests
(ii) perpetual inventory
(iii) equipment status changes
(iv) control of work location and equipment operators
(c) Equipment disposal
(i) disposal inventory
(ii) approving authority
(iii) negotiated and bid sales
(iv) salvaging
(v) trade-in
Parts Inventory and Shop Facilities
59.       The EMS would detail the following procedures:
(a) Parts inventory
(i) inventory control
(ii) stock accounts
(iii) inventory cost
(iv) emergency purchases



-47-
ANNEX 2
Page 13 of 15
(v) overhead charges
(vi) fuel and lubricant inventory
(vii) surplus and obsolete parts disposal
(viii) parts flow
(b) Shop facilities
(i) location of subordinate facilities
(ii) shop size and physical layout
(iii)  minimum shop equipment requirements
Equipment Rental
60.       The EMS would detail the following:
(a)  Rental rates of fully-operated equipment from contract sources by
MTW.
(b)  Rental rates of fully-operated equipment from MTW to other
Government cost centers.
EMS Cost Accounting System
61.       The EMS would develop the following:
(a) Equipment cost accounting
(i) equipment identification system
(ii) equipment income and expense data
(iii) source documents of direct equipment costs
(iv) overhead costs
(b) Parts and supplies cost accounting
(c) Cost accounting by project or job number.
Equipment User Rates and Utilization Policies
62.       The EMS would develop the following standards:
(a) Analysis of EMS input data to establish equipment user rates
(b) Analysis of EMS input data to establish utilization policies
Personnel
63.       The key position to be filled is that of an equipment and vehicle
manager.  MTW has recently (April 1984) created this position and has
appointed the manager. In addition, a budget officer/accountant with
computer systems experience is required to supervise the data bank input for
EMS.



-48-
ANNEX 2
Page 14 of 15
64.       In order to make the implementation of the EMS successful, an
incentive system would need to be devised to reward performing personnel.
Technical Assistance/Training
65.       Consultants should be used to assist the engineer in the
development of an EMS for Barbados, of sufficient scope to provide the
functions given in paragraph 56. DOT has also offered to assist MTW, as a
part of its "Highway Engineering Assistance and Related Services to
Developing Countries," to Implement the DOT-prepared EMS.
66.       Training for mechanics, shop personnel and operators would be
Included in the EMS.
67.       Technical Assistance/Training inputs from consultants have been
estimated at six man-months used intermittently over the four-year project
life.
F. Program for Establishing a Materials and Soils Laboratory
Existing Organization
68.       MTW operates an asphalt plant staffed by a plant manager and two
technicians, all of whom are skilled in the required materials test
procedures. The plant manager does not have the authority to reject
asphalt or aggregates that do not meet existing standards.
69.       No soils testing laboratory is available on the island, and samples
for testing must be shipped to another country. This results in delays,
additional costs and the loss of quality control for MTW.
Objective
70.       Provide a testing facility that would establish standards and
certify the quality of the materials used for maintenance, rehabilitation and
construction.
Scope
71.       Equip a soils and materials testing laboratory, establish test
standards and criteria, train staff, provide authority and procedures for the
lab to reject materials that do not meet the MTW standards and design
criteria, and provide a field testing service for MTW construction
inspectors.



-49-
ANNEX 2
Page 15 of 15
Personnel
72.       The laboratory would be run by an engineer and staffed by
approximately six laboratory technicians. Recently MTW appointed an engineer
to head the laboratory.
Technical Assistance/Training
73.       Consultants would be used to assist the engineer in the equipping,
operation and development of standards for the laboratory. The engineer and
lab technicians should receive training in performing and analyzing the
tests.
74.       Technical assistance/training inputs from consultants have been
estimated at six man-months used intermittently over the four-year project
life.
April 1984



-50-
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
BARBADOS
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATInN PROJECT
Project Monitoring
1.        In order for the Bank and the Government to monitor progress on the
impl,,mentation of the project and to ensure that the project objectives are
being satisfied, MTW would participate in a project monitoring program
consisting of quarterly reporting and a data base information system.
Quarterly Report
2.        MTW would prepare a quarterly report indicating, by program and
subprojects, the status of: (a) plan preparation, (b) economic evaluation,
(c) bid award, (d) construction, (e) procturement, (f) technical
assistance/training, and (g) withdrawals. The report should focus on problem
areas where implementation is not progressing as scheduled.
3.        To monitor progress on the project objectives, MTW would supplement
the quarterly reports for September and March of each year in accordance with
the following:
(i)  by September of each year:
- proposed update of the Highway Investment Program;
- proposed recurrent and investment budgets for upcoming year;
- status of the institution-strengthening program;
(ii)  by March of each year:
- actual maintenance expenditures of previous year;
- maintenance budgets for ongoing year;
- update of the Highway Investment Program;
- status of road user charges, fuel prices and transport levy.
4.        In addition, MTW would prepare any other reports that the Bank
might reasonably request.
Project Monitoring System Input Data
5.        The project monitoring system is designed to supplement the
quarterly reports and to provide up-to-date project information for the
various reporting levels in the Government and the Bank. The Project
Monitoring System can run on a micro-computer using existing data base
management programs such as Lotus 1.2.3.



-51-
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
6.        The input data forms have been designed to reflect project stages
of implementation and include data which are generated by both the Bank and
the Borrower. The input data forms would accept data ior civil works,
procurement and technical assistance/training. The sample input form for the
appraisal report is given in Table 12.
7.        The Borrower would include a properly completed input form with any
project related correspondence, bid documents, analysis or studies,
procurement matters, technical assistance/training items and withdrawal
applications in order that the Bank can maintain a current data base.
8.        The computerized monitoring system would first be kept in the
Bank. After the Borrower gains familiarity with the system, it is expected
that the system would be set up in Barbados.
April 1984



-52-
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 4
BARBADOS
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
1.        A summary of the methodology used to evaluate the road
improvements, a brief evaluation of the results and a sensitivity analysis
are provided below. Further detailed information on each road section can be
obtained from the computerized evaluation sheet in the project file
(Annex 5).
Methodology
2.        For each road section, benefits were measured in terms of user cost
savings, which is the difference between vehicle operating costs plus driver
and passenger (automobile only) time savings with and without the road
improvement.   The nature of the road investments did not warrant the use of
a sophisticated model, and the methodology used in the analysis can be
represented by the following formula:
Savings                               Traffic
Vehicle Road      Vehicle Road        Average Annual            Traffic
User Costs     -  User Costs          Daily Traffic  x 365  x  Growth
Existing Poad     Improved Road          (AADT)         Days    Rate
Costs
Construction    Road Maintenance    Road Maintenance
-  Costs         + Costs              - Costs              - Net
Improved Road   Improved Road        Existing Road        Benefit
3.        Principal elements and assunptions used in the evaluations were:
(a) User Costs and Savings: User costs for various road conditions were
obtained from the recent feasibility study of the Industrial Access Road
undertaken in Barbados (Table 1 of this Annex). These costs were
calculated using the Bank's Highway Design Model. During the life of
the improved pavement, user cost savings were expected to decrease as
the pavement deteriorates. The decrease in user cost savings was
calculated on a pro rata basis according to the life of the pavement
(para. 3f). The analysis assumed that the improved road would be
maintained in "fair" condition. The pavement deterioration takes place
only between "good" and "fair" conditions since one of the objectives of
the proposed project is to improve MTW's capabilities to maintain the
road network.



-53-
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4
(b) Traffic: The average daily traffic volumes were based on counts taken
by MTW during the period November 1983-January 1984 (Table 1 of this
annex). The traffic mix was based on six-hour classified counts;
24-hour counts were taken with automatic counting machines. The raw
traffic data were checked against previous counts taken during the
previous road feasibility studies (Annex 5). In all cases, except for
realignment works, no generated or diverted traffic was taken into
account since the road improvements were of a minor nature and not
expected to change the basic traffic flow patterns. For the realignment
of Highway 2A, however, some diverted traffic was expected since it
parallels the existing Highway 1 which has high traffic volumes (over
10,000 AADT) and is often subject to congestlon.
(c) Road Roughness: The condition of the existing road pavement was measured
on a scale of 1 to 3. A road inventory was undertaken by MTW, and the
pavement condition was rated at one kilometer intervals. The average
roughness index for the individual sections is shown in Table 1 herein.
The vehicle user costs were calibrated according to the roughness index
(i.e. l=road in "good" condition, 2=-fair", and 3="poor").
(d) Construction Costs: 15X was added to the basic construction costs in
order to allow for physical contingencies. The construction costs were
adjusted for taxes and duties (6%) in order to derive the economic
costs.
Ce) Maintenance Costs: The difference in maintenance costs without the
improvement was considered. However, to facilitate the analysis, this
difference was assumed to be zero, which was a conservative assumption.
A sensitivity analysis indicated that a change in maintenance costs
would have little impact on the overall evaluation of the project since
these costs are relatively small and are spread over a number of years.
(f) Pavement Life: The period of analysis was adjusted in accordance with
the expected duration of the improved pavement surface. For asphaltic
concrete surfacing, the pavement duration was estimated to be ten years,
and resealing the pavement was expected to have a life of five years.
For a reconstructed road with double bituminous surface treatment, the
expected life was estimated to be ten years since the base and sub-base
were being strengthened. A sensitivity analysis indicated that the ERR
would not greatly increase by extending the period of analysis over ten
years (para. 6).
(g) Growth Rates: Based on vehicle registration data and on information
provided in recent feasibility studies, a 5% annual growth rate was
assumed for all vehicle types. An analysis indicated that the ERR was
not very sensitive to a change in the growth rates, and, therefore, no
distinction was made in projected growth rates between vehicle types or
road sections (para. 6).
4.        A sample evaluation, based on the preceding methodology and
assumptions, for road Section 11B (Highway 2A) is shown in Tables 2 and 3 of
this Annex.



-54-
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4
B. Evaluations
5.        Overall, the economic rates of return were high, which is normally
the case with road rehabilitation projects (Table 9 of the report). The
construction costs on the road sections have been kept to a minimum by
utilizing the existing roadway and pavement. At the same time, benefits or
user cost savings are maximized since the road surface, which is the main
determinant of roughness and vehicle user costs, is improved.
6.        The economic evaluations indicated that the highest returns were
obtained for resealing works. These involved the least construction costs
while obtaining the full user cost savings from the improvement of the road
surface. The resurfacing works with asphaltic concrete also showed high
returns. The asphaltic concrete surfacing was undertaken on roads with high
traffic volumes (usually over 4,000 vehicles per day). The lowest returns
were usually for reconstruction and realignment works which involved
considerable additional construction costs for improving the base, sub-base
and alignment.
C. Sensitivity Analyses
7.        Sensitivity analyses were undertaken to study the effect of changes
in various assumptions such as the growth rate and the difference in road
maintenance costs. In particular, a detailed sensitivity analysis was
carried out on Section 5b (Highway 2A) which had one of the lowest ERR. The
results of this analysis for the various assumptions are sumnarized below:
Assumptions                         (ERR)
Base case                                              17%
No diverted traffic (instead of a 50% increase)         9%
Zero growth in traffic (instead of 5% per year)         8%
A 20-year period of analysis (instead of 10 years)  22%
A 20% increase in construction costs                   13%
A 15% decrease in initial road roughness               12%
A 20% decrease in user cost savings                    12%
No time savings                                        16Z
No distance savings                                    12%
8.        In this particular case, a critical assumption involves the amount
of traffic which will divert to the road after it is realigned. Highway 2A,
which is a rural arterial serving long distance traffic, parallels existing
Highway 1 (the West Coast Road) which has high traffic (over 10,000 AADT) and
is congested because of extensive strip development.   The analysis assumes
that 1,000 AADT would divert to Highway 2A. Even assuming that no vehicles
would divert to the new highway (an unrealistic assumption), the rate of
return would be 9%.



-55-
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4
9.        The sensitivity analysis also indicated that the road would have a
8% ERR even if there were no traffic growth. This also is an unrealistic
assumption. With the improved road alignment and some growth in the economy
of Barbados, the traffic growth on this road section may even exceed 5%. For
instance, trucks from the new Cement Plant, located at Checker Hall, would
use this route for the internal distribution of cement. Generated traffic
has not been included in the analysis.
10. The analysis also includes a benefit from the reduction in distance
traveled from 9.7 km to 9.2 km because of the realignment of numerous
curves. Even if this distance savings were reduced to zero, the ERR would
still be 12%.
April 1984



-56-                            ANNEX 4
Table 1
BARBADOS
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Basic Economic Evaluation Data
User Costs for Flat Terrain 1/
(BDS$/km)
Road Condition
Auto    Van/Pickup    Med.Truck       Bus
Good          .263       .337           .761       1.078
Fair          .306       .428           .873      1.346
Poor          .350       .521           .995      1.630
User Cost Savings for Flat Terrain
(BDS$/km)
Auto    Van/Pickup    Med.Truck       Bus
Good-Fair       .043       .091           .112        .268
Fair-Poor       .044       .093           .122        .284
Base Traffic Mix and Volume 2/
(% of Average Annual Daily Traffic)
Road Section
Total    Roughness
Auto    Van/Pickup    Med.Truck       Bus     AADT    Index 3/
1            61.9        26.7            8.7       2.7      6328       2.0
3            57.0        28.4           12.0       2.6      2020       2.6
5            72.2        18.5            9.1       0.2      3399       3.0
8            74.4        17.9            7.4       0.3      2000 4/    2.6
10            79.7        14.8            4.9       0.6      4516       2.6
IIA           67.7        18.3           12.0       2.0      5000       2.9
11B           67.7        18.3           12.0       2.0      2020       2.9
12            75.8        20.0            4.0       0.2      1661       3.0
15            62.8        26.2            6.9       4.1      1960       2.5
16A           77.6        13.8            7.4       1.2      4000 4/    2.8
16B           77.6        13.8            7.4       1.2      2500 41    2.0
17            73.1        18.9            6.3       1.7      1987       2.6
Sources:
1/ 'Industrial Estates Access Road Project Feasibility Study Report". Proctor
and Redfern International Ltd., June 1983.
2/  MTW Traffic Surveys.
3/  MTW Road Inventory.
'?/ Traffic adjusted downward by 20 to 30% to reflect influence of new
Industrial Access Highway.
March 1984.



BARBADOS
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITArION PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
ROAD PROJECT      HWAY 2ASECT 118         [MS  9.2        ALr        A
SURFACE          EXISTINU   AC        NEW IMF  RA/AC  ROUGHNESS  2.9
CONSTRUCTION        YEARS   I          2         3        4         5         6        TOTAL   PER VM
FIN COST    SECIION            18003:.10  3615096  1800300                      7215696   784315
ECON COST   SECTION         Oi  1944324  390430a4  1944324         tJ        0  7792952   847060
ECON/FINX   1.08
TRAFFIC             h        ''.677    0.1 I3    *J.12     0.02          1
-----    -----    -----    -----                                IRR           16.9%
BENEFITS BEGIN       YEAR   5                ANNUAL GROWTH RATE    0.05                       NPV       1.27E-05
END             YEAR   14                         BASE AADT    2020                      NPV'     -2.2E+07
DURATION        YEAR   10                                       -----
__- _ _EST IRR                                                                    507.
MAINTENANCE/KM   ROUrINE         0:1            fPERIOD
--------                     --------                              S,TATUS        TRUE
ECON EVALUATION        IRR  16.9?  NPV i 12X 14570.'45  isr  B/c    20.8%
LIMIT 2I.
VEHICLES rYFES              AUTO    VAN/PU  MED TRUCk   BUS
SAVINGS          BDS S /IM
GOOD-FAIR   t.J43    0.091   0.1.112    0.268
FAIR-POOR   1:.C044    0.093   C0.122    0.284
TOTAL
TRAFFIC                 X      6.67/    0. 163    i. 12    IJ.02         1
NURMAL          AADt    137,68      37(l     242        40      2020
DIVERIED                  677       183       120       20      1000
GENERATED                   0         0        0         0
BASE TOTAL           AADT    2045        553-      362        60:    3.121)
INITIAL TOTAL        AAD7    2609        705       463       77      3854
END rOTAL            AADr   4'48        1094       718       12C0    5979
GROWTH RAIE/YR   v.0b
BASE BENEFITS         BDS
GOOD-FAIk            295219   168801   13.6297    54557   654754
FAIR-PUOR             271876   1553.33   133620    51642   612671
TOrAL BENEFITS       YEAR        0j        1         2        *.'       4         5
GOOD-FAIR             654754   687492   721866   757959   795857   83565':'
FAIR-FOOR             c12671   643305   675470   709243   744706   721941



BARBADOS
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
ROAD PROJECT      HWAY 2ASECT 11B        iKMS  9.2        ALT        A
SURFACE          EXISTING   AC       NEW IMP  RA/AC  ROUGHNESS  2.9
BARBADOS DULLARS
BENEFITS                                                     COSTS
MAINTENANCE
YEAR      GOOD-FAIR DETER.  FAIR-POOR DIST SAV  TOTAL                 CONSTR.  ROUTINE PERIODIC   TOTAL                    NET
1                C)       0         0                                      0   0              0                                  0
2                0         0        0                   C            1944324         0            1944324                 -1944324
3                O        O         0                   Cl           3904304         0            3904304                 -3904304  m
4                I)       0         O0                               1944324         0            1944324                 -1944:24
5          835650         0   781941   340663  1958254                     0         0                  C0                 1958254
6          877433   -67743   821038   357696  1968423                      0         0                  0                  1965423
7          921304  -184261   862090   375581  1974714                                0                  0                  1974714
8          967370  -290211   905194   394360  1976713                                0                  0                  1976713
9          1015735  -406295   950454   414078  1973974                               0                  0                   1973974
10        1066525  -533263   997977   434781  1966021                               0                   0                  1966021
11        1119651  -671911  1047875   456521  1952336                               0                   0                  1952336
12        1175244  -823091  1100269   479347  1932369                               0                   0                  1932369
13        1234636  -987709  1155283   503314  1905524                               0                   0                  1905524
14        1296368 -1166731  1213047   52B480  1871163                               0                   0                  1671163
15               0        C0                  0                       0                       0                                   0
16               000 0                                      0                                 0                                   0
17               0        0         0                                               0                   0                         0
18s                                 0                  C'0                                              0                         0
19               C0                 0 0                                                                0                         0
2o               )                   ) 0                                             0                                            0
21               0        0         CI                  0                            0                  0                         0
22               Q         0        0                   C)                           0                  0                           w x
23              C)         00                                                                           0                        .
24               0                  0                   0                            0                  0                         O
25              C0        0         0                   0                            0                  0 
26               0        0         0                   0                            0                  0                         0
0
TOTAL     10510719 -5151214  9835167  4284818 19479491            0  7792952          0        0  7792952                  11606539
0
ECON EVALUATION       IRR   17%   NPV 1 12% 1457045  IST  B/C   21%



-59-
ANNEX 5
BARBADOS
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.   Project Brief: Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project. October
1983.
2.   "Barbados: A Review of Road Maintenance and Construction." BECA-WORLEY
International, December 1983.
3.  Assessment of Maintenance Equipment Requirements. Back-to-Office
Report. A. Mackie (Consultant), December 1983.
4.  Miscellaneous documents related to road and equipment maintenance.
5.   Economic Evaluation: Project Worksheets. March 1983.
6.   'Institutional Strengthening Study." Draft Final Report. Booz-Allen and
Hamilton Inc. November 1983.
7.   "Appraisal of the Operations of the Barbados Transport Board." Headway
Associates. January 1984.
8.   -Barbados Development Plan 1983-1988." Ministry of Finance and Planning.
January 1984.
9.   Local procurement regulations.
10.  "Industrial Estates Access Road Project Feasibility Study." Proctor and
Redfern International, Ltd. June 1983.
April 1984



-60-
CHART I
BARBADOS
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
19B4         1985          1986            1987          1988
1 2  3  4    1  2  3 4    1 2  3  4    1 2  3 4    1 2  3 4
Maintenance & Rehabilitation
Resurfacing
Smith Corner via Hwy 6                    .......
St. Davids via Hwy 6                      .......
Hwy 5-Haggatt lialL to 6 Roads
Hwy 2-Warrens to Sturges                  .......
Reconstruction
Canewood to Belle Gully Junction
Lodge Hill to Cave Hill                   - -----
Salters Junction to Turnpike                                                  ...............
Parish Land to Belle Road                                                                   -  --
Hwy 2A-Warrens to Mile and a Quarter                   .........--- ..    .
Resealing
Cave Hill to Holders Hill                 ........
Realignment
Hwy ZA-Warrens to Mile/Quarter             ....................... --...
EquipEent
Maintenance Equipment                     .-.-..--
Highway Safety Program
Public Road Intersection
Garden Gap-Hwy 7/Worthing                                             -
Bridge Gap-Hwy I                                                                    ,
Yearwood Rd-Hwy I ......
Johnson Rd-Hwy 1                                     ......
Henry's Lane-                                                                      . .
Garrison Rd-Hasting Rd
Pres. Kennedy Dr-Westbury Rd
Pedestrian Sidewalks
Springer Memorial Sc%ool/Hwy
St. George's School/Dash Valley Rd                                               ........
EQUIPMENT
Safety Equipment
Institution Strengthening
W   Planning Unit                                  ----    ----    ----    ....   ....
MTW Financial Management                     ..   ...    ...    n.    ..          ...  .  , 
Equipment Management                         ..-   -.-.    ....   .... ....    ....
Soils & Materials Lab                        ...   ....    ....   ....   --    --    ....   ..
Traffic Department                           ---   --a.    ----    --- ..--    ....   ...   --
Maintenance Management                       ..   ....    ....   ....    ....   ....   ....  .-
Equipment
Workshop
Lab
Loan Closing December 31. 1988
April 1984



IBRD 17750
3 3W Xqs  ^#g                      *MAY 1914
13*IW1
BAR BAD OS
Townofr' t                                     ROAD MAINTENANCE
,Is.T,,., .          AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
j Spr-ng Hall "I
Morilonso nl    p        Chonr- H                                   Project roads to be rehabilitated
AHOf,~                                         Roads:
HAore -                                          Special primary
-      X Prirnary
Fryer's  t 0.                                                  ---    Secondary
Fry r'l W ll 0,# I/   D@ErAOnrd  f  g         Road maintenance:
Vt    I I .1    1  MorSo; n                 a      Depots
Retreat Hillt        oe&oQt-r                                   -   Districts
NO.           l...'~~~~   wSub-districts
tr1lr1.z<_< S0jenghi;oIn                                               --. International boundaries
SrJ lehttown o   I    >8looo 
WES ERN'/-i.-..--' 
Rlock DIn  DISTRICT  1.Turnw, Hall
Weftmora.kind       OMount All
Pr|spect A,)   $.N                Ch.mbro r
ST. MICHAEL  i~~~Rrr.f.Ma
\:AMt.', iEAST           TIS|                     -
NORTH DISTRICT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CVID
Hol-townv                                 SIy,1\/tOEr~>  
Duacont Form ^---i           ;     Strong H                r
^ >  t   .of^'    f   ilCENTRAL TIT)/M 
nOSpReT  2  l  U-jv tl f/ \ i / * ,/ iCf.4'                   T HlILIP NOR TH
ST. MICHSTL. MICHAE ir.,  ;-t                    l r:   Rowe . aLnowdlq   n    ,
N OTH DISTRICT 
CUSA  DO0NcAN      -                                )s-  - -~5 op 0  Tis 
ftJpIlO -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T I P_
nf don vC                           EA                  O      .- o
BRiDGETOWiN                              't /i-H'>
.XS   ST. MICHAEL       UTtA
SOUTHd DISTRICT!.           o         on<r               l>S            Sj* 
sif Yr'            --                               - _ W~ Ic--hs    C H{
l                            =  ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Chaowcory Lr>0
.                                           >          '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- *--l.-
CUACAN                                              U F    ^                                                  - NC
R * uBL-C                                            &91ufh 'Po nt
IA  AIC           rueno1    -  ;^ ttAr                                                          2      
-I~~~~RC
GtADOlOUP -
DOMINICA 4                                    wO32
SAT IN-OUIr. '                                                      i*
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d                                        -_ VW r|o  __,A-_ - -  NW _<____
COIOMBIAF                      "      C     _T
v VE NE:E A u EA                                                     Ig1



IRPfD 18153
,U*w                                   i,.Z                                    sv.ro                                  MA   * vU
-13-30                                                                                      BARBADOS
Conll.I
ROAD REHABILITATION
,- '~ ,                              AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
/' SD. kh Flalln5cuNnI>" b l                    Road  Traffic  Flow
Road s:
Aewzb .. . q Special primary
Primary
Frrgri *1l  P,                                                               -- - i  rvgaxon+   ..  Secandary
/       -y( s wnl _,. ..                                 A    ^ Depots
.4k")  4  ... zBrfrwrz                               Sub-districts
R-lecol 1q.1 _fsl"^.ll)U+0 .. t^*@^t} ~~~~~Districts
Spe.ghsin.n                     i0 I, '  ]                                                     '000  
, ^ t f n \                    Average Daily Traffic
o s-t--1                  !         P.is..,n?,    \o(approximate)
M.1,.W-vSrI,:nd            hRo,unt All   
Apr ,     14,1
,                             A    Si h .,liUb I   ih
R.g
r1nr,- o..I.                                               ,, r
rionS*j                      -'~n II..p 9                                                                                        'ri<
Prospmct   I   ,    . ,;     '-
/                            -f '  f  Cortioge Val I
o1wt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, *oi Roadyf   \                   H
ir4\    /'.- /.c~u ;                                          -v                        ,        <
D -I'll -  e                                                CJ
BR IDGE TOWN                                                  ;                cvC, 1
%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CoS,    . _,,,,,r                                                            r rn- - >   j  ,S  
%. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~e
,t                                                               WV -  ----a---..
~~~~~.1,.                          ~,c  I.                    ,ruio_?



