Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3810-BAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOJ
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$11.0 MILLION
TO
BARBADOS
FOR A
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
May 7, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                   Barbados Dollar (BDS$)
US$1.00            =     BDS$2.00
BDS$1.00                  U US$0.50
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 foot (ft) = 0.305 meter (m)
I mile (mi) = 1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi) = 2.589 square kilometers (sq km)
1 pound (lb) = 0.454 kilogram (kg)
1 short ton (2,000 lbs) = 0.907 metric ton (m ton)
1 long ton (2,240 lbs) = 1.016 metric ton (m ton)
1 US gallon (gal.) = 3.785 liters (1)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BPA        Barbados Port Authority
CARICOM    Caribbean Community
CDB        Caribbean Development Bank
CDF        Caribbean Development Facility
CIDA       Canadian International Development Agency
EMS        Equipment Management System
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
IDB        Inter-American Development Bank
MFP        Ministry of Finance and Planning
MMS        Maintenance Management System
MTW        Ministry of Transport and Works
PPO        Policy and Planning Office
TB         Transport Board



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BARBADOS
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUJMMARY
Borrower:              Government of Barbados
Beneficiary:           Ministry of 1ransport and Works (MTW)
Amount:                US$11.0 million equivaient, including a capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:                 15 years, including 3 years' grace at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project Description:  The overall objectives of the project are to assist the
Government's efforts in improving the road network through
much needed maintenance/rehabilitation and highway safety
works and in strengthening the capacity of MTW to manage
efficiently road maintenance and rehabilitation
projects. The proposed project provides for: (i) road
maintenance and rehabilitation (civil works and equipment)
for high priority road improvement and maintenance within
the framework of the Five-Year Highway Investment Plan;
(ii) highway safety (civil works and equipment) to improve
hazardous locations and increase the safety and capacity
of the network; and (iii) institutional strengthening,
including technical assistance, training and equipment to
improve the operations of MTW in planning, accounting and
cost control, traffic analysis and control, road
maintenance and equipment management, and materials and
soils testing.
Benefits and Risks:   The proposed project would help improve road maintenance
and reduce transportation costs in Barbados, as well as
improve safety and sector management. Considering the
Government's commitment to improving public sector
management, overall project risk is moderate. With the
large increase in road subsector investment, construction
costs could rise sharply. However, International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) should help relieve the pressure
in this respect.
Estimated Cost:                                   Foreign    Local    Total
(US$ million)
Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation                                  7.55      5.47    13.02
Highway Safety                                    0.42      0.32      0.74
Institution Strengthening                         0.38      0.08      0.46
Total Base Costs                                  8.35      5.87    14.22
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Foreign    Local    Total
(US$ million)
Contingencies:
Physical                                            1.11       0.86      1.97
Price                                               1.49       1.32      2.81
Total Project Costsl/                              10.95       8.05    19.00
Front-end Fee                                       0.03                 0.03
Total Financing Required                             10.98       8.05    19.03
Financing Plan:
Bank                                          11.0         -        11.0
Government                                     -           8.03      8.03
Total                                         11.0         8.03    19.03
Estimated Disbursements:                                   (US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year                     1985         1986        1987       1988    1989
Annual                            1.8         2.5          2.6        2.7      1.4
Cumulative                        1.8         4.3          6.9        9.6    11.0
Rate of Return:         31%
Staff Appraisal
Report:               No. 5001b-BAR, dated May 4, 1984.
Map:                    IBRD 17750R
1/ Including US$0.8 million in taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO BARBADOS
FOR A ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Barbados for the equivalent of US$11.0 million to help finance a
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project. The loan would have a term of
15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at the standard
variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report (Barbados, Economic Memorandum, Report No.
4811-BAR, dated January 16, 1984) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on January 30, 1984. Annex I contains the basic country data.
Background
3.        Barbados is a small island in the Eastern Caribbean with one of
the highest population densities in the world. With an area of 431 sq km
and a population of 251,000, it has 580 persons per sq km. Barbados is
also a country with limited natural resources. Apart from pockets of
petroleum and natural gas which now supply about one quarter of energy
requirements, there are no industrial raw materials. The population,
however, is highly literate and readily trainable, and Barbados' many white
sand beaches and benign climate now attract about 300,000 tourists
annually.
4.        Sugar and tourism are the traditional base of the economy.
Together they contribute 20% of GDP and 50% of foreign exchange earnings.
Both are, however, highly subject to fluctuations, and contributed
significantly to Barbados' cumulative economic decline of 7.4% during the
1981-82 world recession. Since the 1970s, rapid growth of an emerging
manufacturing sector has brought a measure of diversification to the
economy. Enclave assembly of electronic components has been the fastest
growing subsector in recent years. Mainly because of this subsector's
performance, manufactured exports now greatly exceed the value of sugar
exports, and represented some three quarters of merchandise exports in
1982.
5.        Barbados has had a strong tradition of generally sound economic
management. The Government's policy orientation has been appropriate to
the country's limited economic options, favoring a strong private sector
role in the economy, including suitable foreign investment. Moreover,
economic development has proceeded with political and social stability. As
a result, Barbados has become one of the more developed countries in the
Commonwealth Caribbean. By 1982 per capita income had reached $2,960.



-2-
The challenge for Barbados is to strengthen the resilience of the economy
and develop new growth industries.
Recent Economic Developments
6.        The economy performed well over the last two decades, with
average growth of 5% interrupted mainly by international recessions.
Following the pause in domestic growth brought on by the 1973/74 energy
crisis, the economy recovered strongly. Tourism and manufacturing grew
rapidly and agriculture had some good years both for production and price.
The broad-based expansion domestically was buttressed by buoyant conditions
overseas and by the appreciation of other OECD currencies vis-a-vis the US$
to which the BDS$ is linked. Unemployment declined considerably--from
22.5% to 11.4% of the labor force--and there was a steady accumulation of
international reserves. Meanwhile, price increases accelerated from 8% in
the early 1970s to 14% by 1980, mainly owing to increased international
inflation.
7.        The international recession of 1'981-82 brought a halt to this
steady progress. Two consecutive years of declines in tourism and sugar,
and stagnation in manufacturing led to a cumulative drop in GDP of 7.4%.
Inflation also moderated to 7% in 1982. Thae sugar and tourism sectors
experienced severe cash flow problems in the face of falling sugar output,
low sugar prices and sharp declines in hotel occupancy. 1981 was also a
year of relatively expansionary fiscal and monetary policies which, in
combination with the weakening external markets, created severe financial
difficulties for the Government. Public sector savings dropped 30% and net
foreign reserves declined from US$71 million to US$47 million after
increasing for four consecutive years. The authorities resorted to
considerable commercial borrowings to support the balance of payments.
8.        Because of the protracted nature of the recession, Barbados
concluded, for the first time, a Stand-by arrangement with the Fund in
October 1982. The Stand-by supported an austerity program of fiscal and
monetary measures aimed at containing the deterioration of the public
finanices and balance of payments. The measures included: new taxes,
strict control of the growth of current expenditures--including public
sector wage restraint--a cut in capital expenditures in nominal and real
terms, selective controls on bank credit, and increases in domestic
.interest rates to adjust them to internatLonal levels.
9.        The US econiomic recovery contributed to an upturn in tourist
arrivaLs in 1983, but the performance of sugar and manufacturing (except
&l j1;- &i-½e couponents) corLtinued to be weak, and there was no growth in
DPO s a result, tie unemployment rate reached 15% compared to 11% in
1981 and 13% in 1982. However, under the adjustment program that was
supported by the IMF Stand-by, the fiscal and balance of payments deficits
were. reduced considerably by the end of 1983.  The external current deficit
for 1983 is estimated at 6.5% of GDI? compared with 9% and 8% in 1981 and
1982 respectively, and the 1983/84 public sector overall deficit, at 3% of
GDP compared with 6% of GDP in 1981/82.



-3-
Outlook for 1984
10.       The outlook for 1984 is strongly dependent on external
developments. While sugar output is expected to pick up, the prospect of a
continued weak sugar market suggests no upswing in sugar prices this year.
Furthermore, the lagging European recovery, and the continued uncertainty
in the CARICOM market for regional manufactures, may continue to affect
Barbados' tourism and manufacturing sectors adversely. These factors
together warrant little optimism for output growth this year. The need to
stem the drain on the external reserves which registered losses in each of
the last three years, calls for continued restraint in domestic economic
management.
Development Objectives and Strategy
11.       The Government's development objectives and strategy are framed
in the context of Barbados' small size and limited natural resources.
Thus, the objective of attaining higher degrees of self-sufficiency, for
example in food and energy, is balanced by a strategy of export
diversification.' The Government advocates a dominant role for the private
sector in produc,tive activities, with its own direct role largely limited
to the provision pf supporting infrastructure and, recently, to oil
exploration activities for which no private firms have shown meaningful
interest.   The diversification strategy aims at strengthening the economic
base and at increasing the resilience to external shocks, to the extent
possible for such a small economy. However, size and resource
considerations severely limit Barbados' development options. The country
will continue to have a comparative advantage in tourism. A major task is
to identify other productive activities where Barbados' prime assets--an
educated and trainable labor force, proximity to the North American market,
and good communications--are a distinct advantage.
12.       Further industrialization would appear to offer the best
opportunities in this respect. An industrial strategy study recently
carried out for the Government with financing under the Bank's Industrial
Development and Export Promotion Project (Loan No. 1813-BAR) identified two
new subsectors--medical supplies and information processing--as
particularly suited to Barbados' conditions, and the Government is
attempting to attract these industries.
13.       In agriculture, the Government is emphasizing nontraditional
crops to reduce the sector's dependence on sugar.  Expansion of vegetables,
fruits and livestock to their economic potential will better meet domestic
market needs, and provide valuable linkages with the tourism sector. There
are also good export prospects for vegetables, shipments of which have
already been made to the regional (CARICOM) and United Kingdom markets.
14.       To save imports and strengthen the economic base, energy
development is now a central part of Barbados' development strategy. The
Government is itself involved in oil exploration, and is supporting the
development of alternative energy sources, as well as providing incentives
for energy conservation. The Bank's Technical Assistance Project
(2115-BAR) is helping the Government to formulate an energy conservation
policy, and is also providing consultants for various aspects of the
Government's agricultural diversification efforts.



- 4 -
15.       The development strategy a:Lso envisages programs to strengthen
the tourism and sugar sectors, which were severely strained during the
1981-82 recession. Such programs would fccus on efficiency and cost
control. For tourism, this means government promotion of wage restraint
and more widespread use of renewable energy and energy-saving devices. For
sugar, it means support for further mechanization and further incentives to
improve yields.
16.       Successful implementation of thi.s strategy calls for adequate
institutional capacity. The strategy has implications for the transfer of
labor out of sugar into nontraditional agriculture and manufacturing, for
the provision of adequate extension and other services to nontraditional
agriculture, and for relevant manpower development programs, appropriately
phased to support the industrialization process. Furthermore, energy
planning would need to be institutionalized to provide a sound basis for
decision making on energy development and conservation policy. While
institutions in some of the directly productive sectors are reasonably
strong, others in sectors such as agriculture and some social sectors would
have to be strengthened.
Public Sector Investment and Financing
17.       Public sector investment in Barbados has aimed to provide
supporting infrastructure and adequate incentives for private sector
productive activities, and a satisfactory level of social infrastructure
suited to the needs of an expanding society with rising living standards.
Public sector investment averaged per annum 6% to 7% of GDP in recent
years, up to 1981, but was cut back sharply during 1982 and 1983 owing to
budgetary constraints. Some projects with external financing were either
deferred or slowed down, and no major new projects were started in those
years.
18.       Whi,e the iavestment program for the next four years will have to
be flexible enough to aucommodate changing financing situations, the
program outlined by the Government i-n its 1983-88 Development Plan is aimed
at furthering the development objectives outlined above. Thus, ihe
Government's direct support to productive sectors, together with direct
investments in energy, are allocated the single largest sha e of
expenditure--40%--followed by econormic infrastructure and social
infrastructure with 25% each. Adminiistrative and other services will
absorb the remaining 10%. In agriculture, major new projects have been
identified to help the private sector to exploit the fisheries and
livestock potential of the isLand anld to further the development of fruit
orchards. In the energy sector, oil drilling and exploration account for
the bulk of the proposed investments, but, expenditures are also
allocated for gas transntlssion and distribution, and for pilet operations
irL such aiteralative energy sources as wirLd and municipal waste, where
feasibility studies are already underway. In industry, projects are
proposed for financing industrial estates and export promotion; and in
tourism, maialy for airport improvements.



19.       The bulk of expenditures under economic infrastructure is
allocated to the internal transportation system--reconstruction and
rehabilitation of roads and bridges, traffic management, and highway
maintenance. The allocation represents about 22% of the investment
program, and compares with 14% under the Government's previous development
plan. The increased share is justified by the age and deterioration of the
existing transport network (roads are the only means of internal
transportation), and by the need to provide expanded and well-maintained
transport facilities in a growing and increasingly complex economy. The
proposed highway maintenance and rehabilitation project will assist the
Government in carrying out about one quarter of the total transport
program.
20.       Financing the investment program will require careful balance in
the use of domestic and external resources. Because of the susceptibility
of the balance of payments to fluctuations in the main exporting sectors,
particularly tourism, the Government has to be cautious in expanding
external commercial debt. This will require a greater effort to raise
public sector savings back to 5% of GDP, the rate achieved in the years
preceding the last recession. Such a target is entirely feasible. Already
in 1982/83, as a result of new taxes and expenditure cuts under the
Government's adjustment program, public sector savings had risen to 4% of
GDP from 3% to which it had dropped in 1981/82. While little scope may
remain for new revenue measures because of the broad coverage of the many
tax measures introduced since 1981, there is room for improvement on the
expenditure side of the Government's budget. Among other things, the
Government is expected to continue its policy of wage restraint and its
present efforts to reduce current transfers to public enterprises, a course
to which it is committed. Moreover, given the present tax system, the
expected recovery of production should be expected to contribute
substantially towards increasing public savings.
Prospects and External Creditworthiness
21.       Barbados' economic prospects depend strongly on the ability to
exercise flexible and prudent management in the short term, and to continue
to foster a domestic climate favorable to sound long-term development.
As indicated in para. 11 above, among the country's assets are its literate
and readily trainable labor force, proximity to the major markets of North
America and an attractive natural setting for tourism. Resumption of
steady growth in the OECD countries would sustain growth in tourism and
manufacturing. The Government is fully aware of the need to maintain price
competitiveness, and intends to encourage moderate wage settlements and
production efficiencies. The increasing emphasis on economic
diversification should contribute towards bolstering the economy.
22.       Barbados' public and public-guaranteed external debt rose
relatively rapidly in the last three years owing to borrowings for balance
of payments support and to cover the external requirements of a few large
capital projects. The debt in 1983 is estimated at $244 million or 22% of
GDP, up from 10% in 1980. Because of Barbados' developmental needs, the
debt is expected to increase over the next four years, but the levels are
expected to be manageable. The debt service ratio which was 7% in 1983 is



projected to remain below 10% over the projection period. On this basis
Barbados is regarded as creditworthy for conventional borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
23.       Barbados became a Bank member in 1974.  The proposed project
would be the Bank's eighth lending operation.  Bank loans to Barbados total
about US$49.0 million and are for education, tourism, industrial
development, electric power and technical assistance to the Ministry of
Finance and Planning and the Ministry of Agriculture. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans as of March 31, 1984. In addition,
Barbados has benefited from the Bank's lending to the Caribbean Development
Bank (CDB). So far, three loans for a total of US$6.7 million from IBRD
resources have been made by the CDB to Barbados: in 1978, for an industrial
development project (US$2.6 million); in 1981, for the rehabilitation of
two sugar factories (IJS$3 million); and in 1983 for the manufacture of clay
tiles (US$1.1 million).
24.       Although some projects have experienced delays and cost overruns
(see below), project implementation and loan disbursements have been, on
the whole, satisfactory; in most cases funds are now fully committed.
Until last year, the education project suffered delays in implementation
because of cost overruns and a shortage of local funds. Following approval
early this fiscal year of a supplementary loan of US$3.0 million,
implementation is now proceeding satisfactorily.   In power, because of
lagging demand growth, the electric power -ompany has slowed down
implementation of its investment program. This resulted in disbursement
delays of the power loan. Finally, the technical assistance project is now
proceeding satisfactorily after initial delays in the selection and
contracting of consultants.
25.        rhe Bank will continue to support the Governments efforts to
aliv-er.tity the economy. Future Bank lending is likely to be directed mainly
to agriculture, infrastructure, manufacturing and the development of energy
resources and energy conservation with a particular focus on further
fostcriag Barbados' institutional development. Institution building, which
wias started in existing projects, will be furthered under repeater
pDrojects.  Bank projects in new sectors will contain institution-building
comporrents and technical assistance for their implementation as
ipp_pi.iate.  Moreover, cofinancing with private sources will be sought
.wh-a.;-- ~t 'Feasible in order to enhance Barbados' ability to tap
.,aitai private capital markets to meet its developmental
I ,'I Ir.nerIt- over the long term.
o.       The Bank nas maintained a I:ruitiui dialogue with the Government
or- its ecooraic policies and developraent priorities riot only through
:;',.O'C and sector work but also through the organization of subgroup
menniJgs under the auspices of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in
EconoiiP.c Development (CGCED). At subgroup meetings multilateral and



- 7 -
bilateral donors have expressed substantial interest in financing specific
priority projects and in providing technical assistance to Barbados. In
addition, in support of its balance of payments, the country received
special assistance through the Caribbean Development Facility (CDF)1/ from
the US, the UK, Canada and the OPEC Fund. As of December 1983, CDF-type
pledges to Barbados have amounted to US$27 million. Barbados has also
benefited from the Venezuelan oil facility established in 1980. Lastly,
Barbados is eligible for all the benefits of the Caribbean Basin Initiative
of the United States.
27.       In 1982 the Bank's share in Barbados' outstanding public and
public-guaranteed external debt was 7%; its share in Barbados' external
debt service was 4%. It is estimated that by 1987 the Bank's share in
Barbados' outstanding public and public-guaranteed external debt would be
about 10%. The Bank's share in external public debt service would then be
about 7%.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
28.       The transport system of Barbados consists of an international
port at Bridgetown, an international airport located about 15 km east of
Bridgetown and about 1,370 km of road network. There is no railway in
Barbados. The Ministry of Transport and Works (MTW) is responsible for the
infrastructure and, through the Barbados Port Authority (BPA) and the
Transport Board, for ports and maritime services, and public bus transport,
respectively. The Ministry of Tourism is responsible for aviation. The
Government owns Caribbean Airways which operates air charter services to
Europe.
Maritime Transport
29.       Almost all imports and exports (mainly sugar, rum, and molasses)
are handled in the deep water port (30 ft. draught) at Bridgetown. The
port commenced operation in 1961 and is well served by marine liners which
provide connections with most trading countries.  The port facilities,
which include six deep water berths, cargo handling facilities, transit
sheds and administration buildings, were expanded and improved in the late
1970s with assistance from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). In
addition, the new Arawak Cement Plant, nearing completion north of
Speightstown, will have its own facility to export cement directly. There
are also numerous small fishing ports located around the island.
30.       In general, the Barbados Port Authority (BPA), which administers
the deep water port, is well run and in sound financial condition. The
total tonnage handled has averaged about 0.6 million tons during the last
four years.   While total traffic has declined slightly during the recent
world recession, the proportion of containerized traffic has been
1/ The CDF was established during the First Meeting of the Caribbean Group
for Cooperation in Economic Development, held at Bank headquarters in
June 1978. It is a financing facility designed to cover some of the
local costs of development projects in Caribbean countries, including
Barbados.



increasing rapidly and now amounts to about 50% of the cargo handled. Even
with the decline in traffic, the net operating profits in 1981 and 1982
were BDS$528,000 and B3DS$759,000 respectively. The BPA has considerable
flexibility, which allows it to set tariffs3 with the approval of the
Government according to market and cost colnditions. With the conversion of
traffic to containers, which allows greater cargo throughput, berthing
facilities will be sufficient to handle projected traffic during the next
ten years. BPA, under the country's Five-Year Development Plan (1983-88)
with an allocation of BDS$36 million, intends to improve the port's
capacity to handle containers through the procurement of a gantry crane and
paving of additional storage areas.
Air Transport
31.       The Grantley Adams airport is the main gateway for tourists to
enter the island, and tourists represient nearly two-thirds of the total
passenger traffic. Recently, mainly because of the world ecoaomic
recession, the number of tourists and total traffic have declined; total
passenger movement fell below one million in 1982. The runway was exteaded
and improved to allow heavy aircraft to land. Subsequently, a new terminal
building and other facilities were completed in 1980 with assistance from
the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). The new facility is
designed to cater to nearly 3 million passenger movements and is not
expected to reach capacity until after 1990. Under the Five-Year
Development Plan, BDS$13.4 million have been allocated for runway
maintenance.
Road Transport
32.       The surface transport system of 1,370 km of public roads consists
of seven radial highways which converge onl Bridgetown (see map.)  The
radial highways are :Linked to each other bDy secondary and tertiary (feeder)
roads. In addition, there are some 300 km of private roads. All of the
roads in the public system are paved but usually narrow, ranging from 5.5
to 6.5 meters in most areas. More important, because of increased traffic
growth, lack of investment and deficient maintenance, the quality of the
road system has deteriorated and large sections urgently need
rehabilitation.
33.       Traffic volumes in and around Bridgetown are generally high,
considering that the roads have only two lanes. The average daily traffic
on the radial arterials ranges between 4,000 and 14,000 vehicles. Daily
traffic volumes on most secondary roads away from the urban areas are
usually less than 2,000 vehicLes and, on tertiary roads, vary between 200
and 400 vehicles. Few data are available on historical traffic growth
trends since the Ministry does not undertake a traffic counting program on
a routine basis. However, based on registered vehicles traffic appears to
be increasing at a rate of 4-5% per annum.
34.       Transport of goods is provided mostly by the private sector,
while transport of passengers is provided mainly by the public sector,
except for tourists, who use mainly private taxis. Independent
driver-owners undertake most of the cargo haulage, particularly sugar cane,
construction materials and imports. The majority of manufactured goods,



- 9 -
however, is distributed by captive fleets of the industrial firms. There
are few regulations on cargo transport and no barriers to such activity.
In contrast, the backbone of the passenger transport system is provided by
the public Transport Board, which operates a fleet of over 300 buses
throughout the island. Supplementing the Transport Board are private firms
which provide jitney bus and taxi services. Although regulated, entry into
the passenger transport services has not been unduly restrictive.
Sector Issues and Strategies
35.      Since the port and airport have recently completed large scale
development programs and have adequate capacity for the medium term, most
transport issues in Barbados are related to the road sector. Major issues
involve planning and coordination, investment, road maintenance, road user
charges, urban traffic congestion, the Transport Board and axle loading
restrictions.
Planning and Coordination
36.       The transport system is relatively straight-forward because of
the limited number of ports and airports and the lack of competing modes of
transport. In the past, most large-scale investment in the transport
sector had been prepared with the assistance of consultants and
international financing agencies. With the growth of the economy, and the
aging of the road system, capacity and maintenance problems in the road
sector have become more complicated. Also, developments such as industrial
parks, beach resorts and the cement plant have implications for
transportation planning and coordination. While MTW is one of the largest
ministries, unlike other ministries, it does not have a permanent planning
staff. A program to strengthen the Policy and Planning Office of MTW is
included in the proposed project.
Highway Investment Plan
37.       During the late 1970s, investments in the road subsector were
minimal because attention was focused on the development of the port and
airport. In the early 1980s, road investments increased with the
construction of the Spring Garden Road, which provided access to the deep
water port. However, as this project came to a close and because of other
large-scale investment priorities in other sectors and constraints caused
by the international recession, capital expenditures in the road subsector
actually declined in 1983/84. Partly as a result of the lack of timely
investments in the road subsector, capacity constraints and deterioration
have developed on the road network system.
38.       With completion of large investment projects in other sectors,
Government, in its Five-Year (1983-88) Development Plan proposes to triple
annual expenditures in the road subsector. About 22% of the Government's
capital expenditures are projected to be invested in roads during the
period. The need to divert resources to the road subsector is apparent,
and the justification for most of the projects in the plan is evident.
However, during the review of the individual investment programs, questions
have been raised concerning the proposed Northern Access Road (BDS$23



- 10O -
million), which is to be financed by the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB).
The high construction costs and heavy axle loading of the cement plant
trucks used to haul clay on this road suggest that alternative solutions be
considered. Further analyses to identify the optimum solutions are being
undertaken by the project consultants and CDB.  Since the economic studies
have not been completed, the Government stated that it would (i) analyze
and evaluate the proposed road and allow fcor an adequate economic rate of
return which would approximate the opportunity cost of capital in Barbados,
and (ii) consult with the Bank before making a commitment to this road. In
addition, the Government will consult with the Bank before undertaking any
road investment project with annual investment expenditures greater than
US$1.5 million (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Road Maintenance
39.        Besides the growth in traffic and the lack of investment, the
deterioration of the road system has resulted from inadequate maintenance.
While the level of expenditures for maintenance appears to be adequate, the
funds are not used efficiently. Maintenance funds increased from BDS$ 10.5
million in 1978/79 to BDS$18.7 million in L982/83. Calculations made
during the preparation of the project indicate that, assuming a reasonable
level of efficiency, it would be possible to maintain the road system in
"fair condition with a maintenance expenditure of BDS$19-20 million (see
para. 41.)
40,        The Government, being aware of the inefficiencies, commissioned a
consultant (Booz, Allen & Hamilton, LIS), financed by IDB, to review the
financial, technical and organizational structure of MTW; a draft final
report was submitted in December 1983. The report made recommendations to
improve the basic management and institutional arrangements within the MTW
to overcome major shortcomings in planning, cost control, management of
maintenance and equipment, and soils and material testing. The thrust of
the proposed project is directed toward institution building to strengthen
MTW's capacity to carry out maintenance in an efficient manner.
Road User Charges
41.        In the past, the yield from road user charges and taxes has
covered both capital and maintenance expenditures in the road subsector.
Revenues are mainly based on fuel taxes and fuel is priced at about US$2.00
per gallon for gas and US$1.60 per gallon for diesel. In 1981/82, road
charges amounted to BDS$30.0 million, while expenditures amounted to
BDS$29.0 million, yielding BDS$1.0 million in net revenue. In 1982/83,
with tthe introduction of a new Transport Levy, charges on road users
yielded a net revenue of BDS$16.7 million. The Transport Levy is a form of
payroll tax for the specific purpose of financing road maintenance and
improvements, and public bus transport investments. In the future,
expenditures are expected to increase greatly, which will consume the
excess of road charges over expenditures. Also, the comparison does not
include the large deficits which are being incurred by the Transport Board,
but these should be reduced (see para. 44). In addition, most of the
burden of the road user charges falls upoII passenger cars, which tend to do
the least damage to the road pavements.  Thus, while overall road user



- 11 -
charges are adequate, an increase in the taxes on trucks, which would
discourage the use of large single rear axle trucks, is warranted (see
para. 47).
Urban Traffic Congestion
42.       The Bridgetown metropolitan area contains over 60% of the
island's population and is the major generator of economic activities and
corresponding transport demand. The road network within the city consists
of narrow roads which are restricted by existing buildings. On many
streets, there is insufficient room even for sidewalks.  As a result of the
high transport demand and the narrow roads, traffic congestion is common,
particularly during morning and evening rush hours.
43.       To reduce urban congestion, the Government has already started on
a program to improve signalization and has implemented a program of one-way
traffic flows in the downtown area. In addition, an urban transport study
financed by IDB is to commence shortly and will provide an action plan for
future improvement to traffic flow in the Bridgetown area. In the longer
term, the Government with IDB assistance, is proposing to build a bypass
(Industrial Access Road) around Bridgetown which will divert traffic from
entering into the center of the city. Work has already been done on
several lengths of the bypass and the required investments are expected to
be completed during the five-year period of the Plan. In general, the
Government's proposed approach to improving traffic flows in the urban area
is realistic. There will be, however, a need to strengthen staff capacity
to implement recommendations resulting from the urban transport study. The
proposed project will partially address this need by establishing a traffic
department within MTW (Schedule 2, Part D3 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Transport Board
44.       For several years, operation of the Transport (Bus) Board (TB)
has been heavily subsidized by the Government. The subsidy amounted to
BDS$11.19 million in 1980/81, BDS$15.0 million in 1981/82 and BDS$14.5
million in 1982/83.   During preparation of the proposed project, a review
of the Board's operation revealed that about one-third of this deficit is
caused by discount fares offered to school children and the elderly, for
which the Board is not responsible. However, most of the remainder is
caused by inefficient operations and overstaffing. In particular,
deficiencies have been noted in scheduling and rostering since no formal
timetables exist and there is no through-routing across the city center.
Also, procedures and facilities are not sufficient to maintain the fleet of
buses, which has recently been replaced. In addition, because of staffing
practices such as the requirement for both a driver and a conductor on each
bus, the number of employees per bus amounts to about 7.7. By way of
comparison, in Bermuda, the number of employees per bus is 1.8.
45.       The Government is undertaking both short- and long-term measures
to improve the efficiency of public transport and lower the deficit.
Collection boxes are now being installed on each bus which should
eventually eliminate the need for conductors. Also, fares have recently
been increased from BDSc 60 to BDSc 75 per ride. Since January 1984, the
TB, assisted by consultants, has undertaken a program for training all



- 12 -
mechanics over the next two years,, as well as prepare public timetables,
bus operating schedules, and drivers ' rosters to be introduced in Septenmber
1984,  In addition, management has indicated its willingness to reduce
staff through attrition.  These actlons are ITajor positive steps which will
help improve the Transport Board7s operations in the near future. MTW,
which has general supervision over the TCB, is actively involved in these
improvement efforts.
Axle-Loading-Restrictions
46.       Although Barbados has a gross weight limit for vehicles of 11.2
metric tons, it has been easy to obtain pervd.ts which allow heavier
vehicles to travel on the road sy'stem. There is no axle load limit, and no
distinction is made between a vehicle with a slngle axle and tandem axle,
the latter causing far less damage to the roads,  Recently, permits have
been given to allow the cement plant to utilize 19-ton trucks (gross
weight) with a single rear axle to haul clay and cement. The rear axle
loading (30,000 pounds) of these trucks exceeds the current limit for US
Interstate Highways by 50%. The damaging efiect of one pass of this truck
is equivalent to about 1.5 passes of an ordinary truck (about 10-ton gross)
in use in Barbados.
47.       The Government: is tackling this problem through several
approaches. A bill currently before Parliament provides for differentiated
maximum weight limits for various categories of vehicles. The Budget for
FY84 presented recently includes sharply higher licensing fees for heavy
vehicles. In addition, instructions from MT'W to the vehicle licensing
authority are in preparation; they would restrict the issuance of special
permits. Since Barbados is a small island, vehicle weight restrictions can
best be enforced through import regulations which prohibit the entry of
vehicles whose specifications exceed the legal limits. Therefore, action
is being taken to ensure that fut:ure importation of public service vehicles
would be subject to the prior approval of the vehicle licensing authority.
With regard to the heavy cement plant trucks, these would be allowed to
operate only with reduced loads which would bring down the gross weight
from 19 to 16 tons. Putting these measures into effect would be a
condition of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement (Section 6.01(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
The Bank's Role in the Transport Sector
48.       The proposed project would be the Bank's first operation in the
transport sector in Barbados. The Badn's sector lending strategy is to
emphasize the improved utilization and maintenance of the existing
transport resources, from which economic returns are quick yielding and
high. In particular, stress is being place(c upon assisting Government in
its efforts to implement institution building measures within MTW.
Although Bank assistance would include financing a portion of the proposed
five-year road rehabilitation and maintenance program, which will have high
economic returns, the major benefits from the Bank's involvement would
accrue from its assistance toward the systematic elimination of MTW's
operational deficiencies, which have already been identified by the
Government.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
49.       The proposed project was identified in September 1983, and
prepared by the Government with assistance from the Bank, utilizing the
studies which had been undertaken. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal
Report - Barbados Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project" (No.
Ak,          5001b-BAR dated May 4, 1984) is being circulated separately.  Annex III
contains a timetable of key events in processing the project and a
description of special conditions of the proposed loan. Negotiations were
held in Washington in April 1984.  The Barbados delegation was led by
Mr. Branston Collymore, Permanent Secretary, MTW.
Project Objectives
50.       The overall objectives of the proposed project are to assist the
Government's efforts in improving the road network through the execution of
much needed maintenance/rehabilitation and highway safety works and in
strengthening the capacity of MTW to manage efficiently, plan and execute
road maintenance and rehabilitation projects.
Project Description
51.       The proposed project would seek to achieve the stated objectives
by providing financing for the following three major components:
(a) high priority road maintenance and rehabilitation within the
framework of the Five-Year Highway Investment Plan, including,
civil works for about 64.5 km of primary roads and equipment.
This would include: realignment (6.8 km - minor relocation,
widening and rebuilding of road section), reconstruction (24.4 km
- widening and rebuilding of the pavement section within the
existing road alignment), resurfacing (28.8 km - strengthening of
the existing pavement with an asphaltic concrete overlay) and
resealing (4.5 km - covering of the existing pavement with a
bituminous surface treatment). For realignment work final
engineering is expected to be completed during the first year of
the project. This component of the proposed project also
includes the provision of equipment (dump trucks, pickups and
other miscellaneous maintenance equipment and spare parts) which
is needed for routine maintenance and execution of part of the
civil works;
(b) highway safety, which consists of civil works and the procurement
of appropriate equipment (striping and signaling machines), to
improve safety at road intersections, sidewalks and minor road
realignments. Final engineering has been completed.
(c) Institutional strengthening of MTW which would include:



- 14 -
(i)    implementation of an integrated accounting system, cost
accounting system for construction and maintenance, and
data base system for financial management;
(ii)   strengthening of the Policy and Planning Office to assist
in improving investment and budget priorities,
inter-agency coordination and in-house capabilities for
socio--economic analysis;
(iii)  establishment of a traffic department to undertake traffic
and accident surveys and analyses and plan traffic flow
and safety improvements;
(iv)   development and implemental:ion of a maintenance management
system to plan and execute maintenance operations more
efficiently;
(v)    development and implementation of an equipment management
system to improve the maintenance and utilization of
equipment; and
(vi)   establishment of a material and soils laboratory to
improve design and quality control.
The programs cover all. the activities necessary to enable MTW to
carry out its road maintenance fun:ctions in an efficient manner.
52.       To implement the institutional strengthening of MTW, new
positions (Deputy Chief Technical Officer, Equipment Manager,
Materials/Soils Engineer, Maintenance Engineer, Traffic Engineer,
Information System Manager, Senior Planning Officer and Planning Officer)
and related key staff are necessary. Some of the positions will be filled
by reorganizing and transferring existing staff. MTW is now in the process
of creating these positions and recruiting additional personnel.
Adequately qualified and experienced key staff will be recruited prior to
the proposed loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement), except that the Senior Planning Officer and the Planning
Officer would be recruited by April 1, 1985 (Section 3.06(a) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
53.       To assist MTW with the implementation of the institutional
strengthening component, technical assistance, training and equipment would
be provided under the proposed project. For that purpose, about 38
man-months of foreign (26) and local (12) technical assistance would be
provided on an intermittent basis spread over the life of the proposed
project. The technical assistance would mainly be aimed at the provision
of specific expertise when needed, and at on-the-job training of Barbadian
staff.   Training would mainly consist of on-the-job experience supplement-
ed by in-country seminars and courses. Particular emphasis would be placed
on the development of key managers in the various programs. Equipment to
be procured under the institutional strengthening component would mainly
consist of equipment for the materials and soils laboratory, as well as
workshop tools necessary to improve the maintenance of\MTW equipment.



- 15-
Costs and Financing
54.       The proposed project based on January 1984 prices is estimated to
cost US$19.0 million equivalent including US$0.8 million equivalent in
taxes and duties. The proposed loan of US$11.0 million would finance the
foreign exchange component of the project (58%). The Government would
finance the balance, US$8.0 million equivalent (42%). The maintenance and
rehabilitation component accounts for 92% of the project costs, with
highway safety and institution building amounting to about 5% and 3%
respectively.
55.       The cost estimates for the civil works have been based on road
inventories, layout drawings, and preliminary engineering depending upon
the nature of the work involved and prevailing unit contract rates. In
addition, an adjustment was made for an improvement in efficiency,
particularly in the case of bituminous surface treatment. Cost estimates
for road maintenance equipment, highway safety, and institution
strengthening have been made utilizing manufacturers' quotations, c.i.f.
Bridgetown. Consultants' costs are based on costs of similar assignments.
Physical contingencies used were: civil works 15%, equipment 5%, technical
assistance/training 5%. Price contingencies per annum were 7.5% from 1984
to 1988 for local costs and 3.5% in 1984, 8% in 1985 and 9% from 1986 to
1988 for foreign costs.
Project Implementation
Timing and Organization
56.       The project is to be implemented between July 1984 and June
1988. The Government of Barbados would be the borrower under the proposed
loan, and MTW would be responsible for the execution of the works. The
Deputy Permanent Secretary of MTW, who serves as the head of the Policy and
Planning Office, would be the Project Coordinator. The implementation of
the various components of the project would be handled by the various
departments concerned and supported under the proposed project's
institutional component.
57.       The implementation of the civil works for the road maintenance
and rehabilitation, and for the highway safety component would be
undertaken by both private contractors and MTW force account. MTW would
undertake most of the smaller works, for which preparation and mobilization
costs by private contractors would likely be too high.  The use of both
contractors and MTW force account would provide a means of comparing
efficiency. The Bank would agree on the use of MTW force account, provided
that: (a) the labor force is not increased to undertake project work;
(b) MTW maintains a program to reduce the labor force in the future through
attrition; and (c) detailed cost estimates and work schedules acceptable to
the Bank are prepared. Total Bank disbursements for force account
construction would not exceed US$4.7 million equivalent, about 50% of total
estimated disbursements for civil works (Schedule 4, Part D, of the draft
Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
Procurement and Disbursement
58.       Civil works to be executed by contractors would be awarded after
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement dated March 1977. Contracts for equipment
estimated to cost over US$40,000 would also be arranged through ICB.
Contracts for equipment estimated to cost below US$40,000, would be
procured in accordance with local tendering procedures which are acceptable
to the Bank and are on file. In accordance with the local tendering
procedures, items costing above US$12,500 equivalent would be procured by
public tender and items below US$12,500 could be procured after receiving
three written quotations. There would be an aggregate limit of US$200,000
on local procurement of equipmenl (Section 2.03 and Schedule 4 of the draft
Loan Agreement). Consultants for technical assistance and training would
be selected and engaged following the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants dated August 1981. Training institutions would also be
acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
59.       Based on the assumption that about 50% of the civil works for the
road maintenance rehabilitation is undertaken by private contractors, a
breakdown of procurement by component is suimmarized as follows:



- 17 -
Procurement Method
(US$ million)
International    Local         MTW
Competitive  Competitive   Force
Category/Project Element       Bidding       Bidding    Account  Other  Total
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program
Civil Works                     8.62                       7.65           16.27
(4.74)                    (4.20)            8.94)
Equipment                       0.99          0.19                         1.18
(0.88)       (0.17)                        (1.05)
Highway Safety Program
Civil Works                                                0.95            0.95
(0.50)          (0.50)
Equipment                       0.05                                       0.05
(0.50)                                     (0.05)
Institution Strengthening Program
Tech.Assistance/Training                                          0.45    0.45
(0.36)  (0.36)
Equipment                       0.10                                       0.10
(0.10)                                    .(. 10)
Total         9.76          0.19         8.60   0.45   19.0
(5.77)        (0.17)      (4.70) (0.36) (11.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank.
60.       Disbursements would be made against the following categories of
expenditures (Schedule I of the draft Loan Agreement):
(a)  55% of the total cost of civil works for road realignment,
rehabilitation, resurfacing, resealing and highway safety
improvements;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures for imported equipment and spare
parts and 70% of local expenditure for locally procured equipment
and spare parts;
(c)  100% of foreign expenditures for expatriate consultants or
training fellowships and 80% of local expenditures for local
consultants and training;
(d)  100% of the front-end fee; and



- 18 -
(e) 100% of the initial special account: deposit.
Disbursement would be made against standard documentation for goods and
services exceeding US$20,000 equivalent. For work undertaken by MTW force
account and goods and services costing less 'than US$20,000, disbursement
would be made against statements of expenditures. Reimbursement
applications should be greater than estimated US$20,000 equivalent. In
order to reduce the interval in which the Government would finance the
Bank's share of the project costs from its own resources, a Special Account
would be opened in the central bank with an initial deposit of up to US$0.4
million, to be provided from the loan account. The Special Account would
be audited by independent auditors (Sections 2.02(b) and 4.03 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Accounting, Auditing and Monitorinj
61.       MTW's accounting and budgetary procedures fulfill Barbados' legal
requirements; however, the system has not been designed to provide
information for managerial purposes. The Office of the Auditor General and
MTW's Internal Audit section are understaffed at different levels of their
organizations. Furthermore, the Internal Audit section does not have an
independent status. MTW would therefore (a) establish a system of accounts
for the project before disbursement for MTW force account construction
(Schedule 1, para. 4(b) of the draft Loan Agreement); (b) design and
implement an integrated accounting system for MTW by March 1986;
(c) establish a separate internal audit department within the Ministry by
February 1985. The project accounts would be audited by an independent
outside auditor (Section 3.06(b) and 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
62.       Execution of the project would be monitored through normal
supervision and quarterly reports. In. addition, a computerized project
monitoring system would be used to review progress of the project toward
its objectives. The system would be established in the Bank using data
collected by MTW. Later the system would be transferred to MTW to operate.
Environmental Impact
63.       Except for short stretches of realignment, most of the road
rehabilitation and maintenance work is within the right-of-way of the
existing roads and will cause little disturbance to the environment. Most
of the sections to be realigned are in the rural areas and cause little
displacement of people or structures. To the extent that traffic
congestion along the project road sections will be obviated, reduction in
noise and air pollution will result. Also, drainage improvements will, to
some extent, reduce local flooding.
Benefits and Risks
64.       The proposed project would contribute to the maintenance and
improvement of the transport system in Barbados and would facilitate
economic development. Road transportation is involved in almost every
aspect of economic activity in Barbados, and the benefits from the project
would be widely dispersed. More specifica'Lly, the road maintenance and
rehabilitation component would lower vehicLe running costs on the road



- 19 -
network and help to preserve past and future investment in the subsector.
The highway safety component would improve locations with hazardous driving
conditions and thus increase the safety and capacity of the system.  The
institution strengthening component would increase MTW's capacity to carry
out road maintenance and rehabilitation in a more efficient manner, thus
reducing costs and improving the quality of the road systefli.
65.       Civil works of the maintenance and rehabilitation component,
which accounts for about 86% of the total project costs, were subject to
full economic analysis. For each road section, benefits were measured in
terms of user cost saving, which is the difference in vehicle operating
costs and driver and passenger (automobiles only) time savings without and
with the improvement. The analysis of the individual sections yielded
estimated economic rates of return (ERR) ranging from 14% to 60%. The
overall estimated rate of return for the civil works of the maintenance and
rehabilitation component was 31%. Sensitivity analyses performed on a
section with one of the lowest ERRs indicated that, even under extreme
assumptions, the ERR would not go below 8%.
66.       With the large increase in road investments proposed under the
Five-Year Development Plan, the prices of road works could increase
greatly.  However, the large-scale projects in the investment plan and part
of the proposed project would be tendered through ICB which should tend to
reduce local pressure for price increases. Considering the high degree of
the Government's commitment to improve the management of public sector
institutions, the overall project risk is moderate.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Barbados and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately. Additional
conditions of loan effectiveness would be that (i) MTW will have recruited
the adequately qualified and experienced key staff necessary to man
critical positions in MTW; and (ii) measures to control vehicle weights are
put into effect (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). Special
conditions are listed in Section III of Annex III.
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.        1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 7, 1984



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
BARADOS                - SOCIALM INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RARRADOS                                FERtEkNCce a0Us (YICHtED AvEg=) (
MOST                      (DMST RECENT ESTDIATE) /b
RECENT            MXIDDLE INCOU           MIDDLE Ticoe
1960/1      19701-h  ESINATIB-    LAT. AMERICA 6 CAUtD            1009
ARE (TWSMID SQ. D0
TOTAL                                 0.4         0.4         0.4
AGRICULTURAL                          0.4         0.4         0.4
GMp PER CAPITA (08$)                   480.0      1206.0      3500.0             206.2                    2453.6
ENERY 0COIIOD tER CPIA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      266.0      1750.0          ,              1607.6                   1580.8
PO.AITnO  A  VITAL STATIStICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    231.0        238.0       250.5
URBAN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)        35.4        37.0        39.7               65.9                     47.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (KILL)                              0.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                                0.4
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                              2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Kif.                      537.2       553.5       579.8               35.6                     82.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND            577.5       643.2       673.8               93.2                    157.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                          38.1        37.4        26.6               40.1                     31.9
15-64 YRS                          55.2        54.4        62.9               55.8                     60.9
65 AND ABOVF.                       6.7         8.2        10.5                4.1                      7.2
POPULATION GROWTN RATE (X)
TOTAL                               0.9/c       0.3/c       0.5/c              2.3                      1.6
URBAN                               1.4         0.7         1.1                3.7                      3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TNOUS)         30.7        22.9        23.1               31 5                     25.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)         10.2         9.0         8.5                8.1                      9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.0         1.5         1.2                2.0                      1.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)            ..
USERS (1 OF HARRIED WOMEN)          ..          ..
POfD AND NTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       103.0       108.0        85.0              113.0                    108.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)      109.0       120.0       136.0              111.3                    129.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          65.0        78.0        90.0                67.9                     92.3
OF WNHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        36.0        48.0        56.0/d             34.1                     34.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          6.6          1.8         0.7                5.3                     10.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        64.3        68.3        71.2               64.6                     67.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)        74.0       40.1        26.0                62.6                     71.4
ACCESS TO SAPE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                ..        98.0       100.0/e             64.8
URBAN                                ..        95.0       100.07i             77.8
RURAL                                *        100.0       100.07;i            44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..       100.0      IOO.O/e              54.6
URBAN                                ..       100.0      10O.077              69.8
RURAL                                ..       100.0       i0o.07o             29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          3040.0       1900.0      1230.0             1776.0                   1094.8
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             390.0/f    270.0        320.0             1012.2                    762.5
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             170.0       100.0       110.oL/            477.0                    334.0
URBAN                             160.0/f    120.0        140.07ji           667.5                    216.0
RURAL                                ..       16n.0/k     190.07js          1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED           ..          9.2        10.2/1             27.2                     20.0
NOOSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHHOLD
TOTAL                               4.0         4.0
URBAN                                ..         ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                               1.2         1.0
URBAN                                ..         ..
RURAL                                ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (S OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..        59.1
URBAN                                ..         ..
RURAL                                ..          ..



- 22 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 2 of C'
BARBADOS                 - SOCIAL ElRDICATORS DATA SHEET
REPIERZNC  SOUPS MZIGHTED AVERAGES) La
MOST                        (206T RECENT ESTDtATE) lb
/   RECENT/            MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE  GCQ8E
1960'1      1970    ESTDTBb          LAT.A8REC& CARIS                 EUROPE
IDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PPIMARY:   TOTAL                    108.0        108,0        117,0               105.0                      102.2
MALE                    116.0        t11.0        117.0               106.3                      107.2
FEMALE                  10250 105                 117.0               103.6                       97.9
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     39.0         71.0         85.0                40.0                       56.5
MALE                     46.0         70.0         84.0                38.6                       63.4
FEMALE                   33.0         72.0         85.0                41.2                       48.9
VOCATIONAL (7 OF SECONDARY)             5.2          4.1           .                 34.0                       22.4
PUPTL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              40.0         33.0         27.0                30.7                       24.7
SgCONDARY                            29.0         27M0         23.0                16,7                       22.1
ADULT LITERLACY RATE (%)               98.2         99.2         99.0/h              79.5                       69.7
CON&SUMIFON
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP            34.6         81.1        102.9ftd             45.6                       52.9
RADIO RECEIVERS/TROUSARD POP          151.5        373.9        541.5               228.2                      165.5
TV RTCEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                 ..        67.2        200.6               108.3                      124.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION               86.2         96.6         f4.6                64.1                       96.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         7.0/i        4,6          4.5/e               2.9                        2.9
LABOR FORCP
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)              91.0         90.0        112.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     42.0         39.9         42.0                24.8                       34.5
AGRICULTt8RE (PERCI!NT)              26.4         21.0          8.1                31.3                       40.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   27.0         22.0         25.3                23.9                       23,4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                39.6         37.8         i4.8                31.3                       42.0
MALE                                 51.2         48.3         55.5                49.8                       55.2
FEMALE                               30.2         28.4        '15.4                14.8                       29.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.1          1.2          0.8                 1.4                        0.9
INCOMR DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5X OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..        19 8/4         ..                   .
HIGHEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         44*
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..         68/
LOWEST 409 OF HOUSEHOLOS                ..        186
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                         NM.  .  434.O/d     289.8
RURAL                                  ..            .        4 4.07              184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UREAN                                                         5 '  ' ' L8.0/d     519.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..        5L8.o77             372.1                      409.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (9)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         23.0/d                 .
RURAL                                  ..           ..         23.07..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/d  The group averages for each indicator are populationi-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicatorm depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/, Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Mont Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  Due to migration, population growth rate is higher than the rate of natural increase; /d 1977; /e 1975; /f 1962;
/  1976; /h 1978; /i 1963; /, Income recipient; /k Covernment hospital establishments only.
May 1983



-23 -                                                                    ANNEX I
0Dace 3 of 6
ItFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INtICATOftS
fletaso   Although the data or. dean fles  snuce  gearlp jdgsd the must authoritative and reliable, ta should sl.a An notd the ti                  sy  noh  intrntinaly
-oaparbla bcaise of ahe lack of standardiard dsfi.tnioo- sd concepts used hy different c..unorie. i  collec...    tha data.Th  data. one, nont .eesa   uaful so
d.a. robe uIdar-a faoi id         d icaf  trae,ad chara.taiaI. cer.ai Ids.jor difference   _ae     cuties
The reference group  ace :f(,Iithe ea-  oouny group of the suhjeo   onr   n   2   cutygopct   oels   inraeaeicm   than the country group. of the
eojccnnr  (ecettu   1hg                     Oinc Epee  lfo `tre  gou   hr  'MddeiceNot  Alt. fca ad.fiddl  tat&          ecoe   eas   fLsroge  aci-Iutua
e    Leosdi  neltting aae  of one indicatr, no another.  Thes.a. rge  ae,oly  -ufu1 in comparing the nae. of on  idicator.1  a ti.n  as     Ithe country and
oat (thas..d  sqiu.                                                                                PPuola,o  ca"I I    iih      Ppuatndioield.by tahe  of praonicitg
- Ttalan  c  arsa c-p,Oinig land nrea an d inlandears  I MAO,                               pipeic-ata qoalfIed rcs    ed Ica   Ieln  toieet   e
1970 und 49.i dat..Pplfo   e   oan   esn    ouaotdn       ytme   fratcn
l      tftPnd l1l dat.                                                                       Pu-tis     rN.a  ita   id-cou .....,adl - rural -bPycico   nn
k. h.. &.ld ... .. I. Ii.arbon.and ruIfY l- n  by.. thirr. pcro.                                 rshrofhoptabd
1910 d191,8 ad 1980 daa                                                                         yatiatan9hacin                 aobh,ttpni ing print    --a I  cutda
cure are not inc -dd.lrlhotao,e e, inluephealth atnt
rI'ayal ry  ioladlgit,p              7aam  natua  goso  byro,nularaic                                   ie,nuo   adln,  0cc.Y_ ahic  uffll In-aten  beondt o   n
TotalG CONSUlatoon . Mi-CArPI TA oAada-    - ao   uy    h11y 11,adlfinsainserla    iei ted  ETotoi. c..he  of  oesto tur  i                                                     idage
cr00  oclaio  Icecen  o  ttal    ott  of urbanPto total -pap-olanh ion;Al
amngoonclallAd,y iO,od  19I      aa                                                    oroetn   fhoahl    eon dtf-IYen housetoydl phy  ota-  orhu, b  an  rural
1960uL970i   -dr8,Pro Actun                                                                       p- idhuoudcolti         no  ntropo  tditdaff_          ochr  11 -1dyutr
years.  The paremotana for fentil Iny~~~~A roe adlaohsn  three 1970ned 1oo9uie  car:1.l1'h.,ts.
saumn  dctn   n  eciipsccda   t  ncs  ire   ndpinfaiyOrea oClcr ni     eceT ci d _ilou  -d   "':eIran' ndrra 
plannIngt denfa. onc.    Echtun           If ce b rsigne  orel of  dnetieCooc iaoaedellingd  cby oleoncicicy  in  iid                              i  uatrsu
cobiacoc  o  ancliy  ndfetloy  sceda  .oe yrbicll r PIror.o   ca,obn   n  rrldelnsfoetin
"ttPtr ..... iahitnIca-sattinary  dpulaiondhute  a no-roet
elt   h   irth  rate, 1970 eqayotedahrc,sdas  th  ag.tlUTING
strutoreesoiacorian.d 1981 issd ee   ni.fe   ent  s   ae                             PfutdOrulectto
delie  o  tereiaemutloelnfuot  etrarnuc in  at,  bn               Pimrysuon  -toul, al  ad  emle-  roa  otl,ran  ndfial
"eri    ilyan   bnyplreen   lesl                                                           conninoctooeroeualun litc yoedih rr
popolatonsleaill heporhod.Secondry arhol - ttal, sae and  rnale    Coepotd aa anou;ooo.rdad
Pe  s.  t.it-erouatnpe   qaetis r10  toriaely o                                                    rndodnrc  no -actnnal, or  touhe  taito                toicuni    iond~
Pee so. Is. agricalcucul land d Itynda  aohfraniu  oa  ln                                  oe   Ihc7 roc..d.d
Pocalatton Oar tnroccune Ple ncenIY  1 Childre  10-lu :ceuca,    h. bokcue   0               nldeitorl    nutnl,d   to   r0aouhc   prt   cun
papoltino   IMA, 100, ad 191 daa.                                                  f2tcu~4y':P'a 7  d..0o da0-ec.,.Ic    orlidI
Pttoorruh-noecefotlono   gruhatso   nn..-.nnrad   cudryneadcd...coufoahcrcncr
poplation..  for 190t-l, lh-fOd      n -1971-Si.papet.entug  of.d noca  ddu-ln  e  dorhiactacd1- caouo                                                           r
trd   inhgteIo -%ooand  - dsoai on  bOn   polcedunden-nd
fsmr roroilootno;  oAl, 1971, and lOl dots.                                   tlhilthily
Cnd   ouhiielt   hosn)     eeuldibapshuun  n   t-nu                                       oanunat   ttthout ooauul-yaonn_tn eLoo
poeo,stit  19           ....9.0.an  190dn.r,uaig  esta   ih   esoo   o  doab lne    rre   n
Gron Oredtrir  aa-ncaend c  fdagtnaaoa   cOlherOnslJTitay  ehnl
ore  orma  repoducice  erio   if oaetoIene   rtc   g-  euo                             a otrieo(u   huudccl  lu      l   yo   freeuoincdi
fen hity  i-p;sully.. fle-ea  nefan   nogt                           _d90,adtedcsaegnon   olry  ittr    i  uoain   c oo   r
nnofnhlldfrrnolll-IlyorsIuh  tn hotf -eno o  d                           dic c.oe,nlned_                              r-   hnrcortefO
Ine   ffc tY-AiroCro                   Ou0-0t-  0c   freoiop lott  ocoohd Th  Y.,,h   con- tly0  c   cootll.                                    -non      --d0.u-
acuayndeoe2utfoeoootees, Pooceecolocnecodoon"alyrhtpp-ra-lonforlnPooo
irniocti. is       ilelnnu  bru -hant.                                                                  A      Pndhecnn   cnr1ot(.u  otuooihncoeeyraue   o   nrhoy   otoohce
Iasyd 09000   '90 icda 19c80 pfdoccp.    esogt  .b-.            90,ad18
1960s  adcane   in70  sot.d 19on d opitncld   nolfedLrd,roprbe tA,7IcdIM2aa
ucito Snd `ot' considerignecoenlneprtr,bd 9lhn                                                the   sprcnaoo   oa  labor itrcn-; IOhu1, d-  T       1-1' 1 on llld 11doo
ag Pn   e   onihno   fpplon7,  and  alc1g97             eretfctnrIdtr   rret     abrfoel0  iiq   ot rc  t,nauurcn
at        G t houeod  e-l dl-    Ifoay  OOIaib-n  ninen YrIy    te   n   t  5yoacooo   oo   ao   uo;10;
snoodara sos b Ontha   honhi9        out  ftuo  rnrl   o 19        nat                      etlecnnlo-oococc.ecot                 -oooOn  odln   In   ro.0
Th%,ird~  9odd  food turey   I A ,  190  ane90  js.                                            ennl  eonee0  ato     otn_fppoa  nnodn  000  Iad_00t
-dan...            y fContI dihhl 1969019010-
ag   r tp-tpur,suhldc   Iofog_aocfonandonote                                               oooi   ihoni  oonO.ooos(    TPe,uyooccopteno
Fnutcocl     ut deuod mn tintuIdn 1-0,dh -fodOildot._occtedd
ItuJO   "ItvOoff 000110'   Y 01f1-0
_ebith                                                       PiI 00  c   91  aa                tol   oInepcn   -ItcYoo;rui  oucteen.                         -b
loanncnuottaecefhoscd-Otafderb  o  eiat  odooo                    toltnloolucfc              dl `eoo-looiIh  pceplo  -ocdt                 t
tcceta  f Safedater (eccantnO ropoaniun--) ita,  ranhud  u -      -                      oollolytdqoo _'I_dooc ploeoclln-ndrteonntOht
bouuco  popl  fosn,  rbe,  nd  ore)  ithresoohlacrsucctff                                        I'oroll,
Ua..p        . InldaOrue   tiaeunr   r  nrao   uotTnV                                       o   euOo  ooc   non   ee_Oh  e   ulc)-uhn_c   ua 
innoaiae    aearuaaft    rccnbnhlaarnsad                                                           uaclsroonyocnaol    c-hoo   drg    arpn
tul   oyal)s   etean   fheteo  otod-oohn.I  npeon     cocu   e  ens0    nbcio    tocudfu   o   oo
uohooaoeoayubloc  doontain o  itcpa   oue   o   oe  hn10ooc                              on    ihauteifrhgr   et  fion   nuhnaes
tccnuoto~~~~ tIfea  ioccl  yaceoPf-oultin)-  onl,..u.. n
raalftnerfrol    tta    rhnaocuaf  euohye-rc
Otcy,oh  s prcenato  of. th_Yecthsyyloin,Zroidoc
nayitluetbrnlnrccnaddiPot,odIthc               1616,191,-   19snonteonncu                                                      tetrnsoolgoloiolut                      -
tuaetreuadegi-uerbotc-areycuaoohuoofpthcnoolioludrooe'P                                                                                                       oarer
rctoiesaod  asaifur lnrnei inn looc .                                                                                       napR 1001l



24-
c2W  per cpita.:  11S$2,960 (1982)                                                                                                                                        r         4     6
882A1    M AI     D83ICAM~
IndlicAtor                      trd mllion at                                                    &WWAr,rwl   th Rate (8)
airrmnt priom)                                  Actual -            _____Prel.Poecd
1982                i7Il ig7ig           974  i       4         1981    -      1983      198        1984       195        198        1988       1993
NATIOAL ACOOS
Gross Doaetic 1PrmicLt                     1005. I/                1.2        5.3       8.7        4.9       -2.7          -4.6         -          5.0        5.0        5.0        5.0        5.0
Agriculture                               62,1L                 2.1        n.ea.      8.1        5.5      -18.6          -1.3        n.a.       n. A.      n.a.       n.e.       n.a.       n.e.
mtining & Irdmtry                        116.8                 -2.1        3.0       10.2       14.3       -7.6          -1.6        nM.        n..ne.                n. a.       ..        n.
Service                                  723.3                  4.9        5.7        7.5        3.3        0.2          -5.4        n.ea.      n.a.       n.ea.      n.ea.      n.a.        1.eM.
Ccmnauotion                                884.5                   4.9      -2.8        4.8         2.0       4.2          -5.9       -4.5       -1.2         1.9        1.4        3.8        3.8
Grcse  Investtant                          212.4                -30.5       14.3       10.0       12.2       11.6         -14.2       -2.2         7.0       12.0        5.0        5.0        5.0
Exprorts of 1819                           558.6                 16.4       16.0       13. 6       7.1      -11.1          -4.0         1.4        6.4        7.2       9.9        7.1        6.6
Iwporte of  M89                            650.4                   5.0       6.4        9.0        5.9        1,2          -8.9       -3.4       -0,3        6.3        6.1        6.2         5.6
Grosg Natiornal Saving                      131.1                21.2       49.7       -7.3       33.7      -34.4         -12.1        13.8      27.9       14.6       10.8        6.5        8.2
PRICES
=CP deflator (1976 - 1X0)                                      112.5      119.5      133.3      156.4      190.4         202.7      220.9      241.0      2.57.8     275.9
ExcharW  rate                                                   2.0        2.0        2.1)       2.0        2.0           2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0
Share of MP( at Market P?rices (                                                       Averege AoneLk Increase()
(at oArrent prices)                                                               (at cocItalt 1976 prlces)
1977      1981       1986                                               1976-81       1981-86       1986_93        19B3-4)
Gross Daesetic ProicLt  /10(1.0                                                  10(3.0     10(1.0                                                3.4            2.0           5.0           5.0
AgrimtoLure                                                           9.2        6.8        n.ea.                                              -1. 1          n.ea.          n.a.          n. a.
Mining & IrdAstry                                                    10.8       11.4       n.ea.                                                3.3           n.ea.          n.a.          n.e8.
Services                                                            69.6       71.4        n. a.                                                4.3           n.ea.          n. a.         M. a.
Indirect Taxes less Subsidies                                        10.4      10.4        n.e.                                                -0.2           n. a.         n.a.           n.e.
Conaompticn                                                            88.9       88.1      81.0                                                  2.6          -1.7            3.9           2.5
Gross Invtos                                                           19.5       25.0       25.0                                                  1.8           2.0           5.0           6.3
Exports GM1                                                            55.8       61.0       53.8                                                 7.9            4.1           7.1           7.4
I1rorts MS99                                                           64.2       74.1       59.8                                                 5.5          -0.2            6.2           5.2
Grcss National Savings                                                 14.0       13.9       20.5                                                -0.8           10.2           6.5          11.1
Aa % of MP
PUcX FLV                                                                                                197_ _9 I_s
Current Rew,ue                (Gentral Gov't)                                                        23.9        2,,?7     24.5
Current Expenitsres            (Central Gov't)                                                       23.4       23.0       23.5
Surpluis (+  or Deficit ()   (Ceritral Gcrvt)                                                         0.5         3.7        1.0
Surplus (+) or Deficit C-   (Total Public Sector)                                                      3.0        5.5       4.2
Capital. Expenitures          (Total Public Sector)                                                   9.8         6.6        7.7
Foreign Finsnirg              (Total PuUbli  Sector)                                                  2.8         2.7        2.9
1976-81   1981--86    1986-9(1    1983-90
OrM INlDICAaOt88
G88 Growth Rate (8                                                         3.2        1.8         4.9         4.8
GNP per Capita Groith Rate (8                                              2.8        1.4         4. 4        4.3
12rergy Coosartion Growth Rate ()8.8                                                  n.ea.       n. i.       n. a.
IC(R                                                   ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~6.6  11.3  5.(1  5.0
Marginal Savinge Rate                                                     -0.06       0.83        0.27        0.S9
Import ElastidLty                                                          1.62      -.0.1I       1.24        1.4A
~/At market prices:  coarpaxnits aze expressed at factDr cost and will not add to total due to exclusion If net indirect taxEs end subsidies.



- 25 -
Populatton:      0.251    (nmid-1982)                                                                                                               AiiEX I
G1P per capita:  US$2,960 (1982)                                                                                                                    Pag  S of 6
RAROADS - EXiRNTAL TRADE
Amrunt                                                     Anrual Growth Rate (%)
Indicator                (US$ milUon at           --at crsstant 1976 prices)--
current prices)                             Actual                                      Est.              Projected
1982               1977      1978      1979      198t      1981         1982      1983      1984       1985      1986
EXERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports (domestic)        186.3                n.a.     14.6      10.2       17.9    -17.0          18.1       2.5       4.9       6.8       4.9
Sugar ard Molasses                   34.4                n.a.      n.a.     23.1       8.7    -51.4           32.8    -16.3       11.1      13.5       5.1
Otter                               151.9                n.a.      n.a.      n.a.     30.4       2.3          12.2       8.8       3.3       4.9       4.9
Merchandise luports (retained)        484.0                4.1       4.8       9.0       0.8        3.8        -8.5      -4.4       -2.3       6.4       6.4
Food                                 8D.8                n.a.      n.a.      n.a.      n.a.      n.a.         n.a.       n.a.      n.a.      n.a.      n.a.
Petroleun                            42.4                n.a.      n.a.      n.a.      n.a.      n.a.         n.a.      n.a.      n.a.      n.a.       n.a.
Machinery                           135.4                n.a.      n.a.      n.a.      n.a.      n.a.         n.a.       n.a.     n.a.       n.a.      n.a.
Otbers                              225.4                n.a.      n.a.      n.a.      n.a.      n.a.         n.a.      n.a.      n.a.       n.a.      n.a.
?STCES
Export Price Index                                       106.5     114.7     129.8     159.7     175.9         173.1     179.2     187.4    2D0.2    211.9
Iport Pr.ce Index                                       107.6     118.0     144.6     168.8    184.0         193.8    3N9.3       225.0    240.7      257.6
Terms of Trade Index                                      98.9      97.2      89.8      94.6      95.6         89.4       85.6      83.3      83.2      82.3
Coeposition of Merdiandise Trade (%)                         Average Annual Increases (M)
(at current prices)                                   (at corstant 1976 prices)
1976           1982           1986                      1981-86       1986-90       1983-90
Exports (dorestic)                                          100.0          100.0          100.0                         7.3            4.8           5.1
Sugar and Molasses                                         42.1           18.5           12.8                         9.2            4.4           6.7
Manufactures                                               52.5           76.8           77.9                       ) 6.8            4.9           4.7
Others                                                      5.4            4.7            9.3
Iiports (retained)                                          100.0 a/       100.0          100.0                        -0.5           6.4            5.1
Food                                                       16.7           16.7            n.a.                        n.a.          n.a.           n.a.
Petroleum                                                   8.8            8.8            n.a.                        n.a.          n.a.           n.a.
Machinery                                                  28.0           28.0            n.a.                        n.e.          n.a.           n.a.
Others                                                     46.6           46.6            n.a.                        n.a.          n.a.           n.a.
Share of Trade with                    Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (M)               De[eloping Countrtes (M)
1973     1976      1982                 1973      1976     1982
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                                    56.8      56.1    44.9                  43.2      43.9      55.1
lIports                                                    67.0      57.7     55.8                 33.0      42.3    44.2
a/ Includes imports for re-export.



Popalation:     0.251   (mid-1982)                                       - 26 -                                                       ANNEX I
(lP per capita: US$2,960 (1982)                                                                                                       Page 6 of 6
BAR6AD0 - BALA  OF PAYNS, EXMaFNAL CAPI'AI AND DEBT
Actual                            Est.                      Projected
1977     1978     1979      1980     1981      1982     1983      1984     1985      1986     1988      1990
BALANCE OF PA14IS (US$ million)
Exports of GNFS                   277.2    346.3    445.3    586.8    574.5    558.6    601.5    653.8    726.2    845.2   1120.2   1463.4
of which: Mercardise f.o.b.     109.0    131.5    167.0    250.4    219.0    236.3    269.3    286.4    306.4    340.8    441.1    556.5
Imports of GSFS                   319.0    372.0    497.2    614.8    678.1    650.4    694.3    747.0    827.0    939.1   1226.8   1565.9
of which: Merchandise c.i.f.    272.5    314.2    424.2    524.5    569.5    534.0    565.8    610.0    667.5    759.9   1000.5   1280.3
Net Factor Services               -1.6       1.6     -1.4      -4.0     -6.6      -8.9    -12.9    -15.6    -20.6    -25.4    -35.8    -46.1
Net Transfers                      16.1     16.6     22.0      21.5     25.1      19.5    :30.0      38.0     43.0      48.0     57.5      65.0
Current Account Balance            -27.3      -7.5    -31.3    -10.5    -85.1    -81.2    -75.7    -70.8    -78.5    -71.3    -84.9    -83.6
Private Direct Investment            -         -        -         7.0      6.5      15.0      n.a.     n.a.      n.a.     n.a.      n.a.     n.a.
MLLT (net)                           18.0     16.1       6.7     11.9      59.3     19.7     72.4a/   22.9      49.8      46.4     49.3      49.2
Other Capital n.e.i.                19.0      20.0     28.4       7.9     -5.3      39.7     -6.7      47.9     28.7     24.9      50.6     54.4
Chaxne in reserves (increase = -)   -9.7    -28.6      -3.8    -16.3      24.6       6.8     10.0       -        -        -       -15.0    -20.0
EXERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbarsemeent                24.8     19.7      12.9     19.3     65.3      35.4     84.0      46.8     73.4      78.4     91.1    103.2
Multilateral                      n.a.     n.a.      9.9     17.3      27.5     24.1      26.0     18.5     21.6      21.9     24.5      25.5
iagD                            -        -         -        0.8      3.6       8.9     11.5       7.2      8.6      10.4     11.5      12.5
CDB                            n.a.      n.a.      2.6      5.9      7.0       5.8      3.4       2.0      2.0       3.0      4.0      4.0
ID8                            n.a.      4.4       5.0      6.8     10.6       8.6      6.1       7.5      8.0       8.5      9.0      9.0
Other                           n.a.     n. a.     2.3      3.8      6.3       0.8       5.0      1.8      3.0       -        -         -
Other (off. & priv. sources)j/     n.a.      n.a.     3.0       2.0     37.8      11.3     58.0      28.3     51.8      56.4     66.6     77.7
Official Grants                      0.3       0.8      0.6       1.0      1.1       1.8      2.0       n.a.     n.a.   n0a.        n.a.     n.a.
External Debt
Debt Outstandirg & Disbursed     55.4     69.4      74.3     88.1    155.3    173.2    243.6    266.5    316.3    362.7    462.1    564.8
Debt Service
Total Service Payenrts            9.1      8.2      12.5     14.3     16.8      31.8     31.7      44.5     49.3      62.4     82.6    105.0
Interest                        2.0      3.8       5.7      5.9      9.7      14.3     18.1      20.6     25.6      30.4     40.8      51.1
Amortization                    7.1      4.4       6.8      8.4       7.1     17.5      13.6     23.9     23.6      32.0     41.8      54.0
Paymmts as % Exports C/           4.4      3.2       3.9      3.4      4.1       7.7      6.9       9.0      8.9       9.6      9.7       9.2
Average Interest Rate ai New                                                                6.4       8.9      9.3       9.5      9.7       9.9
Loans (%)
Average Maturity of New lans (years)                                                                 13.0     24.8      20.4     17.5     12.2
a/ Ikludes project-related floA of 30.0; and financirg for?Mobil assets 13.0, Barbados Sugar Factories 7.5 and USAID program Ican 7.0.
6/ Includes otber public and publicly guaranteed firartirg fron bilateral and private sonrces,
c/ Dmestic exports and gross travel receipts.



- 27 -                             ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BARBADOS
A. Statement of Bank Loans as of March 31, 1984 1/
US$ million
(Amount less cancellation)
Loan           Year       Borrower      Purpose             Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
1642-BAR       1979      Barbados       Education            9.0      -         2.0
1685-BAR       1979      Barbados       Tourism              8.0      -         0.7
1813-BAR       1980      Barbados       Industry            10.0      -         3.9
1940-BAR       1981      BLPC           Power                6.0      -         4.9
2115-BAR       1982       Barbados      Technical
Assistance         2.7      -         2.5
2260-BAR       1983      Barbados       Ind. Credit         10.5      -        10.0
1642/1-BAR    1984       Barbados       Education Suppl.    3.0                 3.0
TOTAL                              49.2     -        27.0
of which has been repaid           3.3      -          -
TOTAL Outstanding                 45.9      -        27.0
B. Statement of IFC Investments as of March 31, 1984
None.
1/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 28 -                     ANNEX III
BARBADOS
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project:  6 months;
(b)  Project prepared by:  MTW with Bank assistance;
(c)  Identification mission:  September 1983;
(d)  Appraisal mission:  January 1984;
(e)  Negotiations:  April 1984;
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  August 1984.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  The Government shall consult the Bank before undertaking road
investments involving annual expenditures of more than US$1.5
million (para. 38);
(b)  MTW shall establish a Traffic Department (para. 43);
(c)  The Government shall establish and enforce vehicle weight
restrictions and reduce the operating loads of the heavy trucks
of the cement plant; putting the measures into effect would be a
condition of effectiveness (para. 47);
(d)  The MTW shall create necessary positions and recruit key
personnel needed for strengthening critical areas of MTW. Actual
recruitment of adequately qualified and experienced key staff
would be a condition of effectiveness (paras. 52 and 67);
(e)  The MTW shall improve accounting and auditing (para. 61);
(f)  Establishment of project accounts would be a special condition
for disbursement in respect of force account expenditures (para.
61).



IBRD  17750R
59o4'                                             sq                                               59 I30                                             MAY  1984
-13-20'                                                    B                                                       BARBADOS                                            13-20
Connell
fZ  Tawnw rx\)<                                                  ROAD MAINTENANCE
AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
/d cHall    n A
Harrison       /              /     Cae H-    Project  roads to be  rehabilitated
t            2tHa f                    d                                         Roads:
Acre                                                     -         Special primary
Primary
Fryer'sWell                    , Didmand                                                            Secondary
Carner- ~_                                                    Road maintenance:
wMcran                                   A        Depots
* Retreat HeI ,.>&o(><rter Lewis                                                              Districts
Retreat HIP   le& a Q     r         _                                  -   -Sub-districts
_-3elSt  &   /       OOrcnoe HiII                                              International boundaries
Speighstown                                    B.ain1f15
Rack Dundo-.'                 / . >14 .  Turner's Hall
Westmoreland      '          Mount All
0  I~~~~~~~
Prospect   AA       I kon P  k                       ' II  tsI  br- -
| ~ "A'                .''i ( ' ' A            ,;ChimborazoI
Holeto                   X0t                                                                                            <        
-13-10'                                    }              '>   '       Sfrong Hqpr6                  F _c ur Cross Roads  f                                             13-10'-
;;el   'QRds[                                                                            Hill. -g\>
Prospect _                   >         t /                  >vR                            eXmel ic                                         (
-       1                     -0& --                                                   Brightan7  s Rowe Brid
-13o0:y .,T  -jw-,,>4   i                  ,     -    _                .  j          ?             Lowland    -         , -.1-s
'a~ ~ ~ ~~~'
v~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                       righton,".bfjwng tJarso   a ne s  , <z
Deacon's~~~~~~~~~~~~ = Fr                             Welhe >/Ci'  
2     <ifs cAN               laa~~~BIDG TsOWN 7r                                    ri'.r_        /
59t4d  'h 
Chancery Lane
HA TI  ot
JAMAiCA                       RIC            ANTIGUA                                                                0                  2                4
GUADELOUPt.                                                                                       M4i..
I)DOMINIJCA                                                                         Kiloete,ser
CarJb6eaa Ssrv           lMARTINIQUE%   L                                                                             24A
ST \'INCSNT/ O
RARBADOS
.>  s z        GRENADA A                                                              tee needens Lnd   sn Lv sh a p  t e hd ea* and the - t-enn stdl
Dnt NADAD                                                  aTfB onlheshdlotrhhbd B ane   nF,nee orta-n.s'ude
CQ[OMtIAj  /\                              X    TCOBAGo)    130                                            lhsithOldaLsMCLemloW"irnrn:¢L¢vdard'   13-00O
<   <  ~  <  V E N E Z U E L A  JL_s   :                                                59i 30'                                            59525'






