                                            Document of
                                      TheWorld Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIALUSE ONLY




                                 PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT




                                            BARBADOS




                     ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                        (LOAN 2432-BAR)




                                         JUNE 16, 1993




       Department 111
       Infrastructure Division
       Latin America and the Caribbean Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their off~cialduties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                 FISCAL YEAR

                             April 1 to March 31



                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    Currency Unit = Barbados Dollar (BD$)



                                Official Rate




                            WEIGHTS AND MEASURES



          BritishlUS Units                   Metric Equivalent

   1 foot (ft)             =     0.305 meter (m)
   1 mile (mi)             =     1.609 kilometers (km)
   1 square mile           =   .20,589 square kilometers kmz)
   1 pound (Ib)            -     0.454 kilogram (kg)
   1 short ton (2,200 lbs) =     0.907 metric ton (m ton)
   1 long ton (2,240 lbs)  =     1.016 metric ton (m ton)




Abbreviations and Acronyms

AADT          Average Annual Daily Traffic
BPA           Barbados Port Authority
CDB            Caribbean Development Bank
CIDA           Canadian International Development Agency
DOT           US Department of Transportation
EMS           Equipment Management System
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
MFP           Ministry of Finance and Planning
MMS           Maintenance Management System
MTW           Ministry of Public Works, Communications and Transportation
PPO            Policy and Planning Office
TB       Transport Board

                                                  THE WORLD BANK
                                                Washington,D.C.20433
                                                         U.S.A.


Iffice of Director-General
  Operations Evaluation


                                                                                                 June 16, 1993




       SUBJECT8      Project Completion Report on Barbados



                      Attached is the report entitled "Project Completion Report on
       Barbados   - Road  Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2432-BAR)", prepared
       by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office.                         The report includes
       comments by the Borrower (Part 11).               It is informative and comprehensive.

                      This was the first Bank project in transport in Barbados. Objectives
       were to maintain high-priority roads and develop institutional capacities for
       road maintenance.        The focus was appropriate for the country's needs.                      But the
       design overestimated borrower commitment and implementation capacity.

                      As a result, the project took three years longer than planned.
       Misprocurement led to a $2.5 million cancellation and $0.6 million was left
       unutilized when the loan was closed. However, substantial completion of physical
       objectives, a wide range of institutional improvements and successful capacity
       building measures add up to a satisfactory overall outcome.                        Sustainability is
       likely because of the institutional and other progress made under a follow-up
       project (Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project, Loan 3493-BAR).

                      No audit is planned.


       Attachment




           IThis docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recfpients only in the performence ofI
            their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Yorld Bank authorization.


                                                                                    FOR OFFICUL USE ONLY




                                                BARBADOS

                      HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT (LOAN 2432-BAR)

                                    PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


                                         TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                                               Page No  .
Preface ..............................................................                              i
Evaluation Surmnary      ...................................................                        ii

Part I        PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE

     A                                                                                              1
     B Background                                                                                   1
     C Project Objectives and Description                                                           2
     D                                                                                              3
     E Project Implementation
       ..... Project
            Project Identity       ...........................................
                         ..................................................
                                                           ..........................
                     Design and Organization           .............................
                                          ......................................                    5
     F Project Results                                                                              8
     G Project Sustainability                                                                       9
     H Bank Performance and Lessons Learned                                                         9
     I Borrower Performance and Lessons Learned
       ....                      ..............................................
                                          ......................................
                                                               ........................
                                                                     ....................         10
     J Bank-Borrower Relationship
       .                                        ............................                      1 1
     K       Consulting Services       .........................................                  11
     L ..    Project Documentation and Data          ..............................               12

Part I1        PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE

     A . Comments      on Part I of the Project Completion Report                  .........      13
     B                                                                                            14
     C Performance of the Bank
       ..    Performance of the Borrower          .................................
                                            .....................................                 14

Part 111 STATISTICAL INFORMATION

     Related Bank Loans          .............................................                    15
     Project Timetable          ..............................................                    15
     Loan Disbursement          ..............................................                    15
     Project Implementation            .........................................                  16
     Project Financing          ..............................................                    17
     Project Results         ................................................                     18
     Status of Loan Covenants            .....................................                    19
     Use of Bank Resources            .......................................                     20




   This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
   of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                    PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


                             BARBADOS

           ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT

                          (Loan 2432-BAR)




                             PREFACE



     This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project in Barbados financed under
Loan 2432-BAR for USS11.0 million. Loan 2432-BAR was approved on
May 31, 1984, and the project was carried out from 1984 to 1991.
The original closing date, December 31, 1988, was subsequently
extended annually for three years to December 31, 1991. The loan
was not fully disbursed at its closing; on July 13, 1988, the Loan
was reduced by USS2.5 million to USS8.5 million as a result of
misprocurement of which amount US$ 7.9 million was disbursed and the
undisbursed balance of USS0.6 million was canceled from the Loan.

     The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Division Country
Department 111, of Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office.
It is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement,
information gleaned from the project files, and materials obtained
during project completion mission and discussions with the Bank and
the Ministry of Public Works, Communications and Transportation
(MTW) staff who were associated with the project.

     This report contains Parts I and 111 prepared by the Bank and
Part I1 prepared by the Client.    Part I1 reflects the Borrower's
perspective of the project's     implementation achievements and
difficulties.


                                    BARBADOS
                           PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
                  ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                (Loan 2432-BAR)

                               EVALUATION SUMMARY

Obfectives

1.    The Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project, was closely linked with
macro policy objectives to foster economic development through institutional
strengthening and the reduction of transportation costs. As described in the
appraisal report, the project's objectives were to: (i) support the Government's
strategy to preserve rather than expand the country's main network by reducing
the backlog of high-priorityperiodic road maintenance, rehabilitation, resealing
and reconstruction works; (ii) carry out highway safety improvement works at
selected road intersections; and (iii) to improve MTW's capacity and overall
performance in planning, programming, and the execution of periodic road
maintenance and reconstruction works by developing and implementing appropriate
maintenance management systems. (Para 5).

Imlementation Experience

2.    The Loan Agreement was signed on June 14, 1984, and the project became
effective on November 30, 1984. The agreed Project Completion Date was June 30,
1988; the Closing Date of December 31, 1988, was extended thrice at the request
of the Government and with Bank approval, to December 31, 1991. The project's
implementation was slow from its start. MTW was unable to carry out the project
in accordance with the implementation schedule agreed at appraisal (para. 15).
As of June 1988, the original Project Completion Date, disbursements totalled
USS4.9 million, or less than 40 percent of the loan amount. The project took
seven years to complete, or three years longer than agreed at appraisal. Due to
its late start (para. 18), portion of the institutional strengthening program are
being finalized under the on-going Bank follow-on project (para 35).      At the
close of the project, the Bank loan of USS11 million was not fully utilized. The
amount disbursed was USS7.9 million, or 72 percent of the loan.           Due to
misprocurement, USS2.5 million of the loan was canceled from the Loan account,
reducing the Loan to USS8.5 million.    Of this total an undisbursed amount of
USS0.6 million was canceled as it was not needed to complete the project.

3.    The actual project implementationwas at variance with the schedule agreed
at appraisal (para 22).      MTW focused on carrying out civil works giving
insufficient attention to the institutional strengthening program, even though
both components had equal priority ranking, given that successful implementation
of the works program depended on timely implementation of the institutional
strengthening programs.

4.    The implementation delays in carrying out civil works were due to
administrative and technical problems including (para. 23): (i) inefficient
programming of the project's      activities (ii) inadequate preparation of
engineering for the project's works; (iii) M'IW's proclivity for carrying out the
project's works by force account rather than by contract; (v) frequent
postponements of scheduled force account works due to lack of logistic support;
and (vi) delays in land acquisition. The pace of execution of force account
works was hampered by unavailability of much needed equipment that was to be
procured under the project. The monitoring of the quality of the works during
their execution was impaired by the lack of the materials and soils laboratory
(para 24). The establishment of this laboratory was originally scheduled for the

early part of 1985.   Instead, procurement of equipment for the laboratory was
initiated in 1986, concluded five years later, in 1991, and the laboratory was
made operational towards the end of the project, too late for monitoring the
quality of the project works.

5.    The implementation of institutional programs lacked MTW full support during
the first years of the project (para 26).        This delay in contracting the
technical assistance services deprived MTW of the possibility of having in place
the institutions needed for the timely implementation of the project.       As a
result, MTW was unable to achieve all the goals envisaged within the agreed
timeframe of the project (including a three-year extension of the original
closing date).  Full completion of these improvements will be achieved under the
on-going follow-on Second Road Rehabilitation Project.

6.    The implementation of other institutional programs such as accounting and
policy planning suffered from the lack of an adequate level of supervision of
project accounting staff.   The position of accountant has been vacant for some
time and, as a result, the majority of the work load was performed by a small
staff comprising an assistant accountant (acting) and two clerical officers     ,
inadequate to ensure maintenance of effective internal controls (para. 27).
Deficiencies of internal controls were eventually corrected.

Results

7.    The three-year extension of the Closing Date and improved Bank supervision
made possible a substantial completion of the following project components (para.
32): (i) civil works for reconstruction, resurfacing, or resealing of 50 lan of
the road network; (ii) acquisition of maintenance equipment to support MTW's
implementation of force account works and to re-enforce the equipment management
system; (iii) highway safety works for improvements at locations with high
accident rates; (iv) construction of a new workshop.    Substantial progress was
made in the design of the Maintenance and the Equipment Management Systems,
although full implementation was not possible due to time constraints; (v)
strengthening of the Traffic Unit operations. The unit is carrying out a program
of traffic counts and analyses to recommend traffic flow improvements and support
investment analysis; and (vi) construction of a new building for the Materials
and Soils Testing Laboratory, purchase of laboratory equipment, and training of
laboratory technicians.  The laboratory is fully operational and carrying out a
testing program to monitor the quality of all materials being supplied by
contractors and commercial suppliers.

8.    The following institution building activities were initiated and their
implementation is being finalized under the on-going follaw-on transportation
project (para. 33): (i) the development and implementation of the cost accounting
system for construction and maintenance, including a financial information
system; (ii) the strengthening of the Policy and Planning Office, to assist MTW
in setting investment priorities;      and  (iii) full implementation of      the
Maintenance Management   and Equipment Management     systems throughout    MTW's
maintenance depots.

9.    MTW expressed its satisfaction with the establishment of the Maintenance
Management System and the training of MTW personnel in the use of the Benkelman
beam and a Mays Ride Meter to determine the strength and surface roughness of
pavements, both of which are necessary to prepare reliable road condition
inventories. MTW was also satisfied with the establishment of the Materials and
Soils Laboratory stating that "prior to the establishment of the Laboratory
little attempt was made to enforce quality standards which now is being done",
and with the adaptation of computer technology for the processing of MTW,

                                            .
technical and administrative data (para. 34)   As a result of its experience ftom
this project, MTW opted for contracting out all works included in the investment
program financed under the follow-on project and has an on-going pilot project
to test cost-effectiveness of routine maintenance by contract. MTW also reduced
its field and office personnel by 50 percent, from 3000 to less than 1500 by
1991.

Sustainability

10.   The sustainability of all the elements of this first Bank project in the
road transport sector in Barbados is assured given that the Government expressed
interest to proceed with the institutional improvements initiated under the
project and requested the Bank to finance a follow-on project (para. 35).    The
Government's request was approved by the Bank (Loan 3493-BAR, USS20.6 million).

Findings and Lessons Learned

11.   The project's scope was appropriate for the country's needs, but the
implementation schedule was unrealistic. Given that the Bank had no previous
experience working with MTW, it would have been prudent to prepare the project
with more attention to details regarding both the engineering for the works
programs and MTW's commitment to the proposed institutional improvements (para.
36).

12.   The project underscored the need for an uncompromising review of the
project's status of preparation for appraisal by the Bank, notwithstanding any
considerations of project processing deadlines.      An in-depth review of the
engineering prepared by MTW for the appraisal of the project's works program
should have been made by an engineer experienced in road structural design and
construction (para. 36).

13.   The establishment of good communications between MTW and the Bank would
have promoted a better understanding of the project's goals and the importance
of an appropriate sequencing of the project activities consistent with these
goals. According to the Borrower there was a lack of effective communications
between Bank staff and MTW that was partly responsible for the confusion among
MTW personnel working with the Bank for the first time, about the project's
objectives. This affected the project progress during its first four years of
implementation.   An effective dialogue was established in 1987 by a new Bank
supervision team which helped MTW improve the project's progress and achieve most
of the project's goals (para. 41).

14.   An important lesson can be drawn from the absence of dated covenants which
would have facilitated rescheduling of the project implementation around critical
benchmarks, such as the purchase of maintenance equipment and the establishment
of the soils laboratory (para. 42). These benchmarks would have underscored the
interrelationship among key activities, providing guidance for proper sequencing
of the project activities.


                                    BARBADOS

                           PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
                 ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT

                                (LOAN 2432-BAR)


PART I:     PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE


     A.     Project Identity

            Project Name:      Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
                               Project.
            Loan Number:       2432-BAR
            RVP Unit:          Latin America and Caribbean Region
                               Country Department I11
            Country:           Barbados
            Sector:            Transportation
            Subsector:         Roads


      B.    Background

1.    The Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project, the first Bank project in
the transportation sector in Barbados, was designed to provide Bank assistance
to support the Government strategy for preserving, rather than expanding, the
country's network.   During the late 1970'9, the Government's attention was
focused on the development of the port and airport facilities and investments in
the road subsector were minimal. As a result of this policy, the condition of
the road network system had deteriorated. This condition contributed to a low
standard of trafficability and increased road users costs.

2.    The road network required substantial maintenance and some rehabilitation.
With the completion of large investment projects in other sectors, the Government
proposed to implement a Five-Year Investment Plan, (1983-1988), tripling annual
expenditures to be invested in the road subsector to about 22 percent of the
Government's total capital expenditures, and requested IDB, CDB and the World
Bank to help finance the implementation of the Plan.

3.     Responding to the Government's request for financing a part of the
Investment Plan, the Bank pre-appraisal mission visited Barbados in late 1983.
The mission found that although the annual budget allocations for road
maintenance for the fiscal years 1978179 through 1982183 were adequate to
maintain the road system in a "fair" condition, the existing poor condition of
the roads was a result of inefficient use of the budgeted funds, and the lack of
accountability. This assessment was supported by studies prepared by consultants
coarmissioned by the Government. An IDB-financed "Institutional Strengthening
Study" completed by consultants. in November 1983, analyzed the financial,
technical and organizational structure of MTW, and recommended specific
improvementswithin some departments to enhance MTW's overall operations. In the
study entitled "A Review of Road Maintenance and Construction, December 1983",
consultants, reviewed MTW's standard road engineering design procedures and
construction methods, and made recommendations to improve the quality of MTW's
performance in these areas. These recommendationswere in line with the comments
made in the Government's White Paper about MTW's          shortcomings in road
infrastructure planning, cost control, equipment management, personnel training,
materials testing and research.

4.    Both studies recommended, unequivocally, that the quality of engineering
and construction had to be improved without delay.     To achieve this, it was
indispensable to establish a well equipped materials and soils testing
laboratory, staffed with qualified technicians able to determine the strength
characteristics of the materials used in road works and their conformance with
MTW's  technical specifications.      Other required elements included the
establishment of a maintenance management unit to carry out road condition
inventories and prepare road maintenance plans, and the improvement of workshops
and equipment availability.


      C.    Project Objectives and Description

5.    Pro-tect Obiectives. The Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project, was
closely linked with macro policy objectives to foster economic development
through institutional strengthening and the reduction of traffic accidents and
transportation costs.    As described in the appraisal report, the project's
objectiveswere to: (i) support the Government's strategy to preserve rather than
expand the country's main network by reducing the backlog of high-priority
periodic road maintenance, rehabilitation, resealing and reconstruction works;
(ii) carry out highway safety improvement works at selected road intersections;
and (iii) to improve MTW's capacity and overall performance in planning and the
execution of periodic road maintenance and reconstruction works.

6.    Proiect Description. The project comprised three major components:

      (a) Road Kaintenance and Rehabilitation program which was part of a four-
year program (N84/85 -N87/88)and designed to safeguard the physical integrity
of the network by reducing a backlog of deferred road rehabilitation and
maintenance works, totalling about 62.4 km,namely: (i) road reconstruction (29.1
km)ll; (ii) resurfacing (28.8 km); and (iii) resealing (4.5 km)  .   MTW was to
execute 55 percent of the project's works by force account, and to contract the
remaining 45 percent with private contractors. The project also provided for the
purchase of some 72 units of road equipment and vehicles, spare parts and
workshop tools to facilitate the implementation of urgently needed road works by
force account and supported the development and implementation of an equipment
management system to improve overall management of the MTW's equipment and
vehicle fleet.

      (b) Highway Safety program comprising (i) minor realignment works to
improve road conditions and sidewalks at nine different locations,which had a
high rate of traffic accidents; and (ii) the purchase of pavement striping
machines and traffic signs;

      (c) The institutional-strengthening of MTW's       road maintenance and
rehabilitation operations envisaged:     (i) developing and implementing a
Maintenance Management System (MMS) and an Equipment Management System (EMS);
(ii) establishing a Policy Planning Office and a Materials and Soils testing
laboratory; (iii) improving operations within the Traffic Unit; (iv) designing
a data base system for financial management; (v) developing and implementing an
integrated accounting system (IAS) that would include a cost accounting system
for road construction and maintenance, and interface with all MTW's operational
systems. Each system was to be headed by an MTW appointed manager responsible




 L/This was later reduced to 16.7 h,when Highway 2A (12.4 km) was taken out
of the program.

for specific outputs that the system was designed to generate; and (vi)
establishing an internal auditing process.


D.    Project Desipn and Orpenization

7.    Conceptual Foundation. The project was designed to carry out a road works
program that would generate economic benefits to the national economy and help
MTW develop a cost-effective road management system. The program comprised (i)
periodic  maintenance   including minor    drainage improvements,     (ii) road
reconstruction and widening works; (iii) resurfacing with an asphaltic concrete
overlay; (iv) resealing with a bituminous surface treatment; and (v) road safety
works to reduce traffic accidents and to improve pedestrians safety.           To
implement this program efficiently, the project focussed on improvements of MTW's
institutions.    The institutional strengthening program to improve MTW's
management of its human, financial and equipment resources was one of the key
elements of the project. The concept was shared by all relevant parties and was
well understood.

8.    The institutional strengthening program was designed to increase MTW's
operating capacity through rationalization of the use of MTW's financial
resources budgeted for the maintenance and improvement of the road network. The
program aimed at: (i) developing a Maintenance Management System, to plan,
schedule and execute annual road maintenance activities efficiently; (ii)
developing an Equipment Management System to eliminate shortages of spare parts,
reduce equipment downtime, improve workshop production and efficiency, program
and carry out routine and periodic maintenance of MTW's existing equipment and
vehicle fleet, and schedule replacement of economically unserviceable units,
ensuring that equipment would be available to MTW' road maintenance crews when
required; (iii) enhancing MTW's accountability through improvements of MTW's
accounting procedures and auditing standards to evaluate cost-effectiveness of
its operations, and establishment of an integrated accounting system that would
interface with all other MTW-related systems, providing MTW with a management
tool to control its expenditures; (iv) setting up a financial information system
for higher level administrative personnel in the Policy and Planning Office who
would be responsible for the determination of investment priorities in the
transportation sector; and (v) establishing a Materials and Soils Laboratory to
facilitate adequate engineering designs and quality control of road works.

9 .   To facilitate the implementation of the systems,MTW agreed, as a condition
of the loan effectiveness, to recruit the following key staff who would receive
training under the Project: (i) a Deputy Chief Technical Officer to head road
operations; (ii) an Equipment Manager to head Equipment and Vehicle Sections;
(iii) an Engineer to head Materials and Soils Laboratory; (iv) Senior Engineer
to assist in the design and implementation of the Maintenance Management System;
and (v) an Engineer to head the Traffic Unit. Additional key staff including
both the Senior Planning Officer and a Planning Officer for the Policy and
Planning Office were to be retained at a later date, together with the necessary
support staff.

10.   The Training component, to be carried out by internationalspecialists,was
an essential part of the institutional strengthening program. It was designed
to help MTW's personnel develop and implement the Maintenance and the Equipment
Management Systems; improve Traffic Department operations by carrying out
periodic traffic counts and traffic analyses to design traffic flow improvements;
upgrade the skills of MTW personnel in cost accounting, laboratory testing, and
investment planning.

11.   Innovative Aspects. The project provided for a new approach to help MTW
improve accountability for its operations by introducing an integrated accounting
system to assess cost-effectivenessof the funds invested in the project by the
Government. Such an assessment was not practicable using the statutory Vote Book
accounting data format required by Parliament and used by MTW for its Vote Book
entries and Payroll accounting systems. The Vote Book system does not need to
be documented and there are no documented financial accounting policies; it does
not provide day-to-daymanagement informationby project, organizational unit or
function, which requires data suitable to monitor performance, accountability,
budget responsibility, or budgeting data for planning.

12.   The implementation of the proposed integrated accounting system designed
for MTW by consultants,was another key element of the project aimed at improving
the efficiency of investments in the road network. The proposed system was based
on fundamentalprinciples of accountability; adequate disclosure in the financial
statements of all material information; a true and fair view of financial
performance and status presented by the financial statements; a clear definition
in the financial statement of accounting policies adopted; and an independent
review of the accounts and the system.

13.   Prolect Preparation. The central theme of the project preparation included
measures necessary to redress major administrative and technical problems which
contributed to a rapid degradation of the road network, and to establish within
MTW efficient and long lasting institutions capable of delivering to MTW
management viable and cost-effective programs for annual road maintenance and
rehabilitation.

14.   Specifically, the project preparation comprised: (i) engineering for the
road maintenance, rehabilitation and safety works programs, which was prepared
by MTW in the context of the Five-Year Highway Investment Plan. The quality of
the initial preparation was not up to Bank standard and the Bank pre-appraisal
mission requested MTW to update the engineering for Bank appraisal; (ii)
institution-strengthening programwhichwas defined by MTW, based on the findings
and recornmendations of the "Institutional Strengthening Study, November 198311,
prepared by consultants; (iii) identificationof additional units of maintenance
equipment and vehicles to be purchased under the project for MTW's Mechanical
Department, which was prepared by MTW's Mechanical Department with the help of
an outside equipment specialist; and (iv) the Training Component for MTW
personnel designed to address the perceived needs of the Ministry to manage its
operational systems that were to be implemented under the project.

15.   In retrospect, the scope of the project was adequate to address the
country's most pressing needs in the road transport sub-sector; however, the
scheduling of =he project activities was overly optimistic given the known MTW's
institutionalproblems. The project implementation schedule envisaged that about
40% of road works included in the maintenance and rehabilitation program would
be carried out, mostly by force account, during the first six months of the
project (June - December 1984).   At the same time, MTW was expected to procure
maintenance equipment that was badly needed for its force account crews; begin
construction of pedestrian sidewalks; and embark upon the agreed institutional
strengthening program (comprising, among others, the establishment of a much
needed soils and materials laboratory, the improvement of the Traffic Unit, and
initiation of the Maintenance and Equipment Management programs). This workload
was not commensurate with MTW institutional capacity.

16.   Roles and Responsibilities. The roles and responsibilities were clearly
defined during project preparation, stated in the SAR, and agreed by all parties
concerned.

      E.    Project Inmlementation

17.   The Loan Agreement was signed on June 14, 1984, and the project became
effective on November 30, 1984. The agreed Project Completion Date was June 30,
1988; the Closing Date of December 31, 1988, was extended thrice at the request
of the Government and with Bank approval, to December 31, 1991. The execution
of the project was carried out by MTW under the oversight of the Steering
Committee-Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project that was created for this
purpose in August 1984; the Committee Chairmanwas the Permanent Secretary of MTW
who reported directly to the Minister of MTW.

18.   The project's implementationwas slow from the start: as of June 1988, the
original Project Completion Date, disbursements totalled USS4.9 million, or less
than 40 percent of the loan amount. The project took seven years, or three years
longer than agreed at appraisal, to complete the following programs: road
maintenance and rehabilitation works; purchase of maintenance equipment and
vehicles; the establishment of the Traffic Department; and the purchase of
equipment for the Materials and Soils Laboratory. Due to the late start, the
institutional strengthening program was not fully completed and is being
finalized under the on-going Bank follow-on project.

19.   The actual total project cost was BDS27 million, (USS13.5 m), comprising
BDS23.1 million (USS11.5 m) for civilworks and BDS3.9 million (US$2million) for
equipment and technical assistance for the training of MTW's personnel. Some 65
percent of the works were carried out by force account at the cost of BDS15.1
million (USS7.5 million) and the remaining 35 percent, BDS8 million (US$4
million) by a local contractor,under three separate contracts awarded under ICB
procedures.

20.   At the close of the project, the Bank loan of USS11 million was not fully
utilized. The amount disbursed was USS7.9 million, or 72 percent of the original
loan. An amount of USS2.5 million of the loan was canceled from the Loan account
due to misprocurement, reducing the Loan to USS8.5 million. Of this new total
about USS0.6 million remained unused by the closing date, part of which was due
to postponement of some technical assistance to the follow-up operation.

21.     Implementation of basic institutional improvements was necessary to
support the agreed road works program.    In compliance with the conditions for
loan effectiveness, the Government advised the Bank that Road Traffic Amendment
Act of 1984, was enacted on June 4, 1984; and that the following positions were
filled in November 1984: (i) the head of the Construction and Maintenance
division; (ii) the equipment manager and five technicians; (iii) one engineer and
two technicians for the materials and soils laboratory; (iv) a senior maintenance
technician and two technicians for MMS; and (v) one engineer and two technicians
in the Traffic Department. The Government also approved the creation of the
positions of Senior Planning Officer and a Planning Officer, whose recruitment
was reported to be in process.

22.   The actual project implementation was, in general, at variance with the
schedule agreed    at appraisal.      The schedule called      for simultaneous
implementation of the institutional and the works components, both having the
same priority ranking, as the success of the works program depended on the timely
implementationof the institutionalstrengtheningprograms. This interdependence
was evident in the case of the failure to establish the Materials and Soils
Laboratory which precluded carrying out the desirable quality control testing
during the execution of the works to verify their compliance with technical
specifications.

23.   The implementation delays in carrying out civil works were due to
administrative and technical problems including:         (i) MTW's    inefficient
programming of the project's       activities (ii) inadequate preparation of
engineering for the project's works which often required substantial revisions
of the scope of most of the road sub-projects; (iii) MTW's proclivity for
carrying out the project's works by force account to provide employment for its
personnel rather than by contract (only three of the six projects to be executed
under contract were contracted); (iv) poor coordination of force account works
with the works done in the same area- by others (utility companies, etc); (v)
delays due to frequent postponements of scheduled force account works for lack
of logistic support (inadequate availability of equipment, materials, etc); and
(vi) delays in land acquisition.

24.   Progress of the road works program was affected by deficiencies of
engineering designs which were prepared without the benefit of a reliable road
condition inventory. Furthermore,estimates of the works' quantities and related
cost estimates had to be revised to take into account the deterioration of the
roads due to late intervention. As a result of these revisions, the scope and
the cost of the works increased substantially. The needed changes were being
discovered either prior to or while the works were in progress. Nevertheless the
project contingencies were sufficient to cover all cost increases. The materials
recommended for placing in the works were selected based on past experience of
the designers rather than on an objective determination based on laboratory
testing to confirm their suitability for use in construction. In fact, in the
absence of testing of road materials, MTW design engineers had no means to
compare the quality and performance characteristics of locally available road
construction materials with the standards on which MTW's    empirical methods of
pavement design were based, to the detriment of the quality of their engineering.
Finally, the lack of materials and soils testing facilities affected the quality
control of the works executed both by force account and by contractors.

25.   The road works program was reduced from 62.4 km to 50 km as a result of
misprocurement and the Government's decision to finance with its own funds, the
reconstruction works on Highway 2A, (12.4 km).       The project works program
initiated in September 1985 was completed by February 1990.       Procurement of
equipment and vehicles for road maintenance works, equipment for painting
pavement marks and traffic signs was completed but also with substantial delay,
between 1989 and 1991.

26.   The implementationof institutionalprograms lackedMTW full support during
the first years of the project implementation. This delay in contracting the
technical assistance services deprived MTW of the possibility of having in place
the institutions needed for the timely implementation of the project.       As a
result, MTW was unable to achieve all the goals envisaged within the agreed
timeframe of the project (including a three-year extension of the original
closing date). Full completion of these improvements will be achieved under the
on-going follow-on Second Road Rehabilitation Project.

27.   The   integrated   financial accounting    system developed    to  improve
administration and control of the Project was not functioning properly, and the
auditors indicated that a complete review of the system was required. The audit
of financial transactions in FY88189, prepared by external auditors, disclosed
instances of payment vouchers without supporting documents and vouchers which
bore no evidence of authorization; this was subsequently corrected by MTW.     In
their E'Y89190 Audit Report, dated September 1990, the external auditor expressed
concern that there was an inadequate level of supervision of project accounting
staff.   The position of accountant had been vacant for some time and, as a
result, the majority of the workload was performed by an assistant accountant

(acting) with the assistance of two clerical officers. Given such a small staff
it was difficult, in the opinion of the auditors, to ensure maintenance of
effective internal controls.       The Internal Audit Department, previously
established, had been vacant for a period when the Internal Auditor was
transferred to another department. A year later, in their audit report dated
December 31, 1991, the auditors observed similar deficiencies in the internal
control of the project, namely: payroll summaries were not received on a timely
basis to ensure accurate and regular update of individual project card costs, and
a better coordination of work flow between the payroll department and the Project
Office was necessary. These deficiencies were eventually corrected.

28.   Variances in the Im~lementation.The main variance was the departure from
the implementation schedule agreed at appraisal. The pace of execution of force
account works was hampered by the unavailability of much needed equipment that
was to be procured under the project.    Although the resulting delays did not
impede the completion of the works, they had a negative impact on the
implementation of the MMS     and EMS programs designed to strengthen MTW
institutions responsible for logistic support for force account crews. Other
changes in project execution were the replacement of four intersections and one
of the pedestrian sidewalks sub-projectswith three other highway safety projects
that had higher priority, and the elimination of one sub-project from the road
rehabilitation component. Highway 2A ( 12.4 km),was  taken out of the project due
to misprocurement and the works were completed by a contractor with Government
financing. An important variance was the delay in purchasing equipment for the
Materials and Soils Testing Laboratory and the training of laboratory personnel.

29.   Actions Affecting Implementation.       The design of the project was
appropriate and it could have been completed in four years (1984 through 1988),
provided MTW had previous experience with Bank procurement procedures and the
necessary institutional support to implement the project.    During the initial
phases of the project, MTW did not take the required measures to speed up
tendering for equipment and civil works, completion of engineering designs and
training of personnel.   Tne Project implementation was also affected by late
mobilization of managerial and support personnel to carry out institutional
improvements, and by inadequate engineering for the works' program that required
subsequent revisions.    MTW gave low priority to the establishment of the
materials and soils laboratory and instead, focused on the execution of the works
rather than on the agreed institutional improvements program.

30.   Possible avoidance of variances.     Whether the variances of the agreed
program could have been avoided, is a moot point.     Variances could have been
foreseen and avoided given that MTW technical, administrative and operational
problems were known to the Bank from consultants' reports (paras. 3 and 4) prior
to the appraisal in sufficient detail to alert the Bank mission to the need for
adequate safeguards necessary to avoid problems affecting the quality of MTW's
engineering design, and the need to strengthen MTW's institutions.           The
safeguards should have included dated 'covenantsrequiring prompt implementation
of key institutional components. As is common Bank practice in similar cases,
the project should have provided for technical assistance from internationally
selected specialists to: (i) monitor the project's progress, including road
engineering design and construction; (ii) review engineering plans and
specifications prior to initiating the works; and (iii) analyze the adequacy of
MTW' force account construction methods, monitor the planning and scheduling of
MTW's force account works in terms of the logistic support from MTW, that
required timely availability of equipment, vehicles, and the supply of required
materials. Finally, the consultants should have helped MTW in the preparation
of detailed construction reports providing datanecessary for full accountability

for the works, helping MTW with the preparation of detailed unit cost break-dawn
in terms of inputs for labor, materials and equipment.

31.   Given that this was MTW's first Bank-financed project, it is fair to assume
that many of the project implementation difficulties that were experienced might
have been avoided had the Bank staff responsible for the supervision of the
project during the critical initial implementationphase (1984-1987), established
a constructive dialogue with MTW's personnel regarding the project's design, its
priorities and the implementation schedule to put the project on track to avoid
substantial delays (see Part 11, paras. 6 and 7).


      F.    Project Results

32.   The three-year extension of the Closing Date made possible a substantial
completion of the project: (i) civil works were carried out including
reconstruction, resurfacing, or resealing of the programmed sections of the road
network (para. 25); (ii) the purchase of maintenance equipment to support MTW's
implementationof force account works and to re-enforce the equipment management
system was concluded; (iii) highway safety works for improvements at locations
with high accident rates were completed; (iv) construction of a new workshop was
finalized and substantialprogress was made in the design of the Maintenance and
the Equipment Management Systems, although full implementation was not possible
due to time constraints; (v) the Traffic Unit operations were strengthened and
the unit is carrying out a program of traffic counts and analyses to recommend
traffic flow improvements and support investment analysis; and (vi) a new
building for the Materials and Soils Testing Laboratory was constructed, the
required equipment purchased, and the laboratory staff was trained by specialized
consultants. The laboratory is fully operational and carrying out a testing
program to monitor the quality of all materials being supplied by contractors and
commercial suppliers.

33.   The following institution building activities were initiated and their
implementation is being finalized under the on-going follow-on transportation
project: (i) the development and implementation of the cost accounting system for
construction and maintenance, including a financial information system; (ii) the
strengthening of the Policy and Planning Office, to assist MTW in setting
investment priorities; and (iii) full implementation of the Maintenance
Management and Equipment Management systems throughout MTW's maintenance depots.

34.   An important result of the project is mentioned in Part 11 of this report,
inwhich MTW expresses its satisfactionwith the establishment of the Maintenance
Management System to set priorities for road repairs on rational bases; the
training of MTW personnel in the use of the Benkelman beam to determine the
existing strength of the existing pavements, and the use of a Mays meter to
determine pavements' roughness, both of which will permit MTW to assess the
condition of the pavements for the preparation of reliable road inventories. The
usefulness of the newly established Materials and Soils Laboratory was well
appreciated by MTW,   which stated that "prior to the establishment of the
Laboratory little attempt was made to enforce quality standards which now is
being done". Another benefit has been the adaptation of computer technology for
the processing of MTW technical and administrative data.         Finally, it is
gratifying to note that as a result of MTW's experience from this project, MTW
opted for contracting out all works including periodic maintenance, in their
investment program financed under the follow-on project (para. 35), and has an
on-going pilot project to test cost-effectiveness of routine maintenance by
contract. MTW has also reduced its field and office personnel by 50 percent,
from 3000 to less than 1500 by 1991.

      G.    Project Sustainabilitv

35.   The sustainability of all the elements of this first Bank project in
Barbados is assured, since that the Government expressed interest to proceed with
the institutional improvements initiated under the project and requested the Bank
to finance a follow-on project. The Government's request was approved by the
Bank (Loan 3493-BAR, USS20.6 million), and the project is being implemented.
This project provides continuity for the work on equipment rehabilitation and
road maintenance systems, the functioning of the traffic department, reduced loss
of Transport Board; and services of the soils laboratory.


      H.    Bank Performance and Lessons Learned

36.   Preparation and Appraisal. The project's scope was appropriate for the
country's needs, but the implementation schedule was unrealistic (para. 15).
Given that the Bank had no previous experience working with MTW, it would have
been prudent to prepare the project with more attention to details regarding both
the engineering for the works programs and MTW's commitment to the proposed
institutional improvements. It would also have been prudent for the appraisal
mission to follow up on the pre-appraisal's mission request to improve the
engineering design and related costs prior to project appraisal. The project's
files make no mention of any such review of the project final engineering; it is
possible that a review was not made due to the fact that the appraisal mission
was assisted by a competent traffic engineer to help with the establishment of
the Traffic Department, an important but a minor component, but, apparently, did
not include an engineer with experience in road design and construction to
evaluate the quality of the works program that constituted the project's major
component. Another problem was the lack of safeguards that would have ensured
timely establishment of the Materials and Soils Laboratory. Given that most of
the project funds were allocated to road works whose quality control depended on
the timely operation of the laboratory, its establishment was essential for the
successful implementationof the project. To this end, the Loan Agreement should
have stipulated that the soils laboratory would have to be established prior to
a specific date after which the financing of the project's works would be
contingent upon the laboratory being fully operational. The provision would have
made possible an adequate verification of the quality of the works executed by
force account or under contract.

37.   The project's scope and its successful implementation were predicated on
the assumption that the recommended institutional improvements accepted by the
Government, would be made in a timely manner. This assumption might have been
flawed. Prior to the project appraisal, the Bank had limited contacts with MTW's
management, and it would seem that neither the pre-appraisal nor the appraisal
missions had enough familiarity with MTW's interest in the proposed institutional
improvements within the framework of the project.        The inclusion of dated
covenants flagging important institutional improvements and making            the
implementation of the works dependent on their compliance would have alerted MTW
to the need to take appropriate action in a timely manner. In the absence of
such safeguards in the Loan Agreement, putting the project on track was
difficult.

38.   Supervision.   Both field and office supervision of the project absorbed
about 61 staff weeks during the implementation period mid-1984 to mid-1991
period.  Twelve field supervision missions visited Barbados over seven years.
Until the latter part of 1987, the supervision of the project was made mostly by
a traffic engineer and an economist without an apparent participation of a civil

engineer with experience in road design and construction.           The project
supervision reports prepared during the period 1984 through 1986 contained
computerized statistical data on past accomplishments, and recommendations for
future actions by MTW to make up for past project implementation delays. The
reports rated the project's performance as 2, on a scale of 1-3, denoting
problems, without offering an analysis of the problems which caused substantial
implementation delays. There was hardly a reference in the supervision reports
to any field visits to assess the quality of the project's works which were
executed by contract or by force account.

39.   The first mention of the quality issues has been addressed in the Bank's
supervision reports of November 1987,when the responsibility for the project was
transferred to a new division due to the Bank reorganization. The frequency and
the quality of the supervision effort had since improved markedly.           The
supervision missions established a constructive dialogue with MTW, helping to
speed up the conclusion of the project, and generated MTW's          interest in
institutionalimprovementswhichwere accelerated during the period 1988-1991 and
which at the request of the Government, will be finalized under the follaw-on-
going Bank transportation project.

40.   Lessons Learned. The problems experienced during the implementation of the
road maintenance and reconstruction programs underscored the need for a thorough
review of the project's preparation for Bank appraisal. Furthermore, an in-depth
review of the engineering prepared by MTW for the project's works programs should
have been made by an engineer experienced in road structural design and
construction.

41.   As this was the first MTW's Bank-financed project, Bank staff should have
made a particular effort at the beginning of the project to establish a
constructive dialogue with the Borrower.     This would have promoted a better
understanding of the project's goals and the importance of an appropriate
sequencing of the project activities, consistent with these goals. Of special
importance were those aspects related to the institutional issues which had to
be addressed under the project. According to the observations made by MTW in
Part I1 of this report, the dialogue during the first years of the project's
implementation was not effective (para. 6) and the lack of communications caused
some confusion among MTW personnel who were dealing with the Bank for the first
time, about what the project was to achieve. The benefit of such a dialogue
became evident later on after a new     supervision team was sent to review the
project's progress in late 1987. The team established a fruitful dialogue with
MTW which improved MTW's performance and enabled it to achieve most of the
project's goals during the three-year extension of the project's closing date.

42.   An important lesson can be drawn from the absence of dated covenants which
would have induced MTW to reschedule the project implementation around critical
benchmarks, such as the purchase of maintenance equipment and the establishment
of the soils laboratory. Due to a six-year delay in carrying out the related
personnel training programs, the works were carried out without the basic
requirement of quality control and the benefit of having available the necessary
equipment for force account works and a well-trained personnel to service it. The
benchmarks would have underscored the interrelationship among key activities,
providing guidance for proper sequencing of the project activities.

      I.    Borrower Performance and Lessons Learned

43.   Borrower Performance. Initially,MTWwas mostly interested in the purchase
of equipment and vehicles needed for road maintenance, and in carrying out road
works by force account which used up most of the project funds. International

competitive bidding (ICB) method of procurement of contractors for the execution
of the project works was limited to three out of a total of seven contracts that
were originally envisaged (one contract was fully financed by the Government due
to misprocurement).   The scheduling of project's force account works was, at
times, in conflict with on-going works under the responsibility of other
departments of the Government.

44.   At the beginning of the project, MTW support for institutional improvements
was marginal and its performance during that period was not up to expectations,
possibly, because the Borrower was not familiar with Bank procedures (para. 3 of
Part 11). MTW's performance improved markedly since 1989 especially in the
institutional area.

45.   Lessons learned. The Ministry needs to proceed with the modernization of
its institutional structure to improve its responsiveness to the demand for its
technical and administrative services.    It should build upon the initial gains
made under this project, and institute a plan of action to resolve problems
affecting the shortage of qualified personnel and financial accountability. The
project also demonstrated the need to rationalize maintenance of the road
network. This should be achieved by setting priorities and adequate maintenance
standards to increase productivity of maintenance operations for servicing a
large paved network within budgetary constraints.     The rationalization of the
maintenance of the road network is an integral part of the Bank's      follow-on
project.

46.   The project underscored the need for the Ministry to review its role as an
entrepreneur of works, limiting its force account works to minor emergency works,
while contracting out all other works to private contractors, with the Ministry
limiting itself to a supervisory role.        The follow-on project introduces
maintenance by contract and eliminates force account for all investments.
Furthermore, MTW should continue to strengthen its procurement procedures for
international competitive bidding. Procurement under this project was handled
by foreign consultants. Agreement has been reached with MTW on standard bidding
documents and, in the future, procurement will be processed by MTW personnel
trained for this task.

      J.    Bank-Borrower Relationshiv

47.   During the first four years of the project (1984-1988) the Bank-Borrower
relationship was proper but ineffective, if measured by the progress made during
that period.   The relationship has been described in the Borrower's comments
(para. 6 of Part 11) as appropriate, although "initially there appeared to be a
communications problem and a lot of initial confusion stemmed from the fact that
most of the Ministry's officials were dealing with an external agency for the
first time".  This problem was resolved in during the last three years (1988-
1991) when the responsibility for the project was taken over, as result of the
Bank's administrative reorganization, by a new division whose staff established
good communications with the Borrower.


      K.    Consultinn Services

48.   The technical assistancewas provided by external consultants in five areas
of the Ministry's activities identified for help.      These areas included Road
MaintenanceManagement, TransportationDevelopment Planning, Traffic Management,
Workshop and Equipment Management and Materials Laboratory. The objective was
to help MTW develop operational systems and standards which would lead to
improvements in the maintenance of existing roads.

49.   In spite of a late start, the consultants' services were satisfactory and
well received by MTW.     The services for the Maintenance Management System
included: (i) training for MTW personnel in the preparation of detailed road
inventories and needs surveys as means to define maintenance priorities; (ii)
definition of activities and measurements of required works quantities as a basis
for planning and subsequent assessment of work measurement units, and the level
of service to be achieved by way of quality and quantity standards; (iii)
preparation of annual work programs and their scheduling; (iv) developing
maintenance performance standards to assess productivity; and (v) design of a
reporting system covering daily activities. The consultant prepared amanual for
the operation of the system.

50.   The technical assistance for the Equipment Management System was
successfully given by an external expert who provided hands-on-training for the
administrative and workshop personnel in all aspects of equipment management
operations.  The training encompassed topics concerning equipment management,
responsibilities and duties of workshop personnel, equipment operation,
preparation of financial data of equipment inventories, equipment cost history,
formulation of decisions concerning the timing of equipment replacement and
disposal, and a host of other related administrative and technical functions
which were described in the Equipment Management System Manual. The training was
effective and was appreciated by MTW personnel.      Follow-up training will be
carried out under the follow-on Bank's Project at MTW's request.

51.   The objective of the on-the-job training for the materials testing
laboratory personnel was to enable MTW to have total control over the quality of
road and building construction materials used in its projects.      To give the
trainees a thorough understanding of the relationship between the laboratory and
field work the training was conducted in both places including the laboratory
constructed and equipped by MTW during the project implementation. Some MTW key
staff also received overseas training in this area, in international procurement
and in transport planning. Consultants also trained MTW crews in the operation
of the equipment to measure road roughness.

52.   Training for the Traffic Unit personnel was provided by consultants and
involved: (i) traffic and accident surveys to plan traffic flows and safety
improvements; (ii) country-wide traffic data for input to the functional
classification of the road network, and traffic projections for the economic
justification of road investments programmed by the Policy and Planning Office.
The Traffic Unit was also expected to established a computerized Data Bank for
transport planning, including a traffic and vehicle operating costs model for
various vehicle classes and road types.

      L.    Proiect Documentation and Data

53.   Data needed for the preparation of the PCR were generally available in Bank
files, including the project preparation files, Bank supervision reports, aide
memoirs, and the quarterly reports, all of which were helpful.

PART I1 -PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE


     A.    Coments on Part I of the Project Completion Report

1.    The greatest benefits to the Ministry were through the Institutional
Strengthening components. We were able to implement the following:

      i)   Traffic Management Section, with the assistance of FHWA:        One
           officer,   independent   of  the   loan,   obtained   post-graduate
           qualifications and has been able to guide the Section since the
           Consultant has left. Technicians have been trained and one person
           had an attachment to the Department of Transportation. The loan
           also provided a paint marking machine which is used to provide
           markings in primary and secondary roads.

      ii)  Soils and Materials Laboratory.    The Ministry is responsible for
           maintenance of all public roads in the island and generally advises
           the Town Planning Department at the development stage of all road
           projects.   Prior to the establishment of the Laboratory, little
           attempt was made to enforce quality standards. This is presently
           being done.

           Several officers attended training courses at the Georgia Department
           of Transportation and the Laboratory now have a core of competent
           and capable officers .

      iii) Maintenance Management System. The establishment:of this system has
           allowed the Ministry to better prepare for the new World Bank loan,
           since this system allowed us to establish priorities for road
           repairs on a national basis.       While it has not fully been
           implemented in the field, officers have been implemented in the
           field, offices have been trained in the use of Mays Rider and
           Benkelman Beam, and a group of technicians are working continuously
           on the collecting of the data.

           Consequent upon the need to have computer literate persons to
           properly manage the system, the Ministry is now well on its way to
           being fully computerized, with Personal Computers now being
           installed in all of the offices.

      iv)  Equipment Management System. With the help of the FHWA, we were
           provided with a consultant, who established an Equipment Management
           System. This has allowed us to better control the use of vehicles,
           and relate cost of operation.


      V)   Overseas Training.   A number of officers have received overseas
           training and attended seminars.    The most important of these has
           been the I.L.0 Project Procurement Course in Washington.

     vi)   The Ministry also benefitted by the rehabilitation of 6 roads with
           a mileage of 50 km, the junction improvements at 5 areas, along with
           associated drainage and sidewalk construction in residential areas.
           The opportunity was also taken to compare the work of private
           contractors, who did 3 of the 6 road rehabilitations, with the
           Ministry's who carried out all of the other projects.

2.    In general, the Ministry is now able to appreciate the project cycle,
prepare project documents to be used for loans, and have been able to meet with
counterparts and other professionals to share ideas. In addition,we welcome the
transfer of technology which we have obtained.

      B.    Performance of the Borrower

3.    The project was completed in 1992, about two and a half years behind
schedule.   To a large measure, the Ministry's official was learning as we
proceeded with the project and this would suggest that perhaps the project
started one year too early.

4 .   We believe the above to be so, because many of the plans/designs were not
ready when the loanwas signed (unlike the current project) and changes in design
occurred throughout the first 2 years of the project. We also believe that as
a consequence the loan was not executed efficiently during the first 2 year
period.   In addition, our record keeping and report writing was inadequate,
created some problems for Auditors and interfered with disbursements and drawdown
of funds.

5.    However, the computerization of the Ministry, the creation of the I.F.A.S.
Section and the establishing of a post of Project Coordinator, has helped the
performance of the Ministry.

      C.    Performance of the Bank

6.    The relationship of the Bank and the Ministry of Public Works,
Communications and Transportation throughout the project was excellent.
Initially there appeared to be cormnunication problems. To some extent this was
caused by a lack of continuity at M.C.W. since the Project Manager and other
staff were changed and it was not always clear what correspondencewas being sent
to whom and by whom.

7.    A lot of initial confusion stemmed from the fact that most of the
Ministry's officials were dealing with an external agency for the first time.
We believe that the steps which we have taken for the second loan has
considerably improved our comunications and we do not expect similar problems
to occur.

PART I11




  Second Road    Prurrvatian of the capital base       June 1992       On-going    US$21.2 million. Ihe
   Maintenance   of the Borrower's road                                           Loan became efectiw
                 infrastructure; improvement of                                   in October 1992.
 Rehnbilitation  mad maintenanceplanning and                                      Implementation of all
                 practices; reduction of investment                               of the components is
                 costs related to the Borrower's                                  in progress.
                 road network. improvement of
                 road safety; and tramfer of the
                 provision of passenger transport
                 serviccr to theprivate sector.



2. Proiect Timetable




                                                                                                           11
 Reparation Mission       1     November 1983                                        November 1983

 Appraisal Mission             January 16,1984                                      January 16,1984        I1
 Loan Negotiations               April 23, 1984                                      April 23,1984

 Board Approval           1      May 31,1984                                          May 31,1983          II(1
 Loan Signature           I      June14,1984         1                         1      June 14,1984
                                                                               r      ---

 i  n Efictivems          1   Gtember 13.1984        I   October 31.1984           November 30.198411

 Rojecf Completion               June 30,1988           December 31,1992       I   December 31,1989        11

       Loan Agreement.



3. Loan Disbursements
                              C     u    m     u    l   a   t     i    v   t
                                               /US$millionsJ



1Actual                   0.4~        0.6      2.0      4.2        4.7       5.8         7.90        7.9   I


 ')    Ihe &e offtnoldisbursementwas May 6,1992.Ihe deadlinefor disbursementswasrrrended tos t months @er the
       atended Loan Closing Date, December 31, 1991.

4. ~ r oect Implementation
            i




       - Recotutruction




       -Colas Bulk Tanker (1600gal)
       -Chip Spreader flowed)
       -Drop Side Truck (5 Ton)
       -Land Rover Vehicles
       -Tiraring Robr (3.5 Ton)
       Rubber-Wheeled Robr (6 Ton)
       -Front-End Loader (1.5m3)
       -Bitumen Mobil Sprayer
       -Birranen Hand Sprayer


       -Mobile Compressor (2S&j%nin)
       -Unimog wlBacWloe & Shovel
       -Skid SteerM e r
       -Pump(rainwater)
       -Lawn Mower
       -Aspha&Batch Miring Plant
       -Truck w/jack & emuL sprayer




 B. Road Safetv Propram
    i) Improv. trtenections & sidewak:




       - Development  and operation of the
        following systems:




Commcnlr:
 "
         Highway 2A was eliminatedfiom the Project (12.4 bn) due to mirprocurement.
         Five safety subprojects, which becamepart ofthe Bridgetown Trafi Management Study, were eliminatedfiom the
         Safety component of the Project and replaced with three new high priority subprojectr, with Bank's approvaL
 tr)     Thesystems were designed andpersonnel training initiated. Full implementationisbeing complctcd underthefollow
         on Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project, approved by the Bank in mid-1992.
         In addition, an equipment to mearure road roughness (Mays Ride Meter) wpr purchased under the Project in 1991,
         and MTW's staf trained in its operation.

5. Proiect Costs and Financing
                                                       dlh?ka%M
                                                       I%USSmillion)




                     I a
 A. ~ o l r u&. Reh.
   Pr01mJu:                      9.9     &$       L 4

                     I
   - a n 1 w o r k        7.4    8.9     16.2     85.1
   -WPmmr                 0.1    1.0     1.2      6.3

 B. Road Safeq
    f m m            l e . o a , a 2 J

                     I
   - a d 1 w o r k        0.4    0.5     0.9      4.7
   -Eqdpmmr               @I     @I      0.1      0.5




                     lI
 F m Fee                         0)       fbl     0.2
                          O-O

 FNANCINi
     T o i


bus: FI~IVCS not add up to rhc r o d k c a w e 01row
                 may
   Car& &u&de h d c d and prlce contingencies.
*' Denour    m n o ~lrzrs JLOn
                    ~         USSl00,000or .nilm.
  RepCcn eliminotm o/Highwcsy 2Ah m &e Pmjcct (Rank loan reduced by USS2.5million) and changes in the Road Sqfety Program.



                                                B. Project Financing




                                                                                          loam  WLU reduced by USS2.5 m
                                                8.600.0     6,100.0        6,292.1        h m USS11.Om to USSB.5 m.
  2.Equipmat and Vehicles                       1,200.0     1,200.0        1,016.3
  3. Consubnu Fees and Trninng                   350.0         350.0          589.0

6. Pro1act 'Reeults

                                                       A. Direct Benefits




                                 schululing and Ju moniwn'ng of road
                                                                                                                 the program and moniwring

                                 EquipmrmManagonou JLstmc;


                                 and FinuncialJnformcrdon *stem;                    complev~under J ufollowon project.


                                                                                    conrukanr, conducvd Ju economic d u o d o n of all mad
                                                                                    invesnrnu includeaunder thefollow-on project. A
                                                                                    mllrng Five-Year Invesanmt Plun is an inuxtd pan of*


                                 (4) Estublishing a Mar~riakand Soik                (4)Thr Materials and SoiLr Lubo~oy~estublishead
                                                                                    qualie conmlprogram, romUIInetytcsdng Ju qualie of all
                                                                                    mateAoL being suppliedfor road wont..

                                 0)Estubkhing a Troc Unitw carry our                (5) Trcrgicanalyses hclped Ju Govenvnmt WPW
                                 periodic mflc cocmu and an+ses       of n f l c    Icgislotion rr&danng a l e lo&,  and IOimprwr d
                                 ~ a n d a c c i d m r d o t r r .                  invesiment          and engineering.




                                                       B .    Economic Impact

Ihmethdology wedfor Ju economicNoluoa'onof Jupmject orappraisalwasbasedonusrrcartsm'ngscalculorrdasJudwemrcebetween
vehicle opcdng costs wirh and w'thou Ju road impmveinent. Ih noacre of mad investment did nor warrant Ju usc of a sophfsdcated model.
Avemgedaily m     c w h w swere&tcmnruned November1983-lanuy 1984and a growth rateof 5percent was assumed. Ihposr evahdon
                                           in
was carried OW usingthcsenr d l . Costsand mflc assumpti4Nwerereplacedw1.1a c dcaru and mfic damdeunnined a h r cornpledon
of thcproject (1MS1991). WhileJu &cal cast ovepnm of thcprojccr was withinphysical andprice condngencies, he n f l c data showed h
g m r d higher h&   of w.Ihro        v e d economic rates of rrnrrnfor the Road Maintenance and Rehabflicorlon component crdmotcd or
apprrdcal and a&r thc cumpledonof&     project are giwn be&:




                      Owratl Propnwn Evalum'on {SO bn)

                        O v c r o U ~ Rate ofRmcrn
                                           c

7. Statue of Loan Covenants




                                         rrlcvmrt quulificcm'oruand apcritncc to asis; rlu borrower in canying orrt




               Main&na?uc ojadequotr accomts ond rrcordc.

8. Dee of Bank Reeourcee




                                                B. Missions




                                                                   2Ek,IEn, IFa,           n.a.
                                                                        1TrS




Phnwgh ~ecdveness

Supe&on       -




                                         -
  SPC~&&: & = . c M ;En = engineer; Fa     Jnancial &sf;  Trs = transpotradon spcciaIlst;n.a =not applcabk.

"'W ~ If := NOrlflcaiu ptvblmu; 2 = Modrrate ptvblmu; 3 = Majorproblem; 4 = Majorpmblmu not being addressed.

  DP cl/pmbbmr: F    Finadd; M = Mana8crid;P = Aocumnent





