                                                                                IPP132
               COLOMBIA: Social Safety Net project – June 30, 2005

               SOCIAL ASSESSMENT AND INDIGENOUS PEOPLES
                        DEVELOPMENT PLAN (IPDP)

Among the beneficiaries targeted by this project are Colombia’s indigenous and Afro-
Colombian communities. A rapid social assessment was conducted in April 2005 to
identify ways in which the project design should be adjusted to ensure eligible indigenous
and Afro-Colombian families are reached and served by the program in a culturally
appropriate way. The assessment drew from the experience of ethnic beneficiaries
already enrolled in the Familias en Acción program which proved to be a rich resource.
The assessment consisted of:

      A review of relevant documents, including program documents, which enabled
       the team to select 3 municipalities for site visits, as well as legal documents
       regarding the special rights of ethnic minority groups in Colombia.
      Visits to each of the selected sites (Toribío in the Department of Cauca –
       primarily indigenous; Natagaima in Department of Tolima – primarily
       indigenous; Unguía in the Department of Chocó – primarily Afro-Colombian)
       which involved the following activities:
           o Semi-structured interviews with key respondents in the community,
              including the mayor, women leaders and beneficiaries, child and youth
              beneficiaries, employees of the health and educational institutions that
              provide the services, administrative and traditional leaders, and
              organizations that represent these ethnic groups.
           o Group meetings with beneficiaries (with a focus on girls) and their
              mothers.
           o Visits to a sample villages that have benefited from the program.
           o Collection and review of program-related documents at the municipal
              level.
      Analysis of data and preparation of final report with conclusions and
       recommendations, which are reflected in the text that follows.

The assessment was conducted by two Colombian consultants with assistance from three
members of the National staff of the Familias en Acción program.

a) Population Figures for Indigenous and Afro-Colombian Peoples

According to updated National Census data produced by DANE, there are an estimated
785,356 indigenous people living in Colombia, which is equivalent to roughly 5% of the
total Colombian population of 40 million. Indigenous populations are spread out across
the Colombian territory. The chart below provides information by ethnic groups and
Department for some of the larger indigenous groups.

Group                         Department                     Number
Nasa (Paéz)                   Most in Cauca                  96,165
Wayuu                          La Guajira                     94,000
                               Most in Chocó, Antioquia,      50,000
Embera                         Caldas, and Risaralda
Quillasinga                    Narino                         45,600
Senú                           Córdoba                        39,000
Sicuani                        Orinoquía and Amazonía         20,500


According to DANE, there are now 757 reservations in Colombia with a total population
of 744.466 inhabitants. These reservations occupy approximately 27% of the national
territory with a total area of roughly 30 million hectares under title. Slightly more than
5% of the population officially recognized as indigenous live on untitled land.

According to CONPES and to data gathered through the 2003 Quality of Life Survey,
there are 3,448,389 or 8.6% Colombians who are ethnically Afro-Colombian. Other data
presented by organizations studying the Afro-Colombian population (Misión de
observación … 2002) suggests that there are as many as 10.5 million Afro-Colombians,
representing 26% of the total population.

Afro-Colombians are concentrated in coastal areas of the Pacific and Caribbean and are
also present in many of the river valleys where the plantation economy once thrived.
The Departments that currently have the highest concentrations of Afro-Colombians are
Choco (85%), Magdalena (72%), Bolívar (66%), and Sucre (65%). In terms of
population size, the Departments with the largest numbers of Afro-Colombians are Valle
(1,720,257), Antioquia (1,215,985), Bolivar (1,208,181), Atlantico (956,628), Magdalena
(872,633), and Córdoba (801,643).

b) Organizational and Legal Aspects of Ethnicity
The resguardo or reservation is the principal land ownership structure used by indigenous
groups in Colombia. It is defined as “...a legal and socio-political institution made up of
one or more indigenous communities, which hold a collective property title offering them
the same guarantees as private property, possess a territory that is managed by an
autonomous organization with its own set of norms”. (Artículo 21 del Decreto 2164 de
1995) (Ibid. p. 496).

The “cabildo” is both a figure of authority and an organizational structure. The
“cabildo” structure is a local governance body elected by the indigenous community. It
represents the community in transactions with the Colombian state and manages
community affairs, ensuring that national laws and village by-laws are respected. Many
indigenous groups have cabildo federations at the regional, departmental, and national
levels. The three most prominent indigenous apex organizations are the Organización
Nacional Indígena - ONIC, Autoridades Indígenas de Colombia – AICO, and the Alianza
Social Indígena – ASI.

Unlike the indigenous groups, the Afro-Colombian groups do not have traditional
leadership structures, but have drawn their strength from peasant organizations, which
have played an important role in establishing their special status as a significant ethnic
group in Colombia. These peasant groups are developing linkages with urban
organizations representing Afro-Colombians, which is serving to consolidate a national
movement for this ethnic group.

The 1991 Colombian Constitution acknowledges the ethnic and cultural diversity of
Colombia (Article 7) and, for the first time, recognizes that society is made up both of
independent individuals as well as collective subjects. Article 13 of the Constitution
established that the Colombian State must “promote conditions to ensure that equality is
real and effective and adopt measures to favor those groups that have been discriminated
or marginalized.”

Article 55 of the 1991 Constitution, which was further developed with Law 70 in 1993,
opened the possibility of granting a collective title to areas in the river valleys with heavy
concentrations of Afro-Colombians. The law gives “Community Councils” the authority
to manage the land titling process and to regulate social, political, and economic affairs,
including the control of resources, in these areas. Through the combined efforts of these
organizations, Afro-Colombians now hold collective title to more than 3.5 million
hectares of land in Colombia.

The constitutional rights, given to the ethnic groups in accordance with International
Agreements, for the delivery of basic social services such as health care and education,
are principally:

   (i) “Government must ensure that interested indigenous peoples receive adequate
   health care services or that they receive the means to organize, deliver, and control
   these services themselves… (C. 169–OIT. Art.24)”.

   (ii) Law 691 from 2001 regulates the participation of ethnic groups in the Social
   Security System of Colombia, clearly protecting their rights and respecting their
   cultural integrity.

   (iii) “…members of an ethnic group have the right to training that respects and
   develops their cultural identity” (C.P. Art. 68).

   (iv) The Law of Education – Law 115 de 1993 – includes a chapter (III) on Education
   for Ethnic Groups, which serves as a framework for ethnic education. It was
   developed in response to demands by these groups for an education in accordance with
   their culture, language, traditions, and their own organization and articulated with the
   national educational system.

   (v) “Indigenous authorities can exercise judicial functions within their own territories,
   in accordance with their own norms and procedures as long as these are not in conflict
   with the Constitution and laws” (C.P. Art. 246).
     (vi) In the Afro-Colombian areas holding collective title to land, the Community
     Councils are the entities responsible for regulating social, political and economic
     affairs, including the control of resources. (Ley 70 de 1993).


c) The Socio-Economic Status of Ethnic Groups in Colombia

The methodologies used to conduct the poverty assessments in Colombia do not allow for
a systematic analysis of the results by ethnic group. Nonetheless, analysts can cross-
referenced this data with other information that has led to the general belief that there is a
correlation between ethnic groups and high rates of poverty.

In the case of the Afro-Colombians, the existing data document their poor living
conditions. On average, the Afro-Colombian populations have a per capita annual income
of US$500 – 600, compared to the national average of US$1,500. Approximately 74% of
Afro-Colombians receive a monthly salary below the legal minimum of roughly US
$130. The life expectancy of these communities varies between 10 and 30 % below the
national average. For example, in sub-regions like Urabá in the western part of Antioquia
and the Eastern Chocó, the life expectancy of men is only 55, compared to the national
average of 65. In 1993, the percent of Unsatisfied Basic Needs of the Afro-Colombian
population exceeded 80% and the poverty rate was 76.4%, compared to a national
average of 37%.

In both the indigenous and Afro-Colombian communities, there is a high incidence of
illnesses associated with poverty, such as intestinal parasites, acute diarrhea, and TB.
These communities also suffer from high rates of malnutrition. Frequent population
displacements have further aggravated these problems.

Educational levels also tend to be lower in ethnic communities. Some data1 suggest that
the illiteracy rate among Afro-Colombians is 43% in rural areas and 20% in urban areas
compared to the national average of 23.4% in rural areas and 7.3% in urban areas.
According to this data, educational coverage is lower among Afro-Colombian
populations, with 60% of primary school coverage rates in urban areas and 41% in rural
areas, compared to the national average of 87% and 73%.

d) Program Achievements in Ethnic Populations

The Programa Familias en Acción generated a high level of interest among ethnic groups
and appears to have had similar positive impacts on ethnic minority households and
communities as it has in other communities.

While the assessment revealed that the program has generally had a positive impact on
the indigenous and Afro-Colombian beneficiaries it serves, it also found that some
aspects of the program that could be improved in order to have a better impact on
Colombia’s ethnic minority populations.
1
    Defensoría del Pueblo (1997. Page 537 – 538)
Access to the Program: Access to the program is no different for a Colombian belonging
to an ethnic group than for any other person. Beneficiary families must be qualified as
Level 1 of SISBEN, the national targeting mechanism that uses several socio-economic
indicators to categorize potential beneficiaries. This is problematic in indigenous
communities, whose leaders feel that the indicators used by SISBEN are inappropriate for
evaluating socio-economic conditions of indigenous people. They feel that the program
should rely on the local leadership to identify eligible beneficiaries. Furthermore, many
of the indigenous and Afro-Colombian communities were not covered by the SISBEN
when it was applied, due to their geographic isolation and their location in areas affected
by armed conflict. Access to the program was further limited in indigenous
communities, because some local government officials declared that the program was not
for indigenous people.

Non-participation by Eligible Beneficiaries: The assessment found that many ethnic
people eligible to participate in the program based upon their SISBEN ranking, were not
participating. With further analysis, they found several reasons for this: a) the population
was highly mobile, so many eligible families and individuals had already left the area; b)
the eligible beneficiary could not afford the transport to pick up the benefit or did not
understand the procedures due to illiteracy; c) the local authorities in charge of the
program discouraged eligible and interested beneficiaries from participating by creating
unnecessary administrative barriers; d) the local authorities in municipalities did not have
the technical capacity to fulfill all of the requirements of the program

Monitoring System: The MIS for the Programa Familias en Acción monitors the
number of families enrolled in the program and receiving benefits on a month-by-month
basis. The system does not differentiate participants by ethnic group. The inability to
breakdown information by ethnicity makes it difficult to compare performance across
ethnic groups and thus identify potential design problems that are the result cultural
differences.

Limited Impact of Program on Secondary School Enrollment. The program has been
less effective in achieving high enrollment and attendance rates at the secondary level
that it has at the primary school level. This appears to be due to the large distances most
have to go to attend secondary school. This implies high transport and/or boarding costs
that are not adequately compensated by the program.

e) The Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP)

Based upon the findings, the social assessment team recommends the following to the
Familias en Acción Program to improve its performance and impact on ethnic minority
households and communities. It should be note that the recommendations do not address
the broader SISBEN issues since SISBEN is managed outside the program’s realm.
   (i)     It is recommended to expand coverage in Afro-Colombian populated areas,
           particularly in the case of the Department of Chocó based on the new SISBEN
           database.

   (ii)    To ensure higher coverage rates and smoother program operation in areas that
           have significant indigenous and/or Afro-Colombian populations, the Program
           should organize a coordination committee made up of traditional leaders, local
           health and education officials that will meet at least quarterly to discuss
           strategies for achieving high coverage and participation rates and to identify
           any cultural insensitivities or other barriers affecting program success in the
           municipality.

   (iii)   With the purpose of strengthening women’s self-esteem, it is recommended
           that the program integrate a new educational component for beneficiary
           mothers designed to build awareness of their rights and responsibilities as
           individuals, but also explore the cultural origins of the ethnic groups present
           in the area, in an effort to strengthen cultural identity while building greater
           tolerance from members of other ethnic groups. This program component
           should be delivered to all women living in areas with high numbers of
           indigenous and Afro-Colombian people, regardless of their ethnic origin,
           based upon the assumptions that all women need to be empowered and the
           behaviors of both majority and minority women need to be changed if stigma
           against ethnic minority is to be eliminated.

   (iv)    The program should incorporate a question on the enrollment form regarding
           the beneficiary’s ethnicity. This would enable the MIS to track beneficiary
           performance by ethnicity and thus better detect performance problems that
           may be caused by cultural differences and require more culturally sensitive
           program adaptations to correct. The program budget will include some
           funding to finance the analysis of this data through a cultural lens and for
           follow-up work required to define appropriate corrective measures.

Action Plan

A medium term action plan has been developed which will be implemented under the
project, forming part of the project’s overall implementation plan. The plan consists
basically of further studies and the inclusion of some specific actions regarding the
program’s training strategy and improving monitoring of the ethnic beneficiary
population. The following actions are included in the plan which has been agreed upon
with the Colombian authorities:

   (i)     A study to determine the specific needs of ethnic populations to inform the
           program’s expansion. This will include, inter alia, an analysis of the
           indigenous census data, the variables and instruments of targeting, the
           mechanisms for coordination and consensus building and an estimate of the
           potential number of beneficiaries.
(ii)    A study to determine the program’s promotion strategy in areas with
        indigenous and Afro-Colombian populations.
(iii)   Training for municipal staff (enlaces municipales) to become more aware of
        the ethnic population's specific characteristics and their own behaviors toward
        this population group.
(iv)    Promotion of more cooperation of the program with health facilities,
        particularly in the program’s training activities (encuentros de cuidado).
(v)     The program will initiate a process of internal data collection and analysis that
        will allow it to differentiate between families of the different ethnic groups.
        This will be done initially by geographic area. In addition, the impact
        evaluation of the pilot in urban areas will include this topic and analyze data
        in accordance with ethnicity.
