                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank

                               FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                            ReportNo. 38242-CO




                                        PROJECTPAPER

                                              ONA

                     PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING (LOAN)

                         INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$104.8MILLION

                                            TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

                                             FORA

                               SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT
                                           (LN.7337)



                                        February 15,2007




HumanDevelopmentSectorManagementUnit
Colombia andMexico Country ManagementUnit
LatinAmerica andthe CaribbeanRegionalOffice


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World
Bankauthorization.

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective (February 5,2007)


                       Currency Unit = Colombian Peso
                      2,400 Col pesos = US$1
                        US$0,000408    = 1Colombianpeso

                                FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1   - December31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CCT
co    Conditional Cash Transfers
      Colombia
DAPR  Administrative Department of the PresidentialOffice incharge of the Investment
      Fundfor Peace
FIP   InvestmentFundfor Peace (Fondo de Znversidnpara la Paz)
FMR   Financial Monitoring Report
FSL   Fixed-Spread Loan
FY    Fiscal Year
GDP   Gross Domestic Product
IBRD  International Bank for ReconstructionandDevelopment
IADB  Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank
LAC   Latin American and the Caribbean
SOE   Statement of Expenditures




                      Vice President:      Pamela Cox
                     Country Director:     Isabel M.Guerrero
                      Sector Director:     Evangeline Javier
                      Sector Manager:      HelenaRibe
                   Task Team Leader:       Theresa Jones

                                                                                                            FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY


                                                      COLOMBIA
         AdditionalFinancingfor ColombiaSocialSafetyNet Project (Ln. 7337)

                                                      CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                          Page

I. Introduction........................................................................................................................ .5

11.   Background and rationale....................................................................................................          5

111.  Proposedchanges ........................................................,......,,...............................................6
     A. Implementationarrangements

IV.   Consistency with CAS.........................................................................................................         8
     A. Economic and FinancialAnalysis
      B. Technical Analysis
     C. Fiduciary Analysis
     D.Safeguards

V.    Appraisal of Scaled-up Project Activities ...........................................................................                 8

VI.   Expected Outcomes ..........................................................................................................          11

VII.  Benefits and Risks .............................................................................................................      11

VIII. Financialterms and conditions ..........................................................................................              12

E. AllocationofLoanProceeds                .............................................................................................    12




                                                                   3


                                        COLOMBIA
        Additional Financing for Colombia Social Safety Net Project (Ln. 7337)



                                PROJECT    PAPER    DATA  SHEET

Date: February 12, 2007                            Team Leader: TheresaJones
Country: Colombia                                  Sector Director: EvangelineJavier
Project Name: Social Safety Net                    Sector Manager: HelenaRibe
Project ID: PO104507                               Country Director: Isabel M.Guerrero
                                                   E n v i r m o r y : C
Borrower: Republic of Colombia
Responsibleagencies:
DAPR-Acci6n Social -FIP, Presidency
Diego AndrCs Molano Aponte, Technical Director
Calle 7 No. 6-54, Piso4, BogotB, Colombia - Tel. 57 1352 6600
Ministry of Social Protection
                                                  .571 330 5000
Revised estimateddisbursements(Bank FY/US$m)
FY                2007            2008
Annual            30
Cumulative      I 30            I 75
                                  104.8         1                I

Bankpolicies?


Revised project development objectives/outcomes:
The original project development objective remains the same: To strengthenthe country's social
safety net by consolidating and expanding the successfulFamilias en Accidn Conditional Cash
Transfer programand improvingthe monitoring and evaluation of the country's safety net
portfolio.
Key outcome indicators remain the same; targets are revised to reflect the additional 400,000
beneficiaries to be reachedthrough the additional financing.

                                  For Additional Financing
[X 3 Loan      [ ] Credit   [ ] Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
        Total Bank financing (US$m.): 104.8
        Proposedterms: Fixed Spread Loan (FSL) with 13 years maturity


                     Source                           Local         Foreign             Total
Borrower                                           40.3                            40.3
IBRD                                              104.8           0                104.8
Total                                             145.1                            145.1



                                               4


I.Introduction

This Project Paper seeks the approvalof the Executive Directors to provide an additional loan in
an amount of US$104.8million to the Republic of Colombia for the Colombia Social Safety Net
Project (Ln. 7337-CO).

The proposed additional loan would help finance the costs associated with the further scaling-up
of activities in order to enhance the impact of this well-performing project, startingearly in2007,
sooner than hadbeen envisaged when the Project was prepared and negotiated. N o changes are
proposed to the designor implementation arrangements of the Project. The Additional Financing
would continue to finance conditional cash transfers to poor families linked to compliance with
key human development conditionalities. These include: a) assuring that children 0-6 have all
vaccinations and growth monitoring controls, accordingto the Ministry of Social Protection
protocols; and b) assuring that children 7-17 years of age are enrolled in schools and regularly
attend classes. The Additional Financingwould enable the Programto expand the current
number of beneficiaries (nearly 600,000) to about 1million by financing the associatedbi-
monthly transfer payments to poor families. The Bank loan would continue to be usedto finance
only those households targeted using the proxy means instrument (Selection System of
Beneficiaries of Social Programs -SISBEN Level l),     while national resources would be usedto
finance beneficiaries who are displaced persons, individuals affected by violence (not included in
the figures above).

Partnership arrangements: From the outset in 2001, the World Bank and the Inter-American
DevelopmentBank (IDB) have been supporting the Familias enAccion programjointly. The
first IDBproject supporting Fumilias enAccion has recently closed, but both the World Bank
and the IDB would continue to work with the Colombians on the development of future projects
to support the implementation of a strategy to alleviate extreme poverty, which would be linked
to further scaling up and other enhancements to the Farnilias en Accion Program.

11.Backgroundand Rationalefor AdditionalFinancinginthe amountof $104.8 million

Project Design: The original loan (Ln.7337-C0), inthe amount of US$86.4 million was
approved November 1,2005, andbecame effective January 20,2006. The project's
development objective i s to strengthen the country's social safety net by consolidating and
expanding the successful Familias en Accion Conditional Cash Transfer program andby
improving the monitoring and evaluation of the country's safety net portfolio. The Project was
intended to support the Farnilias en Accion Program to expand from 340,000 to 400,000 families
by piloting the CCTs inselected marginalizedurban areas, and expandingit to highpriority
zones affected by violence.

The Additional Financingsupports the activities under the first component -the consolidation
and expansion of the Familias en Accion Program. The resources would be used solely to
finance transfers (and the associated bank fees) to beneficiary families. Implementationof the
Project, includingcompliance with its loan covenants i s satisfactory. The outcomes and results
recorded inthe most recent supervision report are either consistent with or exceed the
expectations set out inthe Project Appraisal Document. Ratings since effectiveness of the


                                                 5

Project on January 24, 2006, have been consistently satisfactory or better. As of October 2006,
the Government had expanded the Program to cover 847 municipalities. There were 582,000
beneficiary families (selected usingthe proxy means instrument - SISBEN, Selection System for
the Selection of Beneficiaries), compared to the target of 400,000 families set out in the Project
Appraisal Document. The Program has been extended as planned into 40 new municipalities,
including 3 municipalities without banking services which tested (successfully) a strategy of
payingparticipants through banks located in nearby towns. The Program i s piloting activities in
3 large cities, but it i s too soon to judge the results. Inaddition, nearly 100,000 displaced
families are benefiting from the Program, financed entirely by national resources.

Reasons for the Additional Financing: The additionalresources are neededinorder for the
Government to scale-up further the Familias en Accion Conditional Transfer Programto enhance
development impact, starting April 2007, sooner than had been envisaged when the Project was
prepared and negotiated. When the Colombia Social Safety Net Project was negotiated in mid-
2005, the amount of financing reflectedthe decision of the Government not to assume that the
Programwould necessarily continue after the 2006 elections. Inany event, the Government of
President Uribe won reelection and has decided to expand the Program. The goal for the scale-
up is about 1.2 millionbeneficiary families by mid-2007, includingdisplaced (200,000) and
those targeted with SISBEN (1million), an increase of roughly 70%.

Additional financing for the activities i s the best available mechanism at the current time to meet
the request of the Government. The World Bank and the IDB are working with the Colombians
on the development of a Programto support the implementation of a broader Government
strategy to alleviate extreme poverty, which i s likely to buildupon the base of Familias en
Accion, but further work i s needed on the design of that intervention. Also, more experience
with ongoing pilot programs time is neededbeforedeciding on possible changes indesign for
Familias en Accion which should be incorporated when the Programmoves to a greater extent
into large cities. Inthe meantime, the Government does not want to delay the scaling-up inthe
areas of the country where the Program i s currently operating and has had good results. This
expansion would broaden the Program's demonstrated impact and development effectiveness.
As of February5,2007,90 percent of the resources of the Project have beendisbursed, and
projections show that remainingresources would be virtually exhausted by the anticipated
transfer payments to be made inFebruary 2007, with the exception of the small amount of
resources allocated to the second component of the Project. Without additional financing, there
would be insufficient funds to make the full amount of payments due inApril 2007.

111.ProposedChanges

The Project's development objective to strengthen the country's social safety net by
consolidating and expanding the successful Familias en Accion ConditionalTransfer Program
and by improving the monitoring and evaluation of the country's safety net portfolio would not
change. There are no major changes planned inthe design of the Program. The scope would
increase from the 340,000 families in the Program (2004) to 1million. The expansion for which
the Additional Financing i s being requested by the Government of Colombia would continue to
use the SISBEN as the targeting instrument. Over the last year, this information has been
updated for a large part of the population. The updating incorporated modifications to the
previous formula, as well as several important administrative improvements. The latter include


                                                     6

more supervision and monitoring of visits to households, consolidation and auditing of database,
and some cross-checks both internally to eliminate possible duplications as well as with other
databases.

The goal of nearlyl.O millionbeneficiary families targeted using the SISBEN i s made up of the
following:

        (1) in 220 municipalities, the continuedparticipationof 222,000 families who have been
registered over 2005-2006, already usingthe updated SISBEN;

        (2) in 640 municipalities, the continued participation of 205,000 families who were
registered for the Programusingthe older version of the SISBEN, but who have maintainedtheir
eligibility usingupdated information, as well as an estimated 460,000 new families qualifying
based on the updated SISBEN; and

        (3) the extension of the successful pilot of arranging for banking services innearby towns
in 167 new municipalities without bankingfacilities themselves, where about 100,000 families
would benefit.

Inaddition, the Government intends to doublethe number of displaced families participating in
the Program, from the current level of about 100,000, usingtheir own resources.

The key performance indicators which relate to the quality of the Program would be unchanged.
Institutional arrangements remainthe same as described inthe Project Appraisal Document.

ImplementationArrangements for the Additional Financing: All implementationarrangements
would continue to be the same as under the Project. The implementing agency for Familias en
Accion would continue to be the Administrative Department of the Presidential Office incharge
of the Investment fund for Peace (DAPR-Accion Social -FIP). The agency has the capacity to
manage the larger Program. First, this scale-up continues, albeit at an accelerated rate, the
expansion of the Programwhich has been taking place since the pilot started in2002. Second,
84 percent of the expansion would take place inmunicipalitieswhere the Programi s already
operating. Third, since payments are handled through the banking system, an increase inthe
number of beneficiaries i s not expected to pose problems. Infact, the banks will gain as the
agreements set a fee per payment. Fourth, the rules for municipal participation inthe program
will not be changed. Municipalities must guarantee the availability of the pertinent healthand
education services before entering the Program. Inaddition, they mustprovide the appropriate
number of staff to coordinate the Program (set by a formula based on the number of families in
the locality) and guaranteethe necessary working conditions for them. Finally, the Program has
a well functioning monitoring and evaluation system which would be able to accommodate the
scale-up.

All of the additional resourcesrequestedwill go to finance all or part of the estimatedbimonthly
payment cycles of April, June, August, and October 2007, after which the funds would be
exhausted. The estimated value of payments for the first 3 of these cycles i s US$30million and
for October (once the scaling-up i s achieved) would be nearly $50million. Thereafter, financing



                                                  7

would be providedby a proposed loan from the IDB, currently under preparation, and to a lesser
extent, by nationalresources. The Project would continue to be implemented according to
procedures defined inits OperationalManual. Arrangements for financial management,
disbursements and procurement remain as inthe Project, with the exception of the authorized
amount for the Special Account. Inview of the scaling-up, its amount would increase to US$30
million. The December 31, 2007 closing date would not be modified.


IV. Consistency with CAS

The proposed activities are aligned with the current Country Assistance Strategy for Colombia,
approved inDecember 2002, and with the CAS update, presented to the Bank's Board in
September 2005. Inparticular, the expanded activities would contribute by (i) the fruits
                                                                                       sharing
of growth by providing a strengthened social safety net to those who are not benefitingfrom the
renewed growth; and (ii)    contributing to further economic growth by investing inthe education
and health of today's poor children; and (iii)  the fourth pillar added in the CAS update of
buildingthe foundations of peace, through support for the expansion of the Familias enAccion
Programto displaced persons (financed through national resources). The proposed expansion
would heightenthe Program's contribution to poverty reductionby increasing both the number
of poor families receiving the cash transfers and the number of children benefiting from greater
investments intheir education and health.

V. Appraisalof Scaled-upProjectActivities

    A. Economic and FinancialAnalysis

The economic impact of the Program i s expected to increase given the expansion in the number
of households participating. With the expansion supported by the Additional Financing, the
Programwould grow by roughly two-thirds, reaching 1million households (about 400,000 more
than currently) targeted usingthe SISBEN instrument.

The most recent results from the Program's experimental impact evaluation' (taken from the 2nd
roundof data collection in 2005/2006) show significant improvements of children's food
consumption (reducing chronic malnutritionby approximatelyten percentage points) and
immunizationrates, as well as school attendance (particularly in secondary school). Based on
the impact evaluation results, the expansion of the Programsupported initially by the proposed
Additional Financing i s expected to contribute substantially to poverty reduction and investment
inhumancapital.

       Raisingschool participation. The Programhas been shown to increase attendancerates
       for secondary school by 7 percentage points inrural and 5 percentage points inurban
       areas. For primary school (where baseline attendance rates are higher), the impact i s still
       positive, but reduced - less than 1percentage point for urban and 2 percentage points for
       rural areas. The Program also has a similar positive impact inboth urban and rural areas

1 Summary Presentation of second phase of the Impact Evaluation of the Familias en Accion Program (IFS and
Econometria Consultants, October 2006).



                                                   8

        inreducingthe number of years of lag due to both starting school late andrepetition. In
        all, the benefits inadditional years of education are estimated to translate through
        expected higher labor earnings to a net present value gain of US$148 million and a cost
        benefit ratio of 1.5.

        Reducingmalnutrition. The Programhas been shownto increase birthweight and to
        improve nutrition levels of children which also would increase projected adult earnings
        capacity. This translates approximately into a combined net present value gain of about
        US$112 million and a positive cost benefit ratio of 1.7.

        Other gains. The Programalso hasbeen shown to increase preventivehealth visits,
        vaccination coverage and reduce the incidence of diseases. There are positive impacts as
       well on consumption, particularly inrural areas. The impact on consumption i s reflected
       inhigher food (proteins) consumption, and inadditional spending on children. There is
       also an increase in the probability that the households inthe Programpossessdurable and
       productive goods

The fiscal impact of the expanded Programi s manageable. For 2007 the Programwould cost
roughly 0.2% of GDP. The increase inthe number of households benefiting from the conditional
cash transfer would have both a direct and indirect cost impact on the budget of the DAPR-
Accion Social-FIP, which is managing the program. Of these, about 75 percent will,be
externally financed and the remaining 25 percent will be financedby domestic sources.

       B. TechnicalAnalysis

International and Colombian experience shows that CCT programs can be effective mechanisms
for reducingpoverty and inequality in the short run, and provide incentives for humancapital
development which can further reduce poverty and inequality inthe long run. The experience
with CCT programs shows that there are key elements that have to be inplace andmonitored
carefully to guarantee their success:

       An accurate system for identifying and selecting the targeted population. Inthe case of
       Colombia, this i s done through the national targeting system, SISBEN. Over the past
       year the householdinformationinthis system has been updated and additional
       improvements made to improve the quality and reliability of the registry.

       Clear operational procedures, intensive coordination with all involvedentities, including
       local agencies, and intensive training of staff and beneficiaries inrights and
       responsibilities.

       Financialchecks and balances, including internal and external audits, periodic checks on
       procedures and social accountability mechanisms.

       A well balanced andtimely monitoring system to predict and adjust to any bottlenecks in
       the system, complemented by impact evaluations that periodically inform about outcomes
       and impacts.




                                                 9

The design of the Colombian Familias en Accion Programi s of highquality. Inaddition,
improvements are planned, for example, modifications in registrationprocedures in order to
increase the share of eligible families signing up for the Program. There i s a goodbalance
between centralized management of the overall Program and outsourcing some elements
(payments to participants). Inparticular, co-administrationby local governments has enabled the
Programto maintain low operational costs (around 5%) and highcommitment at the local level.

     C. Fiduciary Analysis

The financial management system to be usedunder the proposed Additional Financingi s the
same as that usedunder the Ongoing Project. Basedon performance under the OngoingProject,
the financial management system and other arrangements for the Project are considered
satisfactory. Loan withdrawal applications for grants, will be supported by SOEs prepared based
on the list of eligible families prepared andreviewedby the program team. Inline with the
anticipated pace of expansion of the Program, the authorized amount for the Special Account A
would be increased to $30 million. The DAPR-Accion Social-FIP will continue to prepare
FinancialMonitoring Reports (FMRs) on a semi-annual basis. The overall Financial
Management Risk associatedwith the Project continues to be rated as "moderate". Procurement
arrangements will be carried out by DAPR-FIPstaff, who are well versed in procurement
procedures. No additional procurement i s involved inthe Additional Financing, as the total
amount will be allocated to transfers to participants in the Familias enAccion Program. There
are no outstanding external audit reports

    D. Safeguards

The expansion of the coverage of the Program would not raise the environmentalcategory of the
Project which was classified as C. There are no unresolved safeguard problems. The project
triggered the safeguard policy relating to indigenous peoples. The October 2006 supervision
missionreviewed progress on the action plan. The management of the Programhas transmitted
to the Bank municipal data containing information regarding indigenous participants inFamilias
en Accion. The Bank team reiterated inthe aide-memoire prepared at the end of the October
2006 supervision visit, the recommendationof the action plan that the new registrationform
incorporate a question regarding the beneficiary's ethnicity.

The additional financing would not lead to any new safeguard issues beyondthose of the
ongoing project, but in the new areas of project expansion (167 municipalities), the new
Indigenous Peoples Policy (OP 4.10) would apply. There are 28 municipalities which contain
indigenous communities for which OP 4.10 would apply. Inaddition, the scale-up would expand
Programcoverage inAfro-Colombian populated areas as 53 municipalities have a majority of
Afro-Colombian population. The Government has decided to expand the planned study intended
to develop a programstrategy for ethnic populations with special focus on the program's
promotion activities, targeting procedures, training needs and payment procedures by adding a
test of its recommendations in 3 pilot areas inorder to develop a special annex for the
operationalmanual. The scale-up does not involve any exceptions to Bank policies.

The study described inthe paragraph above would incorporate a consultation process around the
overall approach and framework, to ensure that issues of culturally appropriate benefits and


                                                 10

 broadcommunity support are includedinthe project activities. The Government andthe Bank
 will update the ongoing project's Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP)by disclosing a
 document containing the following informationby mid-March:

        The contents of the conceptual and technical elements of the terms of reference of the
        study to be undertaken, its principal activities, and schedule.
        Criteria for the selection of the indigenous communities inwhich the pilots will be
        carried out and detailed analysis of the population composition of the 167 new
        municipalities.
        Inregardto the Afro-Colombian communities, adescriptionof the promotionstrategy as
        well as the progress on training which the programi s currently carrying out. .

The results of the consultations will be publishedinApril prior to the initiation of the pilots. The
Bank will supervise the process of access in the program for Afro-Colombian populations and
will monitor the progress on the study and the application of the pilots inorder to ensure the
 applicationof OP 4.10. Once the findings of the pilots are available, the IPDP will be updated
and issued as an Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP) as per OP 4.10.


VI. Expected Outcomes

The proposedAdditional Financingwill benefit some 1.O million poor families in Colombia who
will receive transfer conditional on their compliance with the education andhealthrequirements.
The key performance indicators will be the same as inthe Project, as these focused on the quality
of the Program and are expected to be maintained. In addition, the numbersof families
registered will be monitored, as well as those complying with the conditions and thus receiving
the transfers. The main expected outcomes include short-run improvements inthe welfare of the
households participating inthe Program (higher consumptionlevels and reduced poverty) and
long-run gains inhumancapital formation for the childreninthese families (improved education
and health levels).

VII. BenefitsandRisks

The most recent results of the impact evaluation (based on survey data from 2005/2006) confirm
the previous findings for the Program of gains in education, particularly for secondary school.
The Programwas found to have increased attendance rates by 7 percentage points inrural areas
and 5 percentage points inurban areas. Inaddition, there were improvements in the health and
nutrition status of children, as well as gains infood consumption (especially proteins),
particularly inrural areas. There was also a redistributionof expenditures towards those related
to children (education and clothing). This evidence confirms the continued positive costhenefit
ratio for Program spending. The scaling up that would be supported under the Additional
Financingposes no additional risks, other than those which were identified for the Ongoing
Project and for which mitigation measureshave been successfully taken duringthe course of its
implementation.

At the request of the Office of the RegionalVice-president for the LatinAmerica Region, the
adequacy of the control and accountability mechanisms inthe Familias en Accion Program


                                                  11

recently was reviewed along with other Conditional Transfer Programs inthe Region supported
by the Bank (Controland Accountability Mechanismsin ConditionalTransfer Programs:A
SpecialReview of Programs in LAC,August 2006). The findings were positive for the
Program. Lines of authority and accountability are well-defined and aligned. Targeting results
have been good, and there has been a recent recertification of eligibility according to the
SISBEN, the results of which would be usedinthe expansion early next year. Appeals
processes, as well as social accountability mechanisms are well established inthe Program.
Compliance with conditionalities i s being verified sensibly and payment processes are subject to
good controls. A regular program of operational audits i s usedby Program management to
improve implementation. The findings of previous audit reports have been positive. The
proposed expansion i s not expected to substantially increase risks. One, the expansion will be
based on a recertification of the proxy means instrument, the process of which benefited from
technical assistance from the Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank. Second, the expansion will
continue the control and accountability mechanisms which have proveneffective, inparticular
use of the SISBEN for targeting, explicit agreements between the Programand local
government, and operational audits which would provide timely information on implementation
experience.

Inordertoensurethat fiduciary andaccountabilityrisks continue tobewellmanagedinthe
scaled-up Program, during supervision the Bank would review the results of the periodic
operational audits as well as the results of registrationby municipality (Le. the share of potential
families registering), and other disaggregated Program indicators (% of families complying with
conditions and 9%of families being paid), service indicators on payment processes (no. of
payments returned, complaints about payments) and no. of appeals, and undertake spot checks
of the experiences of the Citizen Oversight Committees at the municipal level.


VIII. FinancialTermsAnd ConditionsFor The Additional Financing

The Republic of Colombia has selected a fixed-spread loan (FSL) inU.S. Dollars, (remaining
financial terms to be to be added once the loan worksheet has been received). The selection
reflects the State's preference for contracting loans which permit the matchingof its asset and
liability management objectives.

IX. Allocationof LoanProceeds

                             Amount ofthe LoanAllocated(Expressed          % of Expendituresto be
                                        inmillionsof Dollars)                      financed

Category

(1)GrantsunderPartA                              97.3                                100%

(2) OperationalCosts                              7.5                                100%
underPart A

Total                                            104.8




                                                  12

