                                               Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                   FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                  Report No. 31880-CO




                                PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                  ONA

                                           PROPOSEDLOAN

                              INTHE AMOUNT OFUS$86.4MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

                                                 FOR A

                                  SOCIAL SAFETYNET PROJECT



                                             October 3, 2005




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Colombia-Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only inthe performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                              (ExchangeRateEffective September 2005)


                                   Currency Unit = Colombian Peso (COP)
                                       COP 2,200      = US$l
                                  US$0.0003854 = COP 1

                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                       January 1      - December31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AICO       IndigenousAuthoritiesof Colombia (Autoridades Indigenas de Colombia)
APL        Adaptable Program Lending
ARS        InsuranceCompaniesof the Subsidized Regimefor the Poor
AS1        Indigenous SocialAlliance (Alianza Social Indigena)
CAF        Andean Cooperationfor Development(CorporacidnAndina de Fomento)
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CCF        Family Compensation Funds (Cajas de Compensacion Familiar)
CCT        ConditionalCash Transfer
CONPES     NationalCouncil of Economic and SocialPolicy (Consejo Nacional de Politica Econdmica y
           Social)
DANE       NationalAdministrativeDepartmentof Statistics (Departamento Administrativo Nacional de
           Estadistica)
DAPR-      Administrative Department of the PresidentialOffice incharge of the InvestmentFundfor Peace
ACCION     (Departamento Administrativo de la Presidencia de la Repdblica- Agencia Presidencial para la
SOCIAL-FIP Accidn Social y la Cooperacidn Internacianal- Fondo de Inversidnpara la Paz -FIP)
DEPP       EvaluationDepartment of DNP (Direccidn de Evaluacidn de Politicas PLiblicas)
DGP        PlanningDepartment of the Ministry of SocialProtection(Direccidn General de Planeacidn y
           Ancilisis de Politica Sectorial)
DNP        NationalPlanningDepartment (Departamento Nacional de Planeacidn)
DPT        Diphtheria, Pertussis,Tetanus (immunization)
ECD        Early ChildhoodDevelopment
EPS        InsuranceCompaniesof the Contributory Regime
ESW        Economic and Sector Work
FIAL       ProgrammaticFiscal and Institutional Adjustment Loan
FIP        Investment Fundfor Peace (Fondo de Inversidn para la Paz)
FMRs       Financial Monitoring Reports
FONADE     NationalFundof DevelopmentProjects (Fondo Nacional de Proyectos de Desarrollo)
FY         Fiscal Year
GDP        GrossDomestic Product
GOC        Governmentof Colombia
HCB        Community ChildCareCenters (Hogares Comunitarios de Bienestar)
IADB       Inter-AmericanDevelopmentBank
IBRD       InternationalBank for Reconstructionand Development
ICB        InternationalCompetitiveBidding
ICBF       ColombianInstitute for Family Welfare (Instituto Colombian0 de Bienestar Familiar)
ICR        ImplementationCompletionReport
IDA        InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
IFAC       InternationalFederationof Accountants
IPDP       Indigenous Peoples' DevelopmentPlan
IPS        HealthProviders
ISS        Social Security Institute (Instituto de Seguridad Social)

M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation                             FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY
MADR         Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (Ministeriode Agricultura y Desarrollo Rural;
MDG          Millennium Development Goal
MED          Ministry of Education
MHCP         Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (Ministerio de Hacienda y Crkdito Pliblico)
MIS          Management Information System
MSP          Ministry of Social Protection (Ministerio de Proteccidn Social)
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NDP          NationalDevelopment Plan
NGO          Nongovernmental Organization
O M          Operational Manual
ONIC         National Indigenous Organization (Organizacidn Nacioizal Indigena)
PAG          Pay-as-you-go (PAG) pension system
PARS         IADB financed `*HealthReform Support Program" (Programa de Apoyo a la Refornza en Salud)
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
PDO          Project Development Objectives
PHRD         Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PLaRSSAL     Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Structural Adjustment Loan
RAS          Social Safety Net (Red de Apoyo Social)
RSS          Social Solidarity Network (Red de Solidaridad Social)
SBD          Standard Bidding Documents
scs          Social Control System
SECAL        Social Sector Adjustment Loan
SENA         National Training Program (Sewicio Nacional de Aprendizaje)
SIGOB        Management System for Governance (Sistemade Gestidnpara la Gobemabilidad)
SIGPROY      MSP's Project Information System (SistemaGeneral de Proyectos)
SIIS         Integrated Information System of the MSP (SistemaIntegrado de Informacidn en Salud)
SIL          Specific Investment Loan
SINERGIA     National System for Result Evaluation (SistemaNacional de Evaluacidn de Resultados de la
             Gestidn Pliblica)
SISBEN       Selection System o f Beneficiaries o f Social Programs (Sistemade Seleccidn de Beneficiarios de
             Programas Sociales)
SOEs         Statement of Expenditures
SPS          Social Protection System
TAL          Technical Assistance Loan
TORS         Terms o f Reference




T h i s document has a restricted distribution and may b e used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not b e otherwise disclosed


                                                                                           FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY
                                               COLOMBIA
                                    Social Safety Net Project

                                               CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                              Page
A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE................................................................................... 1

  1. Country and sector issues
  2.  Rationale for Bank involvement
  3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION...............................................................       ...................................................  6

  1. Lending instrument                                                                                                                         6
  2. Project development objective and key indicators                                                                                           6
  3.  Project components                                                                                                                         7
  4. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design                                                                                         10
  5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                                                                                          11


C.  IMPLEMENTATION .............................................................................................    ........................... 11

  1. Partnership arrangements                                                                                                                   11
  2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                                                                              11
  3. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results                                                                                              14
  4.  Sustainability                                                                                                                            14
  5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects                                                                                          16
  6. Loan conditions and covenants                                                                                                              19

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY................................................................................................................. 19

  1. Economic and financial analyses                                                                                                            19
  2. Technical                                                                                                                                  20
  3. Fiduciary                                                                                                                                  20
  4. Social                                                                                                                                     21
  5. Environment                                                                                                                                22
  6. Safeguard policies                                                                                                                         22
  7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness                                                                                                            22

Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background .............................................................................. 23
Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies ........................................                                    34
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring............................................................................................                  37
Annex 4: Detailed Project Description........................................................................................................          43
Annex 5: Project Costs................................................................................................................................ 47
Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements ....................................................................................................              50
Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements ...........................................................                                54
Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements .........................................................................................................            62
Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis ...............................................................................................                66
Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues.............................................................................................................         72
Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision ......................................................................................... 79
Annex 12: Documents in the Project File ...................................................................................................            81
Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits.................................................................................................              82
Annex 14: Fumilius en Accio'n Evaluation: Methodology and Main Results .............................................                                   84
Annex 15: Colombia's Monitoring and Evaluation System (SINERGIA) .................................................                                     93
Annex 16: Colombia at a glance .................................................................................................................       96
Annex 17: IBRD Map 33388 ......................................................................................................................        98

                                               COLOMBIA
                                   SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT
                                 PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

Date: October 3, 2005                                   Team Leader: Andrea Vermehren
Country Director: Isabel Guerrero                        Sectors: Other social services (20%); Primary
Sector Director: Evangeline Javier                      education (30%), Secondary Education (25%),
                                                        health (25%)
                                                         Themes: Other human development (P);Other
                                                         social protection and risk management (P);Child
                                                         health (S);Other public sector governance (S)
Project ID:PO89443                                      Environmental screening category: Not Required
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan            Safeguard screening category: Limitedimpact
( S L )

[XI Loan     [ ] Credit     [ ] Grant   [ ] Guarantee         [ ] Other:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 86.40
Proposed terms: Fixed-SpreadLoan                                                   Front-end fee: 0.25%
Grace period (years): 8.5
Commitment fee: 0.85% on undisbursed loan balances for first 4 years, 0.75% on undisbursed
loan balances thereafter, beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Initial choice of interest rate: The borrower selected to maintain the variable rate.
Type of repayment schedule:
[ X ] Customrepayment schedule, with level principal payments; at six-monthLIBOR
I1linkedtoDisbursement




RECONSTRUCTIONAND                                I                    I                   I
DEVELOPMENT(IBRD)
Total:                                                     92.73                 0.00               92.73
Borrower: Republic of Colombia


DAPR- Accidn Social - FIP, Presidency
Responsible Agencies:

BogotB, Colombia
Diego Andrks Molano Aponte, Technical Director RSS-FIP,
Calle 7 No. 6-54, Piso 4 - Bogota D.C., Colombia
Tel: (571) 352 6600

Ministry of Social Protection,
BogotB, Colombia
Ramiro Guerrero Carvajal, Technical Vice-Minister
Carrera 13, No. 32-76 - BogotB, D.C., Colombia - Tel: (571) 3365066

;Y              05/06     06/07     07/08
4nnual           30.00     55.00       1.40
Zumulative       30.00     85.00     86.40




Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Ref. PAD 0.7                                                                               [ ]Yes [XI No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                               [ ]Yes [XINO
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                               [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Ref. PAD C.5                                                                               [XIYes [ ] N o
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?Ref.
PAD D.7                                                                                    [ X]Yes [ ] No

Project development objective:
The project development objective i s to strengthen the country's social safety net by consolidating and
expanding the successful Familias en Accidn Conditional Cash Transfer program and improving the
monitoring and evaluation of the country's safety net portfolio.
Project description
The project consists of two components:
Component 1. Consolidation and expansion of the Familias en Accidn program to 400,000 families by
including extreme poor families in marginalized urban areas as well as highpriority zones affected by
violence; and
Component 2. Improving the monitoring and evaluation system of the Ministry of Social Protection
(MSP) inorder to better track and critically review the country's social safety netportfolio.
Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any?
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any: N/A

Board presentation: November 8, 2005

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Country and sector issues

For decades, Colombia sustained positive growth rates and declining poverty rates, which
abruptly ended with the 1999 recession. Sound fiscal policy and skillful macroeconomic
management laid for years the foundations for persistent annual GDP growth at 3-4 percent that
led to job creation, household income growth, continuous reduction in poverty and inequality,
and improvements in human development indicators as shown by increasing school enrollment
rates and access to social services. But by the mid-l990s, weak fiscal controls and external
shocks resulted in the accumulation of large public debt and a decline in economic growth. The
economic crisis that hit the country in 1998-99 and the subsequent years of poor economic
performance had large negative effects on the population. A decade of progress in poverty
elimination was reversed and poverty rates rose, particularly in urban areas where the incidence
went up by 7 percentage points inthe same period. Inequality also increased with the crisis.

Colombia's weak social protection system was not able to manage the social crisis. During
the years of prosperity, social insurance and safety net programs emerged in an ad hoc manner to
address specific needs of certain segments of the population, leading to fragmentation of
programs, poor targeting of services, competing incentives, and general inefficiency. Economic
growth was largely considered as sufficient to meet most social demands. When the economic
crisis hit in 1999, the government was not well prepared to meet the emerging social demands
and was unable to quickly build a response mechanismdue to fiscal restraint.

In response to the crisis, an emergency social safety net - the RAS - was created. It was
intended to mitigate the impacts of the crisis over the poorest population until 2005. The R A S
was composed of three programs: (i)    Familias en Accidn, which i s a Conditional Cash Transfer
(CCT) program that provides cash to poor households in rural areas conditional on school
attendance of school-aged children and visits to health facilities and participation in nutritional
programs for younger children and their mothers; (ii)      Empleo en Accidn, which was a self-
targeted public work program; and (iii)     Jdvenes en Accidn, a youth training and internship
program. All three programs were originally managed by the Fondo de Inversidn para la Paz
(FIP) under the direction of the Presidency of the Republic and funded through Bank (Familias
and Empleo) and Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) loans. The implementation of the
R A S was accompanied by strong monitoring and evaluation initiatives in order to assess the
relative effectiveness of each program.

The star performer of this triumvirate i s the Familias en Accidn program. Impact evaluations
showed that participants in the Familias en Accidn program consume larger quantities of protein
and dairy, are taller and heavier, have higher rates of vaccination, and have higher school
attendance than comparable non-participants (see annex 16). Similarly, the participants in the
Empleo en Accidn program were found to have higher incomes than comparable non-
participants, and display fewer of the coping strategies that have long term costs, such as selling
off of assets.

The crisis also forced the Colombian Government to re-think Colombia's social sector
strategies, both to increase efficiency in the fiscally challenged environment and to build a


                                                 1

social protection system that could cope with the new reality of macroeconomic instability.
Important reforms included:

         To improve the supply of social services, the decentralization law 715 in 2001, linked
         federal transfers to states and municipalities to outputs.

         To enhance the priority for social development, the National Development Plan for
         2002-2006 devotes two of its four main lines of actions to these objectives.

         To contain fiscal expenditures, a pension reform law was enacted in December 2002 and
         June 2005.

         To reduce the cost of hard-to-employ workers, GOC enacted the labor reform law 789
         inlate2002, which also introducedother socialprotectionand assistanceprovisions.

         To improve results management and transparency in government expenditures, the
         Presidency launched the SIGOB and significantly improved its coverage and quality
         since 2002.

Perhaps the most important reform was the creation of the Ministry of Social Protection
(MSP) in 2003 with the mandate to increase transparency and efficiency of the social protection
system and its agencies. The Ministry was created by consolidating the functions of the health
and labor ministries with the aim of unifying under its purview different social protection
institutions and functions, including health care, pensions, training programs and social
assistance. The MSP i s currently the most important agency in the social protection system. It
supervises two large social protectioninstitutions: the ICBF, which provides social programs and
services for children, youth and elderly, and SENA that manages the national job training
program. The creation of the Ministry also paved the way to reduce duplication of programs and
functions, leading to an improvement in the effectiveness of social assistance programs and
objectives.

Also important was the reform for strengthening and consolidating the Performance-Based
Monitoring and Evaluation System - SINERGIA which included the introduction of new
web-based publicly accessible information tools such as the SIGOB, and the quantifiable goals
and accountability reports where the country's progress toward the Government's National
Development Plan goals i s tracked (for more details, see annex 15). The SIGOB and the printed
accountability reports allow for any person to monitor the rate at which the goals are being met
and highlight for policymakers those areas that need more attention, in order to meet the
development goals. While the SIGOB i s centrally managed and validated by the Department of
Evaluation of Public Policy (DEPP) in DNP, it consolidates the information provided by the line
ministries and implementing agencies. This requires, however, that ministries' and agencies'
information systems are able to generate adequate outcome information for reporting to SIGOB
together with outputs and financial M&E data to carry out sound planning, policy making and
budgeting at the sector and agency levels. This i s still a challenge, particularly for the Ministry
of Social Protection (MSP) which i s responsible for several institutions (ICBF, SENA, etc.) and
programs that have operated relatively independently for many years. The MSP i s not able to
sufficiently monitor and evaluate outcomes of these programs because there i s a lack of adequate


                                                  2

information to evaluate the social protection system and its programs, a lack of adequate
monitoring indicators to track the performance of the system, insufficient well-trained staff inthe
areas of monitoring and evaluation, and uncoordinated and partial monitoring and evaluation
systems, some of them with programs that pursue similar objectives but are operating in different
ways and agencies. The development of an integrated results based M&E system within the
Ministry of Social Protection will be crucial both to contribute more effectively to
SINERGWSIGOB,and for the ministry's leadership.

Even though Colombia has been emerging from the severe economic crisis, many social
challenges remain. On the positive side, GDP growth reached 3.7 percent in 2003 and 4 percent
in 2004, up from a meager 1.6 percent in 2002. With inflation contained and external reserve
accumulation continuing in 2004 the country i s better prepared to deal with vulnerability.
Unemployment decreased from 18 percent in January 2002 to 17 percent in January 2004 and
13.2 percent in January 2005-and        poverty rates declined by about 4 percent, with larger
declines in rural areas (6.5 percent), between 2002 and 2003. The extreme poverty rate declined
even more by nearly 18 percent between 2002 and 2003. On the negative side, Colombia
continues to suffer from high levels of poverty and unemployment. Many children remain
vulnerable to malnutrition and illness and, while substantial resources are spent on health and
school feeding programs, a high proportion of families still do not have access to good quality
basic health care services.     Moreover, Colombia continues to lag behind other competitor
countries in the level and quality of education and training, undermining its prospects for greater
long term competitiveness and growth.        Finally, Colombia's internal violence continues to
consume a large portion of the budget and leads to social strife, by displacing thousands of
citizens from their homes which increases the need for an adequate social safety net as part of a
broader social protection system.

The Government is inthe process of strengthening the social protection system. For the past
year, the Government has been developing a strategic vision for the country's development inthe
next 15 years, which i s known as "Visidn Colombia 2019." Social protection and the Familias
en Accidn program inparticular, figure prominently in this strategy, with the expectation that the
CCT program will expand from its current level of 340,000 beneficiary households to 1.4 million
beneficiary households in 2019. Also, a Poverty Commission was created in the DNP, with the
mandate of exploring more deeply how the Government can reduce and respond to the needs of
the population. Finally, the Ministry o f Social Protection itself, having been created recently, i s
undertaking a strategic planning process that entails: (i)reviewing the current system; (ii)
identifying and prioritizing the social insurance and social assistance needs o f the Colombian
society; (iii)identifying a strategy to update the existing system to better serve the population in
an efficient manner; and (iv) implementing said system. Access to quality information about its
own programs will be a crucial input to the Ministry's process.

Expanding the successful Fumilius en Accio'n program and improving the monitoring and
evaluation system of the MSP are the GOC's two immediate priorities for strengthening
the country's social safety net.      Given the great success of the Familias program and its
important role inthe future Social Protection System, the GOC has confirmed its commitment to
institutionalize the program. Over the next 15 years, the conditional cash transfer program i s
expected to play a key role in achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) related to
nutrition, education, and poverty reduction. To reach the 1.4 million families goal by the year


                                                 3

2019, the GOC i s starting the transition now. Between 2005 and 2007, the GOC intends to
expand the Familias program to households living in high priority zones affected by violence, to
those that do not have access to the banking system, as well as to those living in marginalized
urban areas, reaching a total of 400,000 households (and over 1 million children and youth
beneficiaries). During this transition phase, the Government also intends to define the future
institutional home of the program and sustainable funding sources to finance the program to
ensure that it becomes a permanent component of the social safety net. Finally, to better identify
how and where to incorporate Familias into the larger social safety net, the MSP - in charge of
developing the social protection system - will improve the M&E system that will allow the
government to track service delivery, budget, and impacts of its social safety net programs. This
information i s a key input to the re-design of the current system and to the on-going results
management necessary for efficient and effective service delivery.

In this context, the authorities have requested technical and financial support from the World
Bank to support the transition of the Familias en Accidn program towards its new dimension and
to strengthen the monitoring and evaluation capacity of the MSP.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

A long history of Bank involvement inthe development of a Colombian social protection system
predates the proposed Social Safety Net project. The Bank was a key partner in the development
of the R A S (Red de Apoyo Social), through an operation to support the creation of the Familias
en Accidn program (CO-7050) and another to support the Empleo en Accidn program (CO-7017).
It also worked with the Pastrana Administration to develop a strategy for the larger reform of the
system, culminating in a Sector Adjustment Loan (SECAL, CO-7134), which supported the
reform process in the social sectors and contributed to smoothing the transition to the new Uribe
Government.      In the first year of the Uribe Government, the Bank supported policy and
legislative reforms in the labor, education, training, Early Childhood Development (ECD), and
health sectors via the First Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Structural Adjustment Loan
(PLaRSSAL I).     The PLaRSSAL I1supported the further implementation of the labor and social
sectors reform agenda, as well as a new focus on a systematized M&E system for the social
sectors (for details, see annex 2). Recently, the Government has requested a PLaRSSAL 111, for
even further support to the Government's social and labor reform agenda.

The Bank has also been an active partner in the strategic and institutional development of the
Ministry of Social Protection. In addition to the PLaRSSAL I,in which the creation of the
Ministry was supported, a PHRDgrant and a Technical Assistance Loan (TAL, CO-29332), have
been instrumental for the Ministry to undertake a series of studies and strategic planning
exercises with the goal of identifying a new comprehensive social risk management system. The
four phases of the process are: (i)    identify how the current social system i s organized, its
strengths, and its weaknesses interms of coverage, efficiency, and service delivery; (ii) an
                                                                                         design
optimal social assistance and social insurance system, given the needs and constraints; (iii)
develop a process for moving from the old to the new system; and (iv) implement the new
system. The PHRD studies have been completed and map out the current system. The TAL was
declared effective on March 17, 2005, and the Ministry i s in the process of planning the specific
next steps for the development of the strategy.       In addition, the Bank has undertaken an
analytical agenda to support the Government, including the "Colombia Social Safety Net


                                                 4

Assessment" of August 30, 2002 (No. 22255-CO) and the report on "Public Training Reform
Issues in Colombia" (No. 27752-CO).

The proposed Social Safety Net project, which was agreed upon during the 2002 Colombia CAS,
would continue the Bank's support to Colombia's social protection reform agenda, as requested
by the government.

The rationale for the Bank's further participation in the development of the social
protection system in Colombia is based on four main factors. First, the Bank would support
the expansion and prepare the institutionalization of the successful Fumilius en Accidn program
which the Colombian authorities have identified as an important component in the
comprehensive social risk management system that i s under design. The operation would
provide important support for the preparation of the transition of the program during the last year
of the current administration, with a view to advancing its long term institutionalization. Second,
financing the Fumilius program during this transition phase and improving the M&E of the
overall safety net system will provide the authorities with the necessary information and time to
define sustainable and possibly countercyclical financing sources for the strengthened social
safety net. Third, the proposed operation would help strengthen the institutional role of the MSP
as the lead agency of the social safety net as part of the broader social protection system. The
MSP will play an increasingly significant role in reviewing the social risk management
instruments and consolidating the system. Strengthening its ability to monitor and assess the
effectiveness of social protection programs, would not only allow a more informed debate on the
social risk management system, but also strengthen the coordination role of the MSP in this
sector. Fourth, the proposed operation would build on a series of successful Bank initiatives
(investment and policy development operations, ESW, and technical assistance, see annex 2) in
the social protection sector that seek to strengthen the risk management capacity of the
government to address poverty and vulnerability.

The Bank's sustained support for the Government's reform agenda. The Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Colombia, approved in December 2002, identifies three pillars:
economic growth, buildingquality government, and sharing the fruits of growth. This operation
contributes to the CAS objectives by: (i)sharing the fruits of growth by providing a strengthened
social safety net to those who are not benefiting from the renewed growth; (ii)      contributing to
further economic growth by investing in the education and health of today's poor children; and
(iii) qualitygovernmentthroughthedevelopmentofanM&EsystemintheMinistryof
     building
Social Protection, which will allow for more efficient and effective social risk management
among the population and accountability of the Ministry's actions.

In addition, the CAS update, presented to the Bank's Board in September 2005, includes at the
request of the Government of Colombia a new pillar IV for "Building the Foundations of Peace".
The proposed project i s linked to this pillar since it supports the expansion of the Fumilius en
Accion program to prioritized areas previously affected by violence from illegal armed groups,
thus providing an avenue for excluded poor populations to benefit from the country's safety net.
Also, the improved M&E system of the safety net will provide more systematic information
about inclusion and coverage of vulnerable groups.




                                                 5

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

The proposed project i s at the center of the core pillars of the Bank's CAS for Colombia:
building quality government, reducing poverty and reducing inequality ("sharing the fruits of
growth") and i s closely linked to the CAS Update's new pillar for building the foundations of
peace. In addition, it i s aligned with Bank's and GOC's priorities of achieving the Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs): The project will contribute to the reduction of poverty, hunger and
malnutrition (MDG 1: e.g., the current Familias en Accidn program, which will be strengthened
and expanded under this project, has reduced extreme poverty of beneficiary families by 6%, and
has had measurable impacts on child malnutrition) and inequality in the short- and long-term
through sustained human capital accumulation of benefiting children and youth. The project will
also have significant effects on achieving universal primary education (MDG 2), reducing child
mortality (MDG4), and improving maternal health (MDG5) through the demand-side incentives
it provides for investments in education, nutrition and health for infants, school children and
youth (for details, see annex 14).

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lending instrument

The lending instrument is a Specific Investment Loan (SIL). A SIL i s the most appropriate
instrument for the project because it builds on the Human Capital Protection S I L approved on
March 1, 2001 and adds a component to strengthen the Ministry of Social Protection's capacity
to monitor and evaluate the existing safety net interventions. This operation will support the
Familias en Accidn program during its transition phase to a larger, second generation CCT
program that i s firmly embedded in the country's strengthened social safety net, to which the
project contributes. The project will support the ongoing process of strengthening the MSP as
the key coordinating agency of the social safety net as part of the broader social protection
system. The project i s expected to fully disburse within two years (due to Familias' regular, bi-
monthly payment cycles), and it i s envisioned to continue the Bank's support for the Conditional
Cash Transfer Program once the program's long-term institutional home and financing, both
issues to be analyzed under this project, are decided upon.         This staged approach seems
appropriate because it provides sufficient flexibility to make the necessary and envisioned
adjustments to the program's operations (see C.2.) and related longer term policy question
regardingits role as part of the country's social protection system.

2. Project development objective and key indicators

The broad objectives of the Social Safety Net project are to strengthen the GOC's capacity to
reduce poverty and inequality and promote human capital investments among poor (see annex 3
and 4). The project development objective i s to strengthen the country's social safety net by
consolidating and expanding the successful Familius en Accidn Conditional Cash Transfer
program and by improving the monitoring and evaluation of the country's safety net portfolio.

The operation would support the Fumilias en Accidn program to expand from 340,000 to
400,000 families by piloting the CCTs in selected marginalized urban areas, and expanding it to
high priority zones affected by violence. In addition, it would help the Farnilias en Accidn


                                                  6

program to transition into a second generation, long-term social assistance program with well
defined entry and exit as well as graduation strategies, adjusted to the diverse regional areas
(urban/rural) and population groups (ethnic groups, disabled, etc.), as part of a modern social
assistance and social service system that better serves the poorest and most vulnerable population
groups of Colombia. B y supporting the design and implementation of an integrated results based
M&E system and a comprehensive framework to introduce impact evaluation and social
accountability in the MSP, the project will help ensure coordination between the different
agencies operating in the social protection system and provide information for better program
design. This includes a partnership between MSP and DNP on monitoring and evaluation to
follow national development guidelines and standards as defined by SINERGIA.

Key performance indicators for tracking progress towards these objectives are listed in Table 1
below and inannex 3.

        Table 1.Key Performance Indicators for Monitoring Progress Over Period Covered
                                              OUTCOMEINDICATORS


0   At least 40% of benefits of Familias en Accidn programgoing to bottomquintile of the population.

    A1least 70% of SISBEN 1families covered inparticipating municipalities.

0   At least 80% of primary-age school-age children inextremely poor beneficiary families attending school at least
    80% of time.

0   At least 95% of beneficiary 0-6 year old children with completed growth monitoring and health check ups, according
    to MSPprotocol.

0   Publicly available information on the coverage, financing, and impact of key social safety net programs managed by
    the MSP and its affiliated institutions.

    At least 50% of social safety net programs of the MSP and at least two of its affiliated organizations are included in
    the M&Esystem.



3. Project components

Component 1: Consolidation and expansion of the Familias en Accio'n program to 400,000
families by including extreme poor families in marginalized urban areas as well as high
priority zones affected by violence (US$91.33 million, of which US$85 million are financed by
IBRD and US$6.33 million by counterpart funding). The project would disburse cash transfers
(grants) to poor families linked to compliance with key human development conditionalities.
Under the current Familias en Accidn program these include: a) assuring that children 0-6 have
all vaccinations and growth monitoring controls, according to the MSP protocols; and b) assuring
that children 7-17 years of age are enrolled in schools and regularly attend classes.

The CCT program i s in the process of increasing its coverage from 340,000 (2004) to 400,000
families (2005/06). This expansion would be done through the inclusion of several new target
groups:

 (i)      Urban Municipalities: Fumilias will be piloting its implementation in marginalized
          urban areas, initially in the municipalities of Cartagena, and BogotUSoacha. The pilot


                                                         7

         experiments with the level of benefits (adjusting it to the needs of urban areas and
         differentiating the amount by school level), adjusts training content and times, seeks
         synergies with relevant local organizations, and works intensively with local
         governments asking them for more substantive contributions.         This pilot is being
         accompanied by a rigorous impact evaluation managed by DEPP-DNP.

  (ii)   Rural municipalities: Furthermore, the program i s expanding into 40 new municipalities.
         These include 7 regional capitals of less than 100,000 inhabitants that were previously
       ` excluded because they were capital cities; 30 rural medium and small municipalities in
         high priority zones that have a commercial or private Bank available commit to
         providing the necessary health and education facilities; and 3 rural municipalities
         without a formal banking system, in which the program will pilot the hiring of banking
         services offered inneighboring municipalities ("caja extendida").

In addition, the Government, through its Social Solidarity Network (Red de Solidaridad Social)
i s exploring the possibility of extending the Conditional Cash Transfers mechanism to 100,000
displaced families across the nation working through the national registry of displaced persons
(Registro Onico de Poblacidn Desplazada) established in the Presidency. This expansion would
not be financed under this project, but by government funds and others.

Of the US$ 85 million loan financing, US$ 84.75 million will finance conditional cash transfers,
covering 5 bimonthly payment cycles of on average US$ 17 million between December 2005
and December 2006. The remaining US$250,000 would be used for strengthening the technical
capacity of the implementing agency for the improvement of the technical design of the program,
in view of its eventual transition into a long-term social assistance program.         In addition,
Government would provide US$ 6.33 million of counterpart funds for operational costs, training,
monitoring and evaluation (e.g., the pilots), internal and external auditing, and other related
studies.

The implementing agency for this component would be the Presidency's Agency for Social
Action and International Cooperation (DAPR-Acci6n Social- FIP). This agency was created by
Decree 2467 on July 19, 2005, merging several operational units of the Presidency, including the
Fondo de Inversidn para la Paz (FIP) that operated under the Red de Apoyo Social which
implements the ongoing "Human Capital Protection" project.           In parallel, Government is
working on a proposal to find a permanent home for the future CCT program since Familias en
Accidn was initially set up in the Presidency as a short term crisis response mechanism only.
Now that a decision has been taken to make the CCT program part o f the country's social
protection system and therefore continue it in the long term, several scenarios for its institutional
home are being discussed and analyzed. A decision on this topic i s expected for 2006.

Component 2: Improving the monitoring and evaluation system of the Ministry of Social
Protection (MSP) in order to better track and critically review the country's social safety
net portfolio ($1.4 million).      This component will support MSP's mandate of increasing
transparency and efficiency of the social safety net and its various implementing agencies by
establishing an integrated results-based M&E system in the Ministry that provides
accountability, an objective assessment of social policies and programs, and continuous feedback
for the design of social safety net programs inColombia. Specifically, the operation will:


                                                8

    (a) Strengthen the relationship between outcome indicators and budget allocation in the
    social areaby creating an integrated results basedM&E system that will allow for tracking of
    social spending at the national and local levels; measuring the impacts of the spending; and
    reporting these results to the Government, via the SIGOB tool that i s administered by DEPP-
    DNP, to allow for better decision-making across government.

    (b)   Strengthen the MSP's institutional capacity to evaluate its current programs by
    implementing a strategy and a process for government-civil society interactions, data
    collection, and contracting of independent technical evaluation institutions.

    (c) Improve transparency and accountability in the MSP by creating a process for public
    dissemination of the spending and results system, thereby not only fostering transparency but
    also enhancing governmental accountability.

This component would finance the initial planning and piloting of the MSP's integrated results
based M&E system. The implementation of the system will follow the Bank's method for a
Result Based Monitoring and Evaluation System (Kusek and Ray, 2004), which has been
implemented in Mexico and Chile. Specific activities include: (i)     an institutional assessment to
analyze the capacity of MSP and its agencies in carrying out evaluation and monitoring including
data collection, analysis, and reporting; (ii)     the development of a strategic plan for the
establishment of a sustainable integrated M&E system, including the key indicators to be
measured; (iii) key government officials to implement, use, and benefit from an M&E
                 training
system; (iv) build a consistent information platform accessible to the MSP programs; (v) select
several institutions, governed by the MSP, with which to pilot the strategic plan and implement
the plan in these programs; (vi) expand the plan to the same programs that are managed by
selected territorial entities; (vii) develop a social control component, with the collaboration of
civil society; and, in a subsequent phase, (viii) expand the integrated M&E system to include
other agencies of MSP; and (ix) disseminate the results and experiences in setting up the M&E
so that other Ministries can learn from this experience. The MSP's M&E system would be fully
integrated to the Sistema Nacional de Evaluaucih de REsultados de la Gesti6n P6blica
(SINERGIA) and SIGOB to ensure its sustainability and extensive use (for more detail on
SINERGIA, see annex 15). Furthermore, the "social accountability" aspects of the M&E system
will build on SINERGIA's model on transparency and accountability which seeks to establish
alliances with civil society to validate the information generated.
This component would be implemented by the MSP in close collaboration with DNP's
Evaluation Department (DEPP). An inter-institutional agreement between MSP and DNP which
outlines the content and respective responsibilities of both institutions in the implementation of
the component has been agreed upon. The project would finance consultant services, training,
goods and some operationalcosts.




                                                  9

4. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design
The following main lessons learned from previous experience in social investment and
programmatic operations have been considered in the preparation of the Social Safety Net
project:

    Strong and sustained dialogue between the GOC and the Bank through joint high-quality
    sector work on social protection issues and operations i s valuable for future operations. The
    Social Protection Loan continues this practice by building on the on-going dialogue around
   the joint analytical work in supervision of RAS programs, particularly Familias en Accidn,
    the public works component of Empleo en Accidn, and Empleo's new wage subsidy
    component. Also continued dialogue and analytical work has been done in training (SENA),
    education, and health sectors, which have been supported by the PLaRSSAL programmatic
   operation.

   Emphasis on outputs and outcomes, rather than inputs and processes, facilitates monitoring
    and following up of conditions by both the Government and the Bank. Also, focusing on key
   project outcomes forces the government and Bank to clearly identify the expected results of
    the project and elaborate on final impacts and the cost-effectiveness of socialprograms.

    The experience of operation in series such as the SECAL, PLaRSSAL I, PLaRSSAL I1
                                                                                and
    has been that it commits the Government to stay focused on monitoring progress in outputs
    of key reform measures over a longer time period in a coordinated, formal and systematic
    way. This project seeks to take advantage of this experience by envisioning a follow on
    operation, as it seeks to keep the MSP, DNP and other relevant institutions focused on
    implementation of social protection reforms and effective programs, regardless of the
    electoral cycle.

    The Bank's experience with CCT programs worldwide shows that these programs are well
    suited to reach the poorest and make a difference intheir lives in the short and the long term.
    Particular lessons learnt from Mexico's Oportunidudes program include that CCT programs
    need to adjust their operations when moving into urban settings with different family
    structures, labor market opportunities and a greater number of other programs. In addition,
    urban mothers seem to need more incentives than rural mothers to participate in training
    activities. Finally, CCT programs seem to find more political opposition in large urban areas
   -notbybeneficiaries, butbythepoliticalopposition, whichneedstobeaddressedcarefully.




                                                10

5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

Bank Instrument.         Using the Adaptable Program Lending (APL) facility was rejected
because of the current uncertainties as to the future institutional home and long term financing of
the future CCT program. The Government has presented a document outlining the criteria and
options that it i s taking into consideration for a decision on these important topics. However, it
i s impossible for the Government to take these decisions now due to the fact that important
inputs, including Colombia's new poverty reduction strategy, the implementation plan for the
Colombia Visidn 2019, and others are not yet ready.

The alternative of supporting a broader social assistance reform agenda was rejected due to
timing. The Ministry of Social Protection is currently carrying out a strategic planning process,
which i s being supported by the TAL throughout 2007, for preparing a broader social assistance
reform. Focusing only on the Familias en Accidn program that i s guaranteed to be a part of the
new social assistance strategy and building tools (MIS, M&E) to support the MSP in this larger
process allows the MSP time and resources to undertake its strategic planning initiative and
prepare reform implementation.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnership arrangements

From the outset in 2001, the World Bank and the IADB have been supporting the Familias en
Accidn programjointly. This collaboration continues during the preparation and implementation
of this operation. While Familia's transition phase in 2006 will only be financed under this loan,
it i s envisioned that a follow up operation to support the CCT program's further expansion in
2007 would again be co-financedby both banks.
In addition, the Bank and the IADB are working together on improving the Ministry of Social
Protection's information systems. The IADB i s supporting the development of an integrated
information system (Sistema Integrado de Informacidn en Salud - SIIS) for the health related
programs in the Ministry, while - under this operation - the Bank would strengthen the
Ministry's monitoring and evaluation capacity with emphasis on social assistance programs and
connecting it to the national SIGOB system.


2. Institutional and implementation arrangements

COMPONENT 1: EXPANSION OF FAMILIES ENACCION

a) Institutional arrangements. Institutional arrangements of component 1remain the same as
those under the Bank's current Human Capital Protection project supporting the Familias en
Accidn program. The program i s implemented by the DAPR-Acci6n Social-FIP. The FIP
steering committee, created by Decree 992 in 2003 and composed of representatives of the
President, relevant line ministries, DNP, the Peace Commissioner and three other members
appointed by the President oversees the policies, strategies and general procedures implemented
by the program. The program employs regional coordinators, which are generally located in the
departmental offices of the ICBF to coordinate different programs and to build a link to the

                                                  11

municipalities. Municipal governments play an important role in the implementation of the
Familias program. The mayor must provide key staff for the program ("enlace municipal") that
coordinates all local activities, ensures adequate health and education service provision, provides
information on health and education indicators, and convenes local committees to oversee
program implementation and deal with complaints and certification of beneficiaries. If a local
government does not comply with its obligations, the program can be suspended temporarily or
definitely. Finally, the program i s supported by voluntary leaders ("madres lideres ") who are
elected by the participating mothers and build a link to local authorities and the national
program.     These mothers are responsible for following up on all aspects of program
implementation, particularly on compliance of families with the conditions.

Inpreparationof the transition of the Familias enAccidn program, several options for the CCT's
future institutional home and financing sources were identified duringproject preparation: (i)  the
program could be managed by Znstituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar (ICBF) with the
program financing paid through earmarked payroll taxes (parafiscales) currently allocated to
other ICBF programs, by efficiency gains in existing ICBF programs, or through budget
transfers; (ii) parts of the program could possibly be financed with resources of the Cajas de
Compensacidn Familiar (CCF); (iii) program could remain under the Presidency and be
                                         the
financed by budget resources following a reallocation in expenditure policy priorities; (iv) the
program could be administered directly by the Ministry of Social Protection, with financing from
a Social Protection Fund; (v) the program could be implemented and (co-) financed by regional
and municipal governments; or (vi) a combination of these options.             It is expected that
Government will take a decision on the future institutional home of the CCT program in 2006.

b) Implementation arrangements. Implementation arrangements will basically remain as
under the ongoing Human Capital Protection project, including: (i)    only SISBEN Ibeneficiaries
are eligible under the program, and only those not already benefiting from ICBF programs (e.g.,
hogares comunitarios); (ii) program works in close coordination and collaboration with local
                              the
governments who provide staff as well as logistical support to the program; (iii)  the program can
only operate in municipalities that guarantee the provision of appropriate local health and
education services; (iv) the program operates through regional offices that build the links
between the approximately 690 participating municipalities and the central office in the
Presidency;
(v) families will continueto have to comply with the same set of "conditionalities" as before; (vi)
health and education facilities continue to provide information on compliance with
conditionalities; (vii) payments are made through the banking system (except in the 3 pilot
municipalities without a banking system); and (viii) a variety of internal and external audits as
well as social accountability mechanisms havebeen established.

Innovations that will be tested during the transition phase include: (i)      extending banking
services to rural municipalities without banks ("caja extendida"); (ii) more flexible procedures
for program inscription and application; (iii) benefits for urban secondary school youth will be
differentiated by grade (grades 6-8 and 9-11); (iv) in urban areas, program collaboration with
local organizations to reach out to eligible beneficiaries who have not been included in the
program; (v) participation in training activities ("encuentros de cuidado ") would be made
mandatory in urban areas; and (vi) the effect of the program on ethnic groups would be
analyzed more extensively.


                                                 12

On the way forward toward a second generation, long-term Conditional Cash Transfer program,
the following topics will be explored under the proposed project, inter alia: (i) training
                                                                                      the
activities will be expanded to emphasize early childhood development, parenting, conflict
management, etc.; (ii)  more flexible entry criteria and explicit exit criteria will be established;
(iii) tootherprogramsthatcouldhelpgraduatefamiliesmorerapidlywillbeidentified;(iv)
     links
whether the conditionalities should be modified (e.g., mandatory participation intraining will be
considered, participation of youth in training) will be considered; (v) the possibility of a
concentration of efforts on secondary education rather than primary education will be explored;
(vi) criteria and procedures for the expansion of the program in times of crisis will be
examined; and (vii) exploration of possibilities for including disabled childredyouth and their
families will be analyzed.

And last but not least, the institutional home and financing sources of the future, long term CCT
program need to be decidedupon (see below). This decision process will be accompanied under
the project.

COMPONENT2: DEVELOPINGMONITORINGAND EVALUATIONSYSTEMS

a) Institutional arrangements.        This component will be implemented by the Ministry of
Social Protection. The MSP i s already successfully implementing the Technical Assistance
Loan providedby the Bank and i s adequately equipped to implement this component.

The component would be implemented in close partnership with and with technical guidance
from DNP's Evaluation Department (DEPP) due to its experience in managing the SINERGIA
system (see annex 15), because of its responsibility for the implementation of a coordinated
M&E system across the entire government, and due to DEPP's role as the technical unit of
SINERGIA and of SIGOB. The roles and responsibilities between DNP and MSP for the
implementation of this project are spelled out in an inter-institutional agreement.

Within the MSP, the component would be implemented by the ministry's General Planning and
Sector Policy Department (Direccidn General de Planeacidn y Andlisis de Politica Sectorial,
DGP) which reports directly to the Technical Vice-Minister of Social Protection. An inter-
institutional steering committee composed of representatives of the MSP and DNP will be
established (included in the inter-institutional agreement) to oversee the implementation process
of the component and provide strategic guidance to the technical unit in establishing the M&E
system. The committee would invite representatives from the implementing agencies (ICBF,
SENA, etc.) to participate in the committee meetings ("voice but no vote").          The DGP will
regularly report to the committee on the component's implementationprogress.

b) Implementation arrangements.             An important part of the work will be to improve
monitoring and evaluation of key social programs implemented by agencies overseen by the
ministry, primarily SENA, ICBF and the CCF. The General Planning and Sector Policy will
therefore closely coordinate its activities with the respective planning departments of the selected
agencies. In addition, the component will strengthen the capacity of the Ministry's regional
offices at the state level. It i s envisioned that in three pilot regions, selected by their size,



                                                  13

poverty levels, and regional representation, the systems will be improved to monitor and evaluate
regional programs to provide reliable information to the national level and SIGOB.

The inter-institutional agreement between MSP and DNP spells out further implementation
arrangements relevant for the collaboration of these two institutions, include institutional roles
and responsibilities, coordination mechanisms, and reporting arrangements.

3. Monitoringand evaluation of outcomes/results

The Ministry of Social Protection (MSP), the National Planning Department (DNP) and DAPR-
Acci6n Social-FIP have in the past shown outstanding commitment to monitoring and evaluating
results of the strengthened and expanded Familias Program. From the outset of the program in
2001, the Govemment has prioritized the development of a solid M&E system for the program
and championed one of the first impact evaluations of the country. Component 2 will support
this priority not only for monitoring and evaluation of the Fumilias program, but also for the
other social assistance programs and institutions depending on the MSP (see Annex 4).

Project results and outcomes will be monitored via on-going project supervision using a
combination of household survey and administrative data (see Annex 4).            The pacing of
disbursements under Component 1, which are tied to completion of co-responsibilities by
families, will provide critical information for monitoring intermediate results during project
implementation regarding school attendance, health visits, etc. The piloting of the Familia en
Accidn program in urban areas i s accompanied by an impact evaluation, supported under the
almost finalized Human Capital Protection project as well as under the new Social Safety Net
project.

4. Sustainability

There are four main factors underlying the project's sustainability. First, the ownership of the
project that reflects the authorities' commitment to reforming the social assistance system and
expanding the initiatives undertaken in the aftermath of the economic crisis with the support of
the Bank and the IADB. Second, the credibility and quality of the conditional cash transfer
program. Third, the authorities' intention to strengthen the institutional coordination for the
implementation of results monitoring and impact evaluation systems as stated in SINERGIA's
M&E strategic plan (DNP, 2005). And finally, the proven impacts on human capital formation
of poor children and youth.

(a) The GOC has shown a high level of commitment to strengthening the social safety net.
The MSP i s developing a two-pronged social protection system: social assistance and social
insurance. Part of the strategy for the creation of a unified social assistance program i s to
consolidate effective safety net programs into the permanent structure of the govemment. Two
of the three RAS programs that were established in the aftermath of the economic crisis-the
public works program (Empleo en Accidn) to offer employment opportunities to poor people in
areas affected by the crisis, and a youth training program (Jdvenes en Accidn) to offer privately
provided training and in-service practice to poor youth in poor areas-        were reformed and
permanently incorporatedinto the MSP's portfolio, following the results of the impact evaluation
of each program.       A similar process of evaluation and permanent institutionalization is


                                                14

envisioned for the conditional cash transfer program (Familias). At the same time, the program
i s being expanded to new populations in which the program could be effective, namely to the
poor inurban areas and to the underserved rural areas.

The GOC sees the expanded conditional cash transfer program as a key instrument in the
reformed social protection system. As demonstrated by the Strategic Plan Colombia 2019, the
Government of Colombia see the conditional Cash Transfer Program as a key tool over the next
several decades, for reducing extreme poverty and fostering individual behaviors consistent with
a reduced vulnerability to risks. The MSP i s already exploring how to institutionalize Familias
en Accidn and will draw lessons from the implementation of the expanded program in rural areas
and the pilot expansion to urban centres that will be financed by the project. At the same time,
the results of the impact evaluation analysis are being used to adapt the design and the
procedures of the program to ensure full participation by the poor and enhanced social control to
prevent leakages in the benefit targeting system.

(b) The Familius en Accidn program has already built its credibility. The program i s highly
regarded by the population (see social assessment, annex 10). During the preliminary impact
evaluation of the program most beneficiaries perceived it as a useful and transparent tool to
mitigate the poverty impact in the aftermath of the crisis. The program i s also helping give a
voice to local communities that, in many cases, have created beneficiaries' associations to
monitor the transparency of the benefit allocation process. The program credibility has also been
fostered by the very positive results of the conditional cash transfer evaluation that has been
continuously disseminated since the early stages of program implementation.          The impact
evaluation results have also helped build a large consensus for Familias en Accidn; they were
keys to the decision not to discontinue the program in a context of limited available budget
resources. The quality of the program has been another major element inthis consensus-building
strategy. The design of the program, the monitoring and evaluation component, and the targeting
system, although with room for improvement, are being considered by the public as a best
practice that could be adopted in other social assistance program and would help reform existing
instruments.

(c) The authorities' goal to strengthen institutional coordination in the social protection
sector will also positively impact the sustainability of the project. InFebruary 2003, the MSP
was created by consolidating the health and labor ministries, which brought under a single
Ministry several semi-independent social protection institutions that have been operating with
little central control for decades (ICBF, SENA, CCF, ISS, and other pension funds). The
objective behind the creation of the MSP was to decrease fragmentation, enhance uniform
quality, and strengthened coordination among the different social protection programs. To this
end, the MSP i s developing a social risk management strategy that encompasses the different
institutions and programs and coordinates the development of institution-specific strategies so
they are in line with the overall strategy of the MSP. The new leadership role of the MSP will
ensure that the institutionalization of the conditional cash transfer program will not add to the
existing fragmentation of the system. It will also help assess the overall financing envelope for
social protection programs and the degree to which expenditure reallocation within the system
can contribute to sustainable financing of the social safety net.




                                                15

An important tool for the design of the new social protection system and effective management
i s the creation o f an integrated results M&E system for the Ministry, but this i s a complex
process, so several steps will be undertaken to ensure the sustainability of the M&E system.
Most importantly, the MSP will work closely with the DEPP-DNP inthe development of, use of,
and integration o f the Ministry's system such that it i s an effective tool for the Ministry, the
Government at-large, and civil society to monitor and evaluate social programs and allocate
budget efficiently. The M&E system at MSP will be closely linked to SINERGIA and SIGOB,
which are well-instituted processes and information systems. Additionally, the MSP will
conduct periodical meetings with national experts, other governmental institutions and civil
society to ensure the quality of the system and to encourage its use by those outside of
Government. The fact that the territorial offices will be trained to monitor the programs will also
contribute to the system's sustainability. In addition, the MSP will include these activities as
part of its Annual Operative Plan.


(d) Sustainable effects on Human Capital Formation of children and youth. Even if the
program were terminated or ifthe benefits were phased out for certain target groups as part of a
"graduation" strategy, the impacts on human capital formation of children and youth, due to
improved health and education, will remain throughout their lives. As shown in annex 9,
expected long term effects include:


0    Increased secondary school participation and reduced drop out rates that will raise lifetime
     income generation capacity;

0    Improved nutrition and health status of vulnerable children in preschool age that will foster
     their healthy growth and development, improve their health conditions and their lifetime
     capacity to generate income for themselves and their families;

0    Improved childcare practices in poor households in nutrition, health, and nonviolent conflict
     resolution skills that will prevent youth participation in risky behaviors, including violent
     activities and increases families' awareness of health and nutrition issues; and

0    Increased poor households' income smoothing ability that will reduce the risk of poverty and
     inefficient copying strategies, such as the reduction of basic consumption expenses.

5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

An assessment of the critical risks of the project is presented in the table below. In light of the
commitment of the authorities to expanding the Familias program to urban areas in a gradual
manner, learning from the results of the monitoring and impact evaluation analysis will limit the
extent of risks related to the program. More general risks of coordination failure between
different agencies operating inthe social safety net system are also moderatedby the consensus-
building approach used by the authorities inproceeding with the social assistance reform and the
implementation of an effective monitoring and evaluation system. More general risks related to
political violence and economic instability are also modest at this stage in light of the progress
made in both areas under this administration. However, 2006 i s an election year and political
pressures could mount to increase spending levels, including in the social sectors. Nevertheless,
the degree of political consensus enjoyed by the administration should provide sufficient political
capital to avoid populist concessions inthe campaign period.

                                                  16

 Risks                                      Risk MitigationMeasures                            Risk Rating with Mitigation


                                            The program is mostly financed by external
                                            sources. The counterpart funds required by the
                                            government are those related to strengthening
                                            the delivery of social services to accommodate
                                            the higher demand resulting from the program.
                                            Local governments will be responsible for social
                                            service delivery within their budget allocations.
 Ineffective targeting o f benefits in the  The authorities are working on ways to improve     M
 Familias program.                          beneficiary selections including by revising the
                                            SISBENsystem and updating the database. The
                                            authorities are working on including civil society
                                            in social control functions on benefit allocation,
                                            supported under the project. The impact
                                            evaluation result will continue to guide revisions
                                            to the program design to better identify
                                            beneficiaries.
 Collaboration between the Familias         The program signs a standard, formal agreement     M
 program and local governments              with the respectivelocal government before
 hampered by political interests.           starting any activities in the municipalities. The
                                            agreementsinclude responsibilities as well as
                                            sanctions for non-compliance with
                                            municipalities' obligations.

 Risk that the expansion of the Familias    The expansion of the program to urbanareas         M
 programto urban areas could result in      will be first piloted ina few municipalities.
 benefits leaking to the nonpoor in these   Targeting i s being done usingthe new SISBEN.
 areas or that political capture could be   The results of this pilot will guide the design of
 higher.                                    the full-fledged expansion of the program.
                                            Statistical information on beneficiaries i s
                                            stronger inurbanareas allowing a better use of
                                            the targeting system.
 Low beneficiary compliance with            The design of the grant scheme includes the
 conditions.                                releaseof a certificate from schools and health
                                            centers to certify attendance. The social services
                                            providedunder the program are highly
                                            appreciated by the population. The authorities
                                            are also strengthening their tools to disseminate
                                            information about the programinvolving local
                                            governments.
                                            The authorities have already finalized a set of
 reform framework in an election year or    studies with results that would guide the
 due to special interest groups.            implementation of the reform strategy in the
                                            social protection sector, including the
                                            institutionalization o f the conditional cash
                                            transfer program as part of the safety net. The
                                            MSPi s committed to lock inthe reforms to the
                                            social safety net to ensure that they are not
                                            reversed by the next administration. The
r                                           authorities have initiated a dialogue with
                                            representatives of different social assistance
                                            agencies to identify the programs and the
I                                           financing sources in the new social safety net
                                            svstem
 To com onents results
 Insufficient supply of health and          To be selected in the program, municipalities
 education services in the new program      have to show that adequate supply of additional
 areas.                                     education and health services can be provided in
                                            the area. Central government sector ministries


                                                                 17

                                         Risk Mitigation Measures                           tisk Rating with Mitigation

 To project development objectives
                                         are committed to provide adequate technical
                                         assistance to local governments to ensure that
                                         service quality and quantity i s adequate.
                                         Continuous monitoring and evaluation would
                                         provide ongoing informationon access and
                                         quality of social services and allow interventions
                                         inareas were these are not satisfactory.
 Leakages of funds to non-poor           The Operational Manual set forth clear rules and
 households due to weak social control,  mechanisms regarding eligibility, flow of funds
 poor fiscal management, and corruption. and social accountability. So far, the program
                                         transparency has been assessed positively both
                                         inthe context of the financial monitoringof the
                                         program and according to beneficiaries'
                                         perception. The quality of the targeting system
                                         will be evaluated with a view to sharpening
                                         targeting and reducing exclusion and inclusion
                                         errors.
 Implementation and supervision          The program will be expanded to pacified
 impeded by violence.                    municipalities where political violence has been
                                         drastically reduced and the govemment has
                                         retaken control of the public order situation.
                                         However, it i s not unlikely that a recurrence of
                                         political violence could emerge during the
                                         Presidential election campaign. However the
                                         risk that this will disruptthe programis
                                         perceived to be modest.

                                         DNP and MSP will sign an agreement that will       M
 DNP on the development of the results   define the relative functions of the two agencies
 basedM&Esystem.                         inthe monitoring and evaluation system that will

I                                        be created and implemented by the MSP under
                                         the project. While the DEPP-DNP will be
                                         responsible for the consistency and conceptual
                                         framework of the general system to be applied to
                                         all govemment agencies over time, the MSP will
                                         be responsible for the design and the
                                         implementationof the system inthe social
                                         protection sector.
 Resistance by program operators to      Commitment towards the development of an           M
 move towards a results-based            integrated results based M&Esystem at the
 management system (little acceptanceof  highest level in MPS as well as inDNP. Series
 a well coordinated M&E system).         of workshop to make program operators aware
                                         about the value of adopting such a system.
                                         Workshops to break silos among M&Esystems
                                         within MPS.
 Foster the use of results of the M&E    Publication of the survey data and evaluation      M
 system by civil society.                results inthe web and make them public for
                                         further use by academic researchers,
                                         governmental institutions and civil society in
                                         general.
IOverall risk rating                     M




                                                               18

6. Loanconditions and covenants

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economicandfinancialanalyses

The program impact consists of two main effects.              The first impact i s given by the
continuation of the program that would be financed under the proposed project. The second
effect i s related to the expansion in the coverage of the program, With the program expansion
supported by this proposed project the number of beneficiaries would grow by 17 percent
reaching 1.4 million children and youth benefiting from the transfers in 400,000 households
(60,000 more than under the current arrangement).

Based on the impact evaluation results we expect the project to contribute substantially to
poverty reduction and investment in human capital. The program i s expected to lead to major
improvements in all indicators for the target population including (see annex 9):

         Raising school participation.     Both enrollment and drop out rates are expected to
         improve as a result of the conditions in program. The program i s estimated to lead to an
         average increase in years of education by more than 0.2 years in secondary school and
         almost 0.1 years in primary school. This translates approximately into a net present value
         gain of about US$260 for primary school and US$780 for secondary school.


    0    Reducing chronic malnutrition. Incidence of malnutrition i s projected to fall in the
         target population. The nutritional intake of children i s also expected to improve in the
         beneficiary population relative to the absence of a program. Improved anthropometric
         development resulting from better nutrition can raise lifetime earnings by as much as 3
         percent.     Better health conditions increase cognitive development and school
         achievements and eventually raise productivity.

         Increasing vaccination coverage and reduce the incidence of diseases. The share of
         the population regularly visiting health centers i s projected to increase by at least 6
         percentage points. The probability of having a full vaccination against DPT will increase
         by 12percent inthe target population, The probability of suffering from any disease will
         also fall in the program population. This effect i s expected to be larger in urban areas
         highlightingthe potential health impact on the programexpansion to urban centers.

         Improving income generation capacity among poor households. Women in program
         households are on average almost 20 percent more likely to earn an income than non-
         program households. The impact on child labor reduction i s expected to be smaller but
         significant.

The fiscal impact of the program is manageable. The program would cost 0.1 percent of GDP
on an annual basis. The increase in the number of households benefiting from the conditional
cash transfer will have both a direct and indirect cost impact on the budget of the DAPR-Acci6n
Social-FIP which i s managing the program. Total direct costs amount to about 0.1 percent of



                                                 19

GDP. Of these, 95 percent will be externally financed and the remaining 5 percent will be
financed by domestic sources.

2. Technical

International and Colombian experience shows that CCT programs can be extremely effective
mechanisms for reducing poverty and inequality in the short run, and provide incentives for
human capital development which can further reduce poverty and inequality inthe long run. The
experience with CCT programs shows that there are key elements that have to be in place and
monitoredcarefully to guarantee the success of such programs:

            An accurate system for identifying and selecting the targeted population (in the case
            of Colombia, this i s effectively being done through the national targeting system,
            SISBEN.      Only families who are classified as SISBEN Iare eligible under the
            Familias program).

            Clear operational procedures, intensive coordination with all involved entities,
            including local agencies, and intensive training of staff and beneficiaries in rights and
            responsibilities.

            Financial checks and balances, including internal and external audits, periodic checks
            on procedures and social accountability mechanisms.

            A well balanced and timely monitoring system to predict and adjust to any
            bottlenecks in the system, complemented by impact evaluations that periodically
            inform about outcomes and impacts.

The design of the Colombian Familias en Accidn program i s deemed of highquality and i s used
in other countries as a best practice, not least for the significant impacts it has produced. The
program has found a good balance between managing the overall program and outsourcing
different elements of it. By working with local governments and asking them to co-administer
parts of the program, it has achieved low operational costs (around 5%) and high commitment at
the local level. Familias has become an integral part o f the local government's agenda.

3. Fiduciary

Financial Management (see annex 7)

Financial management arrangements in place for Human Capital Protection-Cash Transfers
project, loan 7050 CO, are considered to be generally acceptable to the Bank. For this reason,
most FM procedures will remain for Component 1 of the proposed project. Considering this
experience of the loan 7050 with uncollected payments, under the proposed project the executing
entity will certify to the Bank that the returns are invested in the project or if they remain at the
end are reimbursed to the Bank. For Bank's supervision, there will be some adjustments to the
procedures to document the expenses for grants and the commissions paid to the commercial
banks for this activity. (See details in the Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) section of
Annex 7).


                                                 20

For Component 2, the PIU established to coordinate external loans at MSP (IADB Health Sector
Reform projectPARS, TAL to support the PLaRSSAL I1through loan 7260-C0), that were
assessed during preparation of loan 7260 CO, will coordinate the financial processes with
FONADE, that will administrate the project funds and will prepare the financial reports.
The pending actions as of project appraisal were: (i)   completion of the Operational Manual; (ii)
preparation of the terms of reference for the project financial audit; (iii)completion of the terms
of reference for contracting FONADE and its commercial proposal; and (iv) preparation of a
preliminary internal audit action plan. Documents are on project files.

Procurement (see annex 8)

Procurement will mostly follow the arrangements of the Human Capital Protection project.
DAPR-FIP i s well versed in procurement procedures and only a small amount, used for
consultancies and training, will be procured by them under the project due to the fact that
Government will provide all operational costs through counterpart funds.

A procurement capacity assessment of the MSP has been carried out in the context of the TAL
and other projects implemented by that ministry. No issues have surfaced. FONADE will be
contracted to carry out the procurement under component 2. Its procurement capacity seems
adequate to also take on this operation. Therefore, overall procurement risk i s rated "average."

4. Social

Among the beneficiaries targeted by this project are Colombia's indigenous and Afro-Colombian
communities. A rapid social assessment was conducted in April 2005 (see annex 10) to identify
ways in which the project design should be adjusted to ensure eligible indigenous and Afro-
Colombian families are reached and served by the program in a culturally appropriate way. The
assessment drew from the experience of ethnic beneficiaries already enrolled in the Familias en
Accion program which proved to be a rich resource.

While the assessment revealed that the program has generally had a positive impact on the
indigenous and Afro-Colombian beneficiaries it serves, it also found that some aspects of the
program could be improved in order to have a better impact on Colombia's ethnic population.
These include the targeting through SISBEN, outreach to non-participating, eligible
beneficiaries, monitoring of ethnic minorities in the program's management information system,
and more impact on secondary school enrollment.
Based upon the findings of the social assessment, an Indigenous People Development Plan
(IPDP) has been developed which will be implemented under the project, forming part of the
project's overall implementation plan. The plan consists basically of further studies and the
inclusion of some specific actions regarding the program's training strategy and improving
monitoring of the ethnic beneficiary populationby municipality to achieve a better understanding
about the program's effects on the Indigenous and Afro-Colombian population. It should be
noted that the recommendations do not include suggestions regarding the SISBEN targeting
mechanism due to the fact that this i s outside the realm and influence of the program.




                                                  21

5. Environment

Not applicable. The Project i s classifiedunder Category C as it presents no potential adverse
impacts.

6. Safeguard policies

OD 4.20 requirements were met with the IndigenousPeoples Development Planin annex 10.

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                             Yes                     No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                 [I                     [XI
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP4.04)                                                             [ I                    [XI
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                                [I                     [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                  [ I                    [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                    [ I                    [XI
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                  [XI                      [ I
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                     [ I                     [XI
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                              [I                      [XI
  Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)x                                               11                      [XI
  Projects on InternationalWaterways (OP/BP/GP7.50)                                        [ I                     [XI

7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

The proposed project does not require any exceptions from Bank policies or procedures. The
project meets all Regional criteria for implementation.




 By supporting theproposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of the parties' claims on the
disputed areas.

                                                            22

                    Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background
                             COLOMBIA: Social Safety Net Project

This Annex reviews the country and social context and provides the background andjustification
for the new Social Safety Net project which supports an expansion of the successful conditional
cash transfer (CCT) program Familias en Accidn and the monitoring and evaluation capabilities
of the Ministry o f Social Protection.

1.      Country Context: Economic Recovery And Slow Social Progress

Before the 1999 recession, Colombia had enjoyed sustained economic growth. Macroeconomic
stability had led to major improvements in social indicators despite the negative impact of the
ongoing political violence. Sound fiscal policy and skillful macroeconomic management laid the
foundations for persistent GDP growth at 3-4 percent per year that led to job creation and
household income growth.         This translated into a continuous reduction in poverty and
improvements in human development indicators as shown by increasing school enrollment rates
and access to social services.

By the mid 1990s weak fiscal controls and external shocks resulted inthe accumulation of large
public debt and a decline in economic growth. The economic crisis that hit the country in 1998-
99 and the subsequent years of poor economic performance had large negative effects on the
population, hitting both the middle class and the poor, as the social protection system was not
prepared to respond to the huge social implications of the economic crisis. With GDP growth
plummeting to -4 percent in 1999 and increasing financing          constraints on public spending,
unemployment rates rose to record highs, doubling from 8 percent in 1995 to 18 percent in 2002.
As a consequence, between 1996 and 2002, the national poverty rate increased by 7.2 percentage
points, largely erasing the gains made in the early 1990s (Table 2), with the rural poverty rate
increasing 10 percentage points over this period, The national extreme poverty rate (number of
people with insufficient income to buy a minimum food basket) increased even more by 39
percent in 1996-2002. Also, income inequality rose sharply from a Gini coefficient of 0.50 in
1996 to 0.56 in 2002.

                 Table 2. Gini Coefficient and Poverty Rates in Colombia, 1996-2003
               1996      1997       1998     1999      2000      2001        2002      2003
    Gini       S O       .52       .52       .53       .53        .54        .56        .55
                                             Poverty, %
    National 60.2        61.3      63.4      63.4      63.5      65.4        67.4      64.2
    Urban      54.5      54.6      57.9      57.9      56.2      59.1        61.3       59.1
    Rural      73.8      77.6      77.3      77.4      82.6       82.0       83.7      79.1
                                        Extreme Poverty, '3%
    National 20.0        22.7      24.7      22.7      24.3      24.0        27.8       22.9
    Urban      13.8      15.6       18.5      18.3     17.9       17.6       22.2       19.0
   IRural      35.0      40.2      40.5      40.9      40.8      40.7        42.1       33.1
   Source: PD SecondPLaRSSAL basedon data from Encuesta Nacional de Hogares (National Household
   Surveys). LCSPP/World Bank. May 2004.




                                                 23

Since 2003, economic performance has improved and also poverty indicators. GDP growth
reached 3.7 percent in 2003, up from a meager 1.6 percent in the previous year and remained
above 3.5 percent of GDP during 2004, marking the first two consecutive years of economic
growth at nearly historical levels after the crisis. Prudent fiscal policy and deficit reduction
helped reduce public debt to slightly above 50 percent from almost 60 percent in 2002. With
inflation contained and external reserve accumulation continuing in 2004 the country i s better
prepared to deal with vulnerability. Also, as a consequence of growth, lower unemployment-
unemployment decreased from 18 percent in January 2002 to 17 percent in January 2004 and
13.2 percent in January 2005-and        the introduction of targeted social protection measures
poverty rates declined by about 4 percent, with larger declines in rural areas (6.5 percent),
between 2002 and 2003. The extreme poverty rate declined even more by nearly 18 percent
between 2002 and 2003.

However, difficult challenges remain. Colombia continues to suffer from high levels of poverty
and unemployment. Many children remain vulnerable to illness and, while substantial resources
are spent on health, a high proportion of families still do not have adequate protection against
financial losses from illness nor access to good quality basic health care services. Moreover,
Colombia continues to lag behind other competitor countries the level and quality of education
and training, undermining its prospects for greater long term competitiveness and growth.
Finally, the ongoing violence has taken an enormous toll on the economy and Colombian
society. Violence has been estimated to cost some 2 percentage points of GDP each year; it i s
estimated that the average Colombian income would have been 50 percent higher had the
fighting stopped 20 years ago. Internal violence has dampened investment, and led to huge
revenue losses-with sabotaged pipelines alone reducing government revenues by approximately
US$500 million per year.

2.      Country Context: Rapidly Increasing Social Spending

Constitutionalreforms, decentralization, health sector and pensionreforms have all led to a rapid
increase in social spending since the 1991/93. Aggregate social spending more than doubled,
from 6.8 percent of GDP in 1990/91 to 15.3 percent in 1996/97 (Table 3). By constitutional
mandate education, health and basic infrastructure expending was transferred from the central
government to states and municipalities with the transfer formula including automatic increments
in real spending. Education spending increased by almost 2 percentage points of GDP between
1990/91 and 1996/97,while health spending almost tripled as a result of decentralization and the
health sector reform (Law 100) o f 1993. Pension spending, fuelled by the transition costs of the
pension reform (also by Law 100) increased from about 2.5 percent of GDP in 1990/91 to 6.1
percent in 1996/97 and 4.4 percent in 2000/01.         The health sector reform mandated the
transformation of supply-based subsidies to a demand based-system whereby subsidies are given
to the uninsured poor rather than to public hospitals.       The pension reform created private
retirement accounts, but allowed for the continuation of the largely unreformed existing pas-as-
you go system. While both reforms, have produced some impressive results, the fiscal cost of
the transition has been large, and in the case of pensions, threaten the fiscal sustainability of the
country. It also leaves less fiscal space for targeted social assistance and for investments in
productive infrastructure, which are needed for Colombia to be competitive in the global
economy.



                                                24

       Sector                     1990191                     1996197                     2000101
      Education
      _... .             I           2.7
                                     -               I          4.6                          3.9

       Social security               2.5                        6.1                          4.4
       Housing      and              0.5                         1.2                         1.o
       other
       Total                         6.8                        15.3                        13.6


Successive administrations facing escalating social spending have made strong reform efforts to
containing spending and improving the efficiency 'of spending. The most noteworthy efforts
include: i)enactment by Congress of Law 715 in 2001, which reformed decentralizationLaw 60
of December 1993.           This new Law controls growth in fiscal transfers to sub-national
governments and ties education transfers to enrollment and quality improvements; ii)labor
reform Law 789 o f 2002 which reduced the costs of hiring in general and particularly of hard-to-
employ workers, and introduced several social protection measures; and iii)creation of the
Ministry of Social Protection for social protection policy making and coordination and regulation
of social protection programs.           The following i s a brief review of reform issues in the
government's National Development Plan (NDP) 2002-06 in education, health, pensions and
targeting of such spending. Social protection reform issues and programs are discussed in the
next section on Program Background of this Annex.

a.      Education issues and reforms

Colombia still i s far from attaining significant education levels to be competitive in the global
economy. Net primary enrollment rate was 82.4 in 2001, down from 84.2 percent in 1999.
Recently, according to the Ministry of Education (MED), the number o f school places has
increased by over 700,000 from 2002-04 and so the enrollment rate has increased to about 85
percent of relevant population in 2004. The net secondary enrollment rate was only 63.4 percent
and net enrollment in higher education was only about 15.4 percent in 2001. Some recent
increases are also expected on these rates, resulting from enrollment efforts by MED and
municipalities. Resulting from the low historical enrollment and completion rates, the number of
school years of the Colombian population was only about 7.4 years (in 2001), which i s low when
compared with other countries such as Argentina (8.8 years), Panama (8.6 years) and Peru and
Uruguay (7.6 years).        In terms of education quality, Colombia ranks near the bottom in
achievement tests among a large number of developed and developing nations.

The GOC i s committed to sustained implementation of the education reform agenda in the
National Development Plan and has made education development a high priority.                             A key
instrument to achieve greater coverage, improved teachers' performance, and higher student
learning i s Law 715 o f the year 2000. The Law 715 mandated funding formula - based on
number of students rather than number of teachers - has started to pressure the territorial entities


 Lasso, F. and N. Millan. Incidencia del Gasto Pu'blico Social Sobre la Distribucidn del Ingreso y la Reduccidn de
la Pobreza. Report produced for the Poverty Misibn. Bogota. December 2004.

                                                       25

and their schools to enroll more children or lose financing. To accompany this process, the MED
i s providing technical assistance to territorial Secretaries of Education to develop reliable
databases for monitoring and evaluation purposes. Also, the MED i s implementing innovative
teaching methods to increase enrollment and improve education quality for certain left-behind
groups.    As seen below, the proposed Social Safety Net project will `be key to supporting
education objectives in that the per-student cash transfer (which i s higher for secondary schools)
allows poor families that enroll primary and secondary school children and ensure their regular
attendance to school to finance the opportunity and direct cost of attending school. Table 4
below presents a summary of significant impacts on enrollment and attendance to primary and
secondary school in the current Familias en Accio'n program (to be expanded under this loan)
after only 1year of operation.

b.       Health sector issues and reforms

Despite the more than doubling of health spending since the 1990s, Colombia's health indicators
have shown relatively progress. Under five mortality rates declined by 11 points (from 36 per
1,000 live births in (1990-1995) to 25 in(1995-2000)2, while in the rest of Latin America and
Caribbean countries the decline has been more pronounced (20 percentage points, from 54 in
1990 to 34 in 2002) in the same period. Maternal mortality continues to be a dark spot with a
highrate of 99 deaths per 100,000 livebirths in 2001.3 Immunizations rates inColombia at 89.0
percent in2002 are below the Latin America average of 91 per~ent.~

Nevertheless, the current administration has taken several notable measures to improve health
and nutrition indicators and to protect families from the financial costs of illness.                First,
Colombia i s regaining its historically high immunization rates by: (i)           protecting the budget for
the purchase of syringes and vaccines to cover the annual immunization targets and reach the
2006 targets; and (ii)      clarifying the institutional roles in vaccination, improving coordination
with the private sector's role, aggressive vaccination campaigns aimed at the municipal
authorities. Second, the DNP proposes to increase coverage in the Subsidized Regime by 1.2
million uninsured poor in 2005. The MSP estimates that the number o f individuals in the
Subsidized Regime i s now 15.5 million as of December 30, 2004 (including about 1.7 partial
subsidies). Partial subsidies only cover, however, high-cost care, and not primary and some
other hospital care covered in the SR health plan. Finally, third, for improving service quality,
the MSP i s implementing a process for licensing of health service providers or IPSs (Resolution
1439 of October 2002, which defined quality standards by activity or hospital ward).

The health reform remains a formidable challenge. The immediate challenges are to continue
expanding the number of affiliates in the Subsidized Regime and gradually transforming partial
into total subsidies, thus increasing coverage of the health plan. This will also bring non-
affiliates among SISBEN 1-2 families into the system.                 The transformation of the 3ervice
providers to sellers in the health market will require the GOC to implement the hospital
restructuring plan and continue the policy of "no bailouts." The licensing and oversight of the



* NationalPopulationand Health Survey,page 96.
  Sistema Estadisticas Vitales- Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadisticas
  World Bank (2004). Ibid.

                                                      26

EPSs, ARSs, and IPSs are fundamental to give consumers the information and assurance that
their insurance and health providers are of highquality.      5



C.       Pension issues and reform

The pension reform Law 100 created private pension fund accounts, but left largely untouched
the existing pay-as-you-go (PAG) system. Many flaws of the PAG system-including                         overly
generous multiple pension plans, low retirement ages, high replacement ratios-remained
untouched, and the attempts to reform this system, particularly the long transition period to
increase retirement ages, have had limited success. This i s causing large fiscal deficits and
increasing dependence from government transfers to pay pension obligations to the over one
million pensioners. Colombia's largest future fiscal liability i s the government's outstanding
liabilities to the social security system which i s estimated to be about 170 percent of GDP. In
January 2003, Congress passed a pension reform Law (Law 797) to partially address the looming
deficits of the social security sector. Finally, a new pension reform law was passed inJune 2005.


d.       Targeting of socialspending

The distribution of social spending has been progressive in Colombia in most social sectors,
except pensions and housing (Table 4). The poor generally get a proportion of social spending
which i s higher than their population share in education, health and safety nets. Health services
became substantially more progressive after the health reform law of 1993, which created the
Subsidized Health Regime for the poor. Key to implementation of the decentralization and
health reform laws was the implementation of the Sistema Nacional de Seleccion de
Beneficiarios, SISBEN (National Beneficiary Selection System) starting in 1994. The SISBEN
provides an objective and transparent mechanism for selecting beneficiaries of social programs
by national andterritorial entities6




  EPS are the insurance companies of the contributory regime (formal workers and self-employed). ARSs are
insurancecompaniesof the subsidizedregime for the poor. IPSs are healthproviders(clinics, hospitals,etc.).
  See World Bank. Colombia: Social Safety Net Assessment, (World Bank, WashingtonDC), 2002.

                                                    27

                      Table 4. Colombia: Share of Subsidies Received by Bottom 20%
                                   and 40% of the Population, 1992-2003 (%)
         Program / Social Sector                       Bottom 20%                        Bottom40%
                                          1992          1997      2003         1992           1997       2003
         Education                         23.1         24.2       24.2         45.O          45.4        47.0   I
         --Primary                         39.3         44.9       36.5         65.0           73.4       64.5
         --Secondary                       20.6         28.9       23.9         47.3           57.3       50.7
         --Higher                          5.1           3.7       2.5          14.4           12.2       10.7
         Health & Social                   29.1         34.8       34.1         57.3           65.1       63.0
        Assistance
         --Subsidized regime (poor)        NE                      40.9          NE                       72.4
         --Supply (hospital)subsidy                                27.8                                   54.3
       I Pensionssubsidies                                         0.3                                    2.3
         Housing                           14.5         16.8       15.7         38.9           41.6       33.0   I
          NE: Non-existent.
          Source: Velez (1996) for 1992. DNP et al. (2001)for 1997. Lasso-Millan (2004) for 2003.7

Despite these advances, many targeting issues remain.                     First, although targeting improved
between 1992 and 1997, it has worsened in primary and secondary education in 2003. Second,
the aggregate redistribution effect of social spending i s worsening as the most regressive of all
social spending-pensions-is             increasing rapidly while the other more progressive sectors-
education, health and social assistance-are               growing less rapidly.'        Third, under Colombia's
tight budget constraint, the booming pension expending means that less fiscal resources will be
available for targeted social assistance, education spending for the poor, and productive
infrastructure. Thus, not only future generations will be paying for pension fiscal liabilities (by
paying today's debt obligations), but also the current poor-especially                           children-who      are
under-covered with effective human capital development programs.                           However, the GOC i s
committed to increasing well targeted and effective expenditures for the poor, such as the
Fumilius en Accidn CCT program, as seen below.

3.         Program background: social safety net reforms and the social protection system

Addressing the weaknesses in the social protection system has been a key priority for the
Colombian authorities after the 1999 crisis. Reforms started under the Pastrana administration
(1998-2002) and were expanded under the current administration of President Uribe who took
office in 2002. The authorities were aware of the weaknesses in the risk management system
and began an aggressive agenda to reform the social protection system. The objectives of these
reforms i s to contain spending, especially on pensions and, thus, leave fiscal space for other
safety net and social protection programs, improve efficiency and targeting, while expanding
coverage to the most needy and excluded, and creating an emergency response system should
another crisis occur.




 Velez, C. Gasto Social y Desigualdad: Logros y Estravios. Bogota, March 1996. Departamento Nacional de
Planeacion (DNP), Ministerio de Salud, PNUD. Evaluacidn Integral del SZSBEN. Bogota, 2001. Lasso, F.and N.
Millan, ibid.
* Iti s worth noting that not all pension pending i s government subsidies, as a large part i s workers' and employers'
contributions and past debt obligations of the PAG system. However, an increasing share i s government subsidies,
as benefits are most likely higher than contributions.

                                                           28

To meet these objectives, the GOC has made important reforms to overhaul its fragmented and
inefficient social protection since 2001. The first was the implementation of a set of social safety
net programs under the Red de Apoyo Social (RAS), with Bank and IADB support, to address the
economic consequences of the crisis. The second was the introduction of institutional reforms
including the creation of the Ministry of Social Protection (MSP) to make social protection
policy and coordinate and oversee social protection programs within a social protection
framework, being developed by the MSP, with assistance from DNP. The third was the
introduction of immediate measures to make more efficient and better targeted programs
managed by the Instituto Colombiuno de Bienestur Fumiur, ICBF (Colombia's Family Welfare
Institute) for early child development programs, and the Servicio Nacionul de Aprendizaje,
SENA's (National In-Service Training System) training programs, to meeting goals established
by the NDP. Finally, the government started an overhaul of the SISBEN targeting system in
2003.

a.      The RAS programs: a response to the 1999 crisis

The RAS program was implemented in 2000-01 to meet the needs of those especially vulnerable
to the economic recession. Its objective was to provide temporary assistance to extreme poor
families (SISBEN 1 level) in a form that also increase human capital of children.'             The RAS
consisted of three projects, all executed by the FIP (Fondo de Inversion pura la Paz) depending
from the Presidency of the Republic. These are: (i)          Fumilias en Accidn which transferred cash to
poor families conditional on ensuring health check ups for 0-5 year old children and primary and
secondary school enrollment and regular attendance for children 6-17 years old; (ii)         Jdvenes en
Accidn which provided scholarships and in-service training to poor youth; and (iii) en        Empleo
Accidn, a public works project which provides temporary part-time employment for development
of community projects in poor urban areas. While Familias en Accidn has benefited 340,000
(about 1 million children) in the last three years, Jdvenes en Accidn has benefited over 50,000
youths and Empleo en Accidn provided about 100,000 temporaryjobs until it was restructuredin
2003.

All three RAS programs have introduced innovative new ways that combine social assistance
with creation of human capital, and new operation models that improve efficiency of social
spending. The Jdvenes en Accidn program recently incorporated into SENA' s training service
provides technical as well as on thejob training by private firms under working agreements with
SENA. The Empleo en Accidn program, now executed by the MSP, was restructured, with Bank
support, into a wage subsidy program to make it more attractive to private firms, taking
advantage of special provisions in the labor reform law 789 of 2002. Finally, the Fumilias en
Accidn program, still executed by FIP, was selected by the GOC to be expanded (even facing
tight fiscal constraints) given its notable social benefits and good targeting (see next section and
Annex 9). The implementation of the social safety net project has been accompanied by
strengthening the monitoring and evaluations functions to allow an assessment of the relative
effectiveness of each program.




  SISBENclassifies people in six poverty levels, with Level 1beingthe poorest people.

                                                        29

b.      Institutional reforms: Creation of the Ministry of Social Protection

The Ministry of Social Protection (MSP) was created in February 2003, through the merger of
the Ministries of Labor and Health, as the institutional backbone of Colombia's social risk
management system. The MSP i s charged with policy making and consolidation of the existing
social protection programs by designing coordinated strategies and policies through public
health, early childhood development, skills training, unemployment insurance, pension, and
other labor-related initiatives. The MSP will oversee a variety of previously uncoordinated
agencies that provide the bulk of social assistance and insurance protection in Colombia,
including the ICBF, SENA, and Cajas de Compensacion Familiar, CCF.1 Because of these
agencies are financed with payroll taxes-ICBF:                3 percent, SENA: 2 percent and CCT: 4
percent-welfare    spendinginhighly pro-cyclical inColombia. The MSP's coordination effort i s
expected to increase efficiency by eliminating duplication of functions and defining an
appropriate division of labor.

The MSP has already begun to define Colombia's new social protection and assistance
framework in close coordination with DNP and the newly created poverty task force (Misidn de
Pobrezaor Poverty Mission). A great number of studies have been commissioned with financial
support from the Bank (through a Japanese Grant), IADB, that directly supports the Poverty
Mission, and the UNDP. The MSP organized a technical one-day seminar in February 2005 to
discuss with the Bank and other donors, preliminary results of such studies on: i)overall view of
social protection system; ii)the financing of social protection, including historical data and
projections for the future; and iii)and institutional and targeting issues of social assistance
programs. While these studies are under revision by MSP, much ground work has been done
that allows the MSP to advance institutional and financing reforms. The recently approved
Technical Assistance Loan for US$2 million (IBRD Loan 7260-CO) will continue support to the
MSP to further define and implement social reforms.

c.      Reforms of ICBF: Early Child Development

The ICBF serves, among others, one of the most vulnerable groups in Colombia - children
younger than age seven from poor families - but structural problems with the ICBF require deep
program reforms. In 2004, ICBF programs benefited nearly one million children - 85 percent of
whom attended community childcare centers (Hogares Comunitarios de Bienestar, HCB) - and
distributed food supplements to 2.6 million children (up from 2.3 million in 2002) on a regular
basis. Additionally, the children's breakfast program covers over 500,000 children (up from
78,000 in 2002). The impressive coverage rates mask the reality that: (i)                  targeting of ICBF
programs to poor families decreased after 1991, although it has markedly improved recently; and
(ii) qualityofinputs,andthusthequalityofservices,wasconsideredtobelowuntil1999.
    the

The ICBF i s undertaking three noteworthy measures. First,it has established quantitative targets
increasing the share of ICBF expenditures going to poor children. Second, it i s undertaking an
impact evaluation of its two major assistance and prevention programs: Desayunos Infantiles
(children's breakfasts) and Hogares Comunitarios de Bienestar (Community Day Care). Third,



loThe CCT are quasi-autonomous welfare institutions for providingsubsidies and other benefits to families of
formal workers. They are financed by a four percent payroll tax.

                                                      30

 based on the results of the evaluation, the Institute will focus the use of its resources on strategic,
 high value-added, and pro-poor programs. It is noteworthy that the ICBF has decided that its
 nutrition programs for under seven year olds will be targeted to poor children. As seen in Table
 5, ICBF authorities have made notable advances in targeting child care and school feeding
 programs to the poorest children in 2003. In fact, over one-third of total child care and school
 feeding subsidies administered by ICBF were received by the bottom 20 percent of children and
 nearly two-thirds by the bottom 40 percent. Further targeting progress can be achieved with the
 use of the new SISBEN, as proposed by the ICBF. Also, the ICBF and the MSP face the
  challenging task of reorganizing the Institute's programs to improve quality and focus its
  services.

                    Table 5. Colombia: Targetingof SocialAssistance Programs,2003
              Sectors                     Size of subsidv          % of benefits receivedbv:
                                     %         %          %
                                    GDP Household        Total     1    2      3     4     5
                                            Income      Subsidy
 Pensions                            3.47    4.63        32.43    0.3   2.0    4.8 13.2   79.8
  Child care (0-7 years old)         0.40    0.54        3.79    32.7 28.8 21.1 13.7       3.7
  --ICBFcenters                      0.16    0.22        1.53    35.8 27.9 18.4 14.9       3.0
  --Other public                     0.24    0.32        2.26    30.7 29.4 22.8 12.8       4.3
  School feeding(ICBF     +          0.28    0.37        2.62    36.8 28.6 19.4 12.2       3.0
  other)
  Family subsidy (CCF)               0.20    0.26        1.85      1.2 13.9 19.0 30.7     35.2
1 Technicaltraining    (SENA)        0.19    0.26        1.81      8.9  9.9 16.9 33.6     30.7
  Housingsubsidies                   0.01    0.02        0.12    15.7 17.3 16.5 26.9      23.7
  Source: Lasso-Millan (2004). Ibid.

  d.       Reforms to technical training: SENA

  Regarding technical training, the government i s increasing coverage of training programs,
  enhancing their targeting and i s working to improve the efficiency of SENA. Coverage has
  almost tripled from 1.1 million trainees in 2002 to 2.9 million in 2004. However, targeting of
  SENA programs has been traditionally very poor, inpart because of the course mix and duration
  (most were long 2-3 year courses that benefited little the poor) and the non-use of targeting
  instruments to select beneficiaries of training programs. In 2003, less than 10percent of benefits
  accrued to the bottom 20 percent of the population and less than one fifth of benefits went to the
 poorest 40 percent. Two recent initiatives could address the special circumstances of youth and
 improve targeting: i)implementation of the reform of the apprenticeship program; and (ii)
  institutionalization of Jdvenes en Accidn, a program providing a training grant to poor young
  adults (SISBEN 1 and 2 levels) to participate in courses and apprenticeships provided by
  competing private firms. Moreover, the GOC has decided to develop a more efficient and
 effective national skills formation system by establishing a competitive process and level playing
  field among the public and private providers in the use of the SENA training fund. To this
  effect, measures are underway to separate responsibilities in the provision, financing, regulation,
  and accreditation of training services. Inthe meantime, SENA i s making efforts to increase the
 efficiency of its services by downsizing staff and making their contracts more flexible. Also, the
 law 789 obliges SENA to devote at least 25 percent of its resources to train the unemployed.



                                                    31

e.       Revamping of the SISBEN targeting system

Inan effort to improve targeting and address several issues of the ten year old SISBEN system-
including outdated databases, duplication of people in database, political manipulation-the
GOC started to update surveys and municipal databases in 2003. This effort i s expected to make
the SISBEN Index significantly more accurate as a poverty status indicator and to improve its
administration, auditing, and regulatory framework.         Sanctions for false information and
mismanagement o f the system are being contemplated.

4.       The Social Safety Net Project

Expanding the successful conditional cash transfer program Familias en Accidn and
strengthening the monitoring and evaluation system of the MSP are two immediate priorities for
which the GOC has requested support from the World Bank and the IADB. While the reform
initiatives undertaken so far in the social protection sector show the reform commitment of the
authorities, overhauling the social protection system i s a challenging medium term task. Based
on the positive results of the impact evaluation studies, the authorities have decided that the
Familias en Accidn program will be an important element of the new National Social Protection
System, both as a tool to deal with crisis (for which the program needs to make some
adjustments) and to address structural poverty by improving the human capital and capacities of
extreme poor families.

The authorities intend to expand the Familias en Accidn programto households living inrecently
pacified zones without access to the banking system, as well to those living in marginalized
urban areas reaching a total 400,000 households (and approximately 1.4 million children and
youth beneficiaries) from 340,000 currently in the program. Another objective i s to define the
sustainable funding sources to finance the program and its institutional arrangements once it has
become a permanent component of the social protection system. Inthis context, the authorities
have requested technical and financial support from the Bank and IADB (at a second stage) to
expand the coverage of Familias en Accidn and to strengthen the monitoring and evaluation
capacity of the MSP.

The proposed project will contribute significantly to meeting Colombia's Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015, as it addresses key identified issues inpoverty, education,
health and social protection (see annexes 4 and 9).


        Poverty and inequality reduction by directly raising income and consumption of the poor
        and improving women's labor force participation.

        Education by improving primary and especially secondary enrollment and completion
        rates of the poor.

        Health by improving coverage of vaccination and growth monitoring of children.
        Nutrition by improving consumption of highnutrition foods and supplements.
        Social risk management by providing a safety net allowing households to smooth
        consumption during periods of economic or other shocks, as has been observed in similar
        programs in Mexico and Nicaragua.

                                                32

  Indicator                                  Results-Outcomes                            Contribution
                                                                                         to the MDGs
Income            Six percent reduction in incidence of extreme poverty-due    to           MDG 1
poverty and       increase of 15% in consumption of highprotein foods.
food
consumption       Increase of 6.5% in women's work hours in urban areas; increase of
                  3.6% for men inrural areas.
Nutrition and     Statistically significant impact on height (0.78 cm.) and weight (0.22    MDG1
hunger            kg.) of children 0-2 years old in rural areas.
Education         Largest effects on enrollment among older (secondary age) children in    MDG2-3
                  rural areas. Smaller effects for younger children (primary school
                  where enrollment i s already high).
Health            Significant increase in0-5 years old children with growth monitoring     MDG4-5-6
                  controls and vaccinations (from 42 to 54 percent).

                  Decrease of over 10% in incidence of diarrhea among 0-4 years old
                  children inrural areas.
Child labor       Significant reduction inchild labor in both urban and rural areas.        MDG8
Source: Attanazio, 0. Familias en Accidn:     Un Aiio Despues (Families in Action: One Year Later), (IFS,




                                                      33

       Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financedby the Bank and/or other Agencies
                            COLOMBIA: Social Safety Net Project


1. RelatedBank Lending

a. Adjustment Lending

   Social Sector Adjustment Loan (SECAL). This loan (approved on August 1, 2002, and
   closed on December 31, 2002, Loan 7134-CO) for US$ 155 million supported the
   government in strengthening and extending reforms aimed at increasing the pace of human
   capital accumulation and the development of a comprehensive and efficient social protection
   system. The PLaRSSAL program follows up on many of the reforms supported by the
   SECAL.
   IPRating: Satisfactory
   DO Rating: Satisfactory

   First Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Structural Adjustment Loan (PLuRSSAL I).
   This loan (approved on September 9, 2003, and closed on March, 31, 2004, Loan 7193-CO)
   for US$ 200 million supported the design of key social reforms, including enactment of laws
   and regulations in labor, education, health, and social protection.
   IP Rating: Satisfactory
   DO Rating: Satisfactory

   Second Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Structural Adjustment Loan (PLuRSSAL
   ZZ). This loan (approved on November 4, 2004, and closed on March, 3 1, 2005, 7259-CO)
   for US$ 200 million supported implementation of legal and institutional reforms made and
   supported in the First Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Structural Adjustment Loan
   (PLaRSSAL I)    operation.
   IP Rating: Satisfactory
   DO Rating: Highly Satisfactory

   Technical Assistance Loan (TAL). This loan (approved on November 4, 2004, Loan 7260-
   CO) for US$ 2 million supports the implementation of reforms in the PLaRSSAL program
   operations, including the design and development of the social risk management framework
   under the MSP.
   IPRating: Satisfactory
   DO Rating: Satisfactory

   Programmatic Fiscal and Institutional Adjustment Loan (FZAL). This loan (approved on
   March 18, 2003, and closed on April, 30, 2003, Loan 7163-CO) for U S $300 million
   promoted reforms to relax fiscal rigidities, improve the provision of public services, and
   establish the institutional basis for higher efficiency and accountability inpublic expenditure.
   IPRating: Satisfactory
   DO Rating: Satisfactory




                                                  34

b. Investment Lending

    Human Capital Protection Project. This loan (approved March 29, 2001, Loan 7050-CO)
    for US $150 million provides cash transfers to extremely poor families conditional on their
    children's enrollment inbasic education and visits to health centers for basic care.
    IPRating: Satisfactory
    D O Rating: Highly Satisfactory

    Community Works and Employment Project. This loan (approved May 11, 2000, Loan
    7017-CO) for U S $100 million supports community projects to create opportunities for
    temporary employment for the poor unemployed workers.            This workforce project also
    finances a pilot wage subsidy program for employers who hire poor unemployed workers, in
    addition to their current workforce.
    IPRating: Mostly Unsatisfactory
    D O Rating: Mostly Satisfactory

    Higher Education-Zmproving Access Project. This loan (approved on December 23, 2002,
    Loan 7155-CO) for U S $200 million aims to increase enrollment in higher education.
    IP Rating: Satisfactory
    DO Rating: Satisfactory

    Cundinamarca Education Quality Zmprovement Project. This loan (approved on August
    19, 2003, Loan 7192-CO) for US $15 million intends to reform Cundinamarca's education
    system to increase its efficiency, basic education coverage, and quality.
    IPRating: Unsatisfactory
    DO Rating: Satisfactory

    Rural Education Project. This loan (approved on April 11, 2000, Loan CO-7012) for US
    $20 million intends to strengthen the decentralizationeffort inrural areas.
    IPRating: Satisfactory
    DO Rating: Satisfactory

    Peace and Development Investment Loan. This loan (approved on June 10, 2004, Loan
    7232-CO) for U S $30 million i s an innovative lending operation that complements the
    PLaRSSAL program. This project assists communities in planning and implementing their
    own strategies for development inthe context of violence and conflict.
    IP Rating: Satisfactory
    DO Rating: Satisfactory

    Public Financial Management Project ZZ (MAFP ZZ) Loan. This loan (approved on March
    22, 2001, Loan 7049-CO) for US $35.47 million seeks to strengthen the institutional
    capacity of the Direccidn de Impuestos y Aduanas Nacionales (Directorate of National Taxes
    and Customs, DIAN) to foster voluntary compliance, collect revenues efficiently, effectively,
    and equitably, and combat tax evasion and smuggling, so as to enable it to mobilize adequate
    tax revenues to finance public expenditures.
    IP Rating: Satisfactory
    D O Rating: Satisfactory


                                                 35

c. Other Development Agencies

The GOC closely coordinates Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) and World Bank
support for the reform of the social sectors. The Bank and IADB teams continue to have a good
working relationship on labor and social reform issues. Collaboration in the implementation of
the Social Safety Net (Red de Apoyo Social, RAS) financed in parallel by both banks, remains
strong. A single monitoring and evaluation model of the RAS program i s being utilized by the
GOC and the teams regularly consult each other regarding the GOC's social sector reform
program.

Social Emergency Program. A program completed in December 2003, by the IADB for US$
1.25 billion. This program focused on: (i) protection of key social programs in education,
                                           budget
health, and social assistance; and (ii)
                                      social sector efficiency and equity in several key programs.

The following investment loans, under implementation by the MSP, support activities that are
complementary to those the Bank would support on the policy side with the second phase of the
PLaRSSAL. Specifically, they support the achievement of immunization rates, the expansion of
the Subsidized Regime, and the licensing and accreditation of hospitals and clinics.

   Health Reform Support Program (Programa de Apoyo a la Reforma en Salud, PARS).
    This program has been under implementationby the MSP for several years, and is supporting
    the design and implementation of an information system for the sector (SIIS).

   Hospital RestructuringProject. This program has been under implementation by the MSP.
    In early 2004, this project was approved for US$ 72 million to finance the public hospital
   restructuring processes to make the network of public health care facilities more competitive
    and able to sell their services to insurers in both the Subsidized and the Contributory
    Regimes.

    The Immunization Project (Programa Ampliado de Imunizacidn - PAI). This program i s
    implemented by MSP. It's objective i s to maintain and increase the vaccination coverage and
    strengthen MSP's institutional capacity in this area. The project i s financed by the IADB
    (US$ 107 million) and CAF (US$24.8), both were approved in 2005.




                                                36

e

                0
e   e   e  .   I,.  e   e

                 E

Arrangements for Results Monitoring

Overall Outcome Indicators. Overall outcome indicators will primarily be monitored using a
set of household surveys:

        Household Budget Surveys. Two sets of household surveys will be used. The first i s
        the household survey used for the baseline of the pilot implemented in urban areas. The
        second i s the survey used for the third measurement of the on-going impact evaluation of
        the Fumilius en Accidn program. The two survey instruments collect comprehensive data
        on welfare measures (consumption and income, which could be used for estimating
        poverty and inequality), education enrollment and school attendance, growth monitoring
        of children and health care, and anthropometric measures (for malnutrition), among other
        variables.

Component 1. The results indicators for Component 1(see table above) would be monitored as
part of on-going supervision, relying primarily on the program's management information
system data from the program. Data on coverage of the program are readily available from
payments information.

Component 2. The results indicators for this component are all based on documents, data and
technical materials produced by the MSP. These would be monitored as part of on-going
supervision, relying primarily on information from the program.




                                                 39

I--




       0                 In
       d    0      0
             t-    w     m

   L



                   IA    0
                   t-    m




        0                IA
       d     3
             a     0
                   r-    ffi

C
m


                       z
                      .e
                      (I:
                      S


m         0
m    0
     r-   0           m
                      r-

               .-
               z
               (I)




C    m    0
N   a     0    0
               N




     0    0    0      C

      c




z
r,




z
N       E

       m a
        e

                          Annex 4: Detailed Project Description
                         COLOMBIA: Social Safety Net Project


Component 1: Consolidation and expansion of the Familias en Accidn program to
400,000 families by including extreme poor families in marginalized urban areas as
well as high priority zones affected by violence ($91.33 million out of which $6.33
million are counterpart funds). The project would disburse cash transfers (grants) to poor
families linked to compliance with key human development conditionalities. Under the
current Familias program these include: a) assuring that children 0-6 have all
vaccinations and growth monitoring controls, according to the MSP protocols; and b)
assuring that children 7-17 years of age are enrolled in schools and attend regularly to
classes. During the first phase of the project, the program would increase its coverage
from 340,000 to 400,000 families. This expansion would include families in recently
pacified municipalities without a formal banking system. Inaddition, the program would
pilot its expansion into marginalized, conflictive urban areas (to date, Familias has only
operated in rural areas, and in towns with less than 100,000 inhabitants).

This component would disburse cash transfers (grants) to poor families linked to
compliance with key human capital development conditionalities. Under the current
Familias program these include: a) assuring that children 0-6 regularly visit health
centers and participate in the growth monitoring activities offered by these facilities,
according to the MSP protocols; and b) assuring that children 7-17 years of age are
enrolled in schools, maintain a class attendance rate of not less than 80 percent, and not
repeat grades more than once.

Under the project, the CCT program would increase its coverage from presently 340,000
to 400,000 families. Only beneficiaries pertaining to the SISBEN Icategory would be
eligible under the project. The expansion would be done through the inclusion of several
new target areas:

     Urban Municipalities: Familias will be piloting its implementation in marginalized
     urban areas, initially in the municipalities of El Poz6n/Cartagena,               and
     BogotgSoacha. The pilot experiments with the level of benefits (adjusting it the
     needs of urban areas and differentiating the amount by school level), adjust training
     contents and times, coordinate more intensively with local NGOs and community
     leaders, and work intensively with local governments asking them for more
     substantive contributions. This pilot i s being accompanied by a rigorous impact
     evaluation managed by DEPP-DNP.

     Rural municipalities: Furthermore, the program i s expanding into 40 new
     municipalities.   These include 7 regional capital towns that were previously
     excluded because they had more than 100,000 inhabitants, 30 rural medium and
     small municipalities that have been pacified, have a commercial or private Bank
     available, and commit to providing the necessary health and education facilities, and



                                            43

     3 rural municipalities without a formal banking system, in which the program will
     pilot the hiring of banking services offered in neighboring municipalities ("caja
     extendida"j.

In addition, the Government, through its Social Solidarity Network (Red de Solidaridad
Social) i s exploring the possibility of extending the Conditional Cash Transfers
mechanism to 100,000 displaced families across the nation working through the national
registry of displaced persons (Registro Unico de Poblacidn Desplazada) established by
the Presidency.    This expansion would not be financed under this project, but by
government funds and others.

Beneficiary families would receive the education grant during of the project (year 2006)
for as long as they are enrolled in primary or secondary schools, maintain a class
attendance rate of not less than 80 percent, and do not repeat a grade more than once.
Each education beneficiary would receive a monthly stipend per eligible child amounting
to US$ 6 per month for Primary school students (grades 2-5) and US$ 12 per month for
secondary (grades 6-11). These amounts are equivalent to household's average direct
education expenditures. In the urban pilot, the amounts for secondary are going to be
adjusted and differentiated by grade (6-8th grade will receive $12, 9-llth grade approx.
$15).

The healthhutrition grant would be given to eligible families with children 0-6 years of
age, who are not in the community nutrition and pre-school program (Hogares
Comunitarios de Bienestar) of the Coiombian Institute of Family welfare (ZCBF,Znstituto
Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar). Selected families would receive the grant for as
long as they comply with agreed healthhutrition requirements. This grant would require
parents to bring their children ages 0-6 to health clinics for schedules growth monitoring.
Inthe clinics the children would receive the basic health services provided by the health
system, including immunization, as established by the GOC's health regulations and as a
condition for municipal participation in the project. The clinic-based health services
would be supported by health and nutrition counseling sessions. The grants would be
issued to the mothers. To avoid incentives to fertility and recognizing the economies of
scale in families' food consumption, the grant would be set at US$ 20 per month per
eligible family with a 0-6 years old regardless of the number of children. On average this
amount represents about US$ 13 per child per month. The grant US$ 20 i s more or less
equal to the gap between the cost o f a basic food basket for determining the poverty line
and the average income of indigent families.         The amount indicates a conservative
estimate of the additional direct food and health expenditures needed by an average
indigent family to keep their preschool children well nourished and healthy and avoid
human capital development failures.

The healthhtrition as well as education grant per beneficiary would be given in
Colombian pesos, but the amount would be calculated in U S dollars to. maintain the real
value of the peso-denominated grant over the years. The selection of grant beneficiaries
and the verification of compliance with requirement of their receipt would be done in
accordance with procedures and criteria to be established in the Operation Manual.



                                             44

Of the US$ 85 million loan financing, US$ 84.75 million will finance conditional cash
transfers, covering 5 bimonthly payment cycles of on average US$ 17 million between
December 2005 and December 2006. The remaining US$ 250,000 would be used for
strengthening the technical capacity of the implementing agency for the improvement of
the technical design of the program, in view of its eventual transition into a long-term
social assistance program. In addition, Government would provide US$ 6.33 million of
counterpart funds for operational costs, training, monitoring and evaluation (e.g., the
pilots), internal and external auditing, and other related studies.

Component 2: Improving the monitoring and evaluation system of the Ministry of
Social Protection (MSP) in order to better track and critically review the country's
social safety net portfolio ($1.4 million).

The project will support MSP's mandate of increasing transparency and efficiency of the
social safety net and its implementing agencies," which has a budget equal to 10% of
GDP, by establishing an integratedM&Esystem inthe MSP that provides accountability,
an objective assessment of social policies and programs, and continuous feedback for the
design of social safety net programs inColombia.

The operation will help the MPS to establish an integrated, results based M&E system
that should have the following desirable characteristics:
    .    Strengthen the relationship between outcome indicators and budget allocation in
                                                                                     -
        'the social area by creating an integrated results based M&E system that will allow
        for tracking o f social spending at the national and local levels; measuring the
        impacts of the spending; and reporting these results to the Government, via the
        Presidential Results System (SIGOB) that i s administered by the Evaluation
        Department (DEPP) at DNP, to allow for better decision-making across

    .   government.
         Strengthen the MPS's institutional capacity to evaluate its current proprams by
        implementing a strategy and a process for government-civil society interactions,

    .   data collection, and contracting of independent technical evaluation institutions.
        Improve transparency and accountabilitv in the MSP by creating a process for
        public dissemination of the spending and results system, thereby not only
        fostering transparency but also enhancing governmental accountability.

This component would finance the initial planning and piloting of the MSP's integrated
results based M&E system. Specific activities include: (i)            an institutional assessment to
analyze the capacity of MPS and its agencies in carrying out evaluation and monitoring


" This systemincludes the areas of health (professional risks, health, Instituto Colombian0 de Bienestav
Familiar - ICBF, autonomous agency in charge of family welfare), and labor (retirement pension, Sewicio
Nacional de Aprendizaje - SENA, autonomous agency in charge of technical training in Colombia, and
Cajas de Compensacidn Familiar, autonomous agencies that give stipends to households based on their
income).


                                                 45

including data collection, analysis, and reporting; (ii) development of a strategic plan
                                                        the
for the establishment of a sustainable integrated M&E system, including the key
indicators to be measured; (iii) training key government officials to implement, use, and
benefit from an M&E system; (iv) build a consistent information platform accessible to
the MSP programs; (v) select several institutions, governed by the MSP, with which to
pilot the strategic plan and implement the plan in these programs; (vi) expand the plan to
the same programs that are managed by selected territorial entities, (vii) develop a social
control component, with the collaboration of civil society; and (viii) disseminate the
results and experiences in setting up the M&E so that other Ministries can learn from this
experience.    The MSP's M&E system would be fully integrated to SINERGIA and
SIGOB to ensure its sustainability and extensive use (for more detail on SINERGIA, see
annex 15).
The project would finance   consultant services, training, goods and some operational costs
under this component.




                                             46

                                   Annex 5: Project Costs
                          COLOMBIA: Social Safety Net Project

                  Table 7. Summary of Project Cost Estimates (US$ Million)
I                                                                                           I

                                                      Foreign           Local        Total
        1. Expansion of Familias en Accidn                              91.32         91.32
     2. DevelopingMonitoring and Evaluation
                 Systems of the MPS                                      1.40          1.40
            Total BASELINE COSTS                                        92.73         92.73
               Physical Contingencies                                    0.00          0.00
                 Price Contingencies                                     0.00          0.00
            Total PROJECT COSTS                                         92.73         92.73


          Table 8. Expenditure Accounts by Years -Totals Including Contingencies


                (US$ Million)
                                                       Totals Including
                                                        Contingencies
                                           2006             2007                Total
             I.InvestmentCosts
                  A. Grants                82.47                                82.47
              B. SmallCivil Works          0.02             0.02                0.04
             C. ConsultingServices
           1. LocaUforeignConsultancies     1.10            0.47                1.57
                  D. Training              0.15             0.17                0.3 1
           E. ProgramAdministration        4.46                                 4.46
                 F. Equipment                               0.11                0.11
               G. OperatingCost            3.76                                 3.76
               H. Other Materials          0.01             0.01                0.02
                                           91.96            0.77                92.73



    Table 9. Expenditure Accounts by Components -Totals IncludingContingencies
      (US$ Million)
                                     Expansion of        Developing Monitoring and
                                  Familias en Accio'n  EvaluationSystems of the M P S     Total
   I.InvestmentCosts
         A. Grants                      82.47                                             82.47
   B. SmallCivil Works                                               0.04                 0.04
   C. ConsultingServices
 1. Local/foreignConsultancies          0.64                         0.93                 1.57
       D. Training                                                   0.3 1                0.31
 E. ProgramAdministration               4.46                                              4.46
       F. Equipment                                                  0.11.                0.11
     G. OperatingCost                   3.76                                              3.76
    H. Other materials                                               0.02                 0.02
                                        91.32                        1.40             I   92.73




                                              47

     C
     9
     Ip,
     W




i

      Table 11.Developing Monitoring and EvaluationSystems of the MPS
                                      DetailedCosts

(US$Million)                                                                       Expenditures by Financiers
                                                                                      International Bankfor
                                                           Totals Including            Reconstruction and
                                                            Contingencies                 Development
                                                      2006      2007       Total  2006       2007        Total
I.InvestmentCosts
  A. General Supervision
     1. General SupervisionFollow-up                   0.17      0.17       0.33   0.17        0.17        0.33
    2. Support Staff                                   0.10      0.10       0.20   0.10        0.10        0.20
  Subtotal General Supervision of the system           0.27      0.27       0.53   0.27        0.27        0.53
  B. Surveys -consultancies/a                          0.10      0.10       0.20   0.10        0.10        0.20
  C. Technological Support (IT) - coordination with
  SIGOB
     1. Consultancies                                  0.07                 0.07   0.07                    0.07
    2. Hardware and software                                     0.11       0.11               0.11        0.11
  Subtotal Technological support (IT) coordination
                                       -
  with SIGOB                                           0.07      0.11       0.18   0.07        0.11        0.18
  D. Technical Assistance for the Implementationof
  M&Einthe MPS and Sub-national Governments
     1. Training /b                                    0.15      0.17       0.31   0.15        0.17         0.3 1
  E. InformationMaterialfor Dissemination              0.01      0.01       0.02   0.01        0.01         0.02
  F. Office Remodeling                                 0.02      0.02       0.04   0.02        0.02         0.04
  G. Impact Evaluation                                 0.03      0.10       0.13   0.03        0.10         0.13
                                                       0.64      0.77        1.40  0.64        0.77         1.40




                                                       49

                             Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                              COLOMBIA: Social Safety Net Project

Component 1.Expansionof Familias en Acci6n

a) Institutional arrangements of component 1 remain the same as those under the Bank's
current Human Capital Protection project supporting the Familias en Accidn program. The
implementing agency for this component would be the Presidency's Agency for Social Action
and International Cooperation (DAPR-Acci6n Social- FIP). This agency was created by Decree
2467 on July 19, 2005, merging several operational units of the Presidency, including the Fondo
de Inversio'n para la Paz (FIP) that operated under the Red de Apoyo Social which implements
the ongoing "Human Capital Protection" project. The FIP steering committee, created by Decree
992 in 2003 and composed of representatives of the President, relevant line ministries, DNP, the
Peace Commissioner and three other members appointed by the President oversees the policies,
strategies and general procedures implemented by the program. The program employs regional
coordinators, which are generally located in the departmental offices of the ICBF to coordinate
different programs and build a link to the municipalities. Municipal govemments play an
important role in the implementation o f the Familias program. The mayor must provide key
staff for the program ("enlace municipal") that coordinates all local activities, ensure adequate
health and education service provision, provide information on health and education indicators,
and convene local committees to oversee program implementation and deal with complaints and
certification of beneficiaries.  If a local government does not comply with its obligations, the
program can be suspended temporarily or definitely. Finally, the program i s supported by
voluntary leaders ("madres lideres") who are elected by the participating mothers and build a
link to local authorities and the national program. These mothers are responsible for following
up on all aspects of program implementation, particularly on compliance of families with the
conditions.

b) Implementation arrangements will basically remain as under the ongoing Human Capital
Protection project. These include, inter alia:


    Only SISBEN Ibeneficiaries are eligible under the program, and only those not already
    benefiting from ICBF programs (e.g., hogares comunitarios).

    The program i s working in close coordination and collaboration with local govemments who
    provide staff as well as logistical support to the program.

    The program can only operate in municipalities who guarantee the provision of appropriate
    local health and education services. If a local government does not provide these services,
    the program i s suspendedinthat particular municipality.
    The program operates through regional offices who build the links between the
    approximately 690 participating municipalities and the central office inthe Presidency.

    Families will continue to have to comply with the same set of "conditionalities" as before.
    However, this might be adjusted in urban areas based on the current pilot's experience.




                                                  50

   Health and education facilities continue to provide information on compliance with
   conditionality.

   Payments are made through the banking system. The program i s now negotiating with banks
   to expand their services to those municipalities that do not have established financial
    services.

   Internal as well as external audits will analyze operational efficiency and compliance with
   the operational manual as well as financial soundness of the program.
   A variety of social accountability mechanisms have been established under the program,
   including public hearings and "vigilance" meetings by beneficiaries, municipal assemblies of
   beneficiaries, establishment of a municipal committees for certification of beneficiaries, and
   a complaints department at the central level of the program.

   Children and youth remain the principle beneficiary and target group of the program.
   Training activities to enhance their knowledge and social capital will be continued
   intensively.


Innovations that will be tested duringthe transition phase include:

    Extendingbanking services to rural municipalities without banks (``caju extendidu").
    More flexible procedures for program inscription and application.
    Benefits for urban secondary school youth will be differentiated by grade (grades 6-8 and 9-
    11). A pilot i s evaluating options.
    Inurban areas, the program will look for synergies with local organizations to reach out to
    eligible beneficiaries who have not been included inthe program.
    Participation in training activities ("encuentt-os de cuidudo") would be made mandatory in
    urban areas.
    The participationof ethnic groups inthe program will be looked at closely.


On the way forward toward a second generation, long-term Conditional Cash Transfer program,
the following topics will be explored under the proposed project:
    The training activities will be expanded to emphasize early childhood development,
    parenting, conflict management, etc. (as part of a broader effort of Government to improve
    Early Childhood Development).
    More flexible entry criteria and explicit exit criteria will be established. In addition, the
    program will seek to establish links to other programs that could help graduate families more
    rapidly.
    Whether the conditionalities should be modified (e.g., mandatory participation in training,
    participation of youth intraining).

    Whether there should be a concentration of efforts on secondary education rather than
    primary education.



                                                51

0   Electronic transfer of benefits inurban areas ("AT,"    card).

    Resolving the complementarities between Familias en Accidn and other programs such as
    Hogares Comunitarios.

0   Establish modalities for regular recertification need to be established to ensure that the
    program continues to be well targeted and adjusts flexibly to changing living conditions.

0   Explore criteria and procedures for the expansion of the program intimes of crisis.

    Possibilities of establishing an appeals mechanism for rejected cases should be explored.

    Possibilities for including disabled childredyouth and their families will be explored.

And last but not least, the institutional home and financing sources of the future, long term CCT
program need to be decided upon (see below). This decision process will be accompanied under
the project.

Inpreparation of the transition of the Familias enAccidn program, several options (some partial)
for the CCT's future institutional home were identified during project preparation: (i)        the
program could be managed by Znstituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar (ICBF) with the
program financing paid through parafiscales currently allocated to other programs, through
efficiency gains, or through budget transfers; (ii)
                                                  parts of the program could possibly be financed
with resources of the Cajas de Compensacidn Familiar (CCF); (iii) program could remain
                                                                         the
under the Presidency and would be financed by budget resources following a reallocation in
expenditure policy priorities; (iv) the program could be administered directly by the Ministry o f
Social Protection, with financing from the Social Protection Fund; (v) the program would be
implemented and (co-) financed by regional and municipal governments, or (vi) a combination of
these options. It i s expected that Government will take a decision on the future institutional
home of the program prior to elections in2006.

Component 2. DevelopingMonitoring and Evaluation Systems

This component will be implemented by the Ministry of Social Protection. The MSP i s already
successfully implementing the Technical Assistance Loan provided by the Bank and i s
adequately equipped to implement this component.

The component would be implemented in close partnership with and with technical guidance
from DNP's EvaluationDepartment (DEPP) due to its experience in managing the SINERGIA
system (see annex 15), because of its responsibility for the implementation of a coordinated
M&E system across the entire government, and due to DEPP's role as the technical unit of
SINERGIA and of SIGOB. The roles and responsibilities between DNP and MSP for the
implementation of this project are spelled out in an inter-institutional agreement.

Within the MSP, the component would be implementedby the ministry's GeneralPlanning and
Sector Policy Department (Direccidn General de Planeacidn y Andisis de Politica Sectorial -
DGP) which reports directly to the Technical Vice-Minister of Social Protection.              This
department i s composed of four units which cover the following work areas for the MSP: (i)
Sector Studies and Analysis; (ii)  Decentralization and Regional Support; (iii) Technical Support


                                                52

Center; and (iv) Information Systems (MIS). Staffed with approximately 40 professionals and
assistants, each unit i s led by a unit coordinator. Responsible for the implementation of the
M&Ecomponent of this project will be mostly the technical "Sector Studies and Analysis Unit"
which i s in charge of strategic planning for the ministry, developing annual implementation
plans, providing information for the SIGOB and the ministry's project information system
SIGPROY, both of which are not yet connected.             The technical unit within the General
Department of Planning will have the following responsibilities: 1) developing goals and
objectives in the integrated system; 2) tracking the results of such goals; 3) defining the process,
manual, and results; and 4) contracting program evaluations.
An inter-institutional steering committee composed of representatives of the MSP and DNP
will be established (included in the inter-institutional agreement) to oversee the implementation
process of the component and provide strategic guidance to the technical unit in establishing the
M&Esystem. The committee will invite representatives from the implementing agencies (ICBF,
SENA, etc.) to participate in the committee meetings ("voice but no vote").           The General
Department of Planning of MPS will regularly report to the committee on the component's
implementationprogress.

An important part of the work will be to improve monitoring and evaluation of key social
programs implemented by agencies overseen by the ministry, primarily SENA, ICBF and the
CCF.     The Department of Planning will therefore closely coordinate its activities with the
respective departments of the selected agencies. The M&E capacities of these departments will
therefore be strengthened so that they can better monitor programs and report back to the
SIGOB.     In implementing the M&E system, intensive work will be carried out with the
implementing agencies as to strengthen their internal management information systems. In
addition, the component will strengthen the capacity of the Ministry's regional offices at the state
level. In three pilot regions, selected by their size, poverty levels, and regional representation,
the systems will be improved to monitor and evaluate regional programs to provide reliable
information to the national level and SIGOB. The DGP will work with the implementing
agencies to improve information quality and flow. Joint workshops have been carried out to
develop the implementation plan for the component and ensure the commitment of all involved
entities.




                                                 53

             Annex 7: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements
                             COLOMBIA: Social Safety Net Project

Country Issues. A country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) was delivered to the
Government in June 2004. The critical issues affecting projects include the tight fiscal situation,
budget and administrative processes that can cause delays in implementation, and the national
chart of accounts which extends to sub-national levels of Government. At the country level, the
Bank i s currently engaged with the Government to improve project financial management by: (a)
improving the operation of Special Accounts and related mechanisms for receiving and
managing cash - especially loan funds; (b) decreasing the incentive to employ international
cooperation agencies to manage Project funds; and (c) improving and streamlining the
accounting and reporting requirements agreed upon in November 2002, between the Bank and
the country's Accountant General and Auditor's General Office.

Financial Management Assessment. Financial management arrangements in place for Human
Capital Protection-Cash Transfers project, loan 7050 CO, are considered to be generally
acceptable to the Bank. For this reason, most FM procedures will remain for Component 1 of
the proposed project.

In the above-mentioned project (loan 7050), grants not collected by the beneficiaries of loan
7050 CO, as of December 31, 2004, had reached US$ 6,196,000 (amount certified by the
project's auditors recently that represents 4% of total loan funds). From this amount, US$
3,262,000, had been used from October 2003 to December 2004, to pay new beneficiaries and
the balance of US$ 2,934,000 i s being utilized during 2005. The returns were accumulated in a
special account in the central Bank, denominated in pesos, from year 2002. Considering this
experience, for the proposed loan, the executing entity will certify to the Bank that the returns are
invested in the project or if they remaining at the end are reimbursed to the Bank. For Bank's
supervision, there will be some adjustments to the procedures to document the expenses for
grants and the commissions paid to the commercial banks for this activity (see details in the Use
of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) section of Annex 7).

For Component 2, the PIU established to coordinate external loans at MSP (IADB Health Sector
Reform project, US$ 38 million, TAL to support the PLaRSSAL I1per US$ 2 million, loan 7260
CO), that were assessed recently during preparation of loan 7260 CO, will coordinate the
financial processes with FONADE that will administrate the project funds and will prepare the
financial reports.  The TORS to contract FONADE will be submitted to the Bank before
negotiations.

The pending actions as of project appraisal were: (i)   completion o f the Operational Manual; (ii)
preparation of the terms o f reference for the project financial audit; (iii)
                                                                            completion of the terms
of reference for contracting FONADE and its commercial proposal; and (iv) preparation of a
preliminary internalaudit action plan.




                                                 54

OrganizatiodStaffing. The DAPR-Acci6n Social-FIP financial team and the Project
ImplementationUnit for external loans at MSPEONADE will have the responsibility to
coordinate financial management aspects for component 1and 2 respectively. MSP will evaluate
the need to hire additional support for the PIU.

Internal Controls. The internal control system of the project would incorporate the policies and
procedures established by DAPR-Acci6n Social-FIP and MSP in order to achieve the objectives
and targets by the project and assure its efficient execution, including incorporation of the
administrative policies, the safeguard of goods, the prevention and detection of fraud and errors,
the complete and on-time presentation and registration of financial transactions and the reliable
financial information. It was agreed that DAPR-Acci6n Social-FIP, in coordination with the
Presidency's internal audit office, will contract services to carry out semiannual audits, using a
sample that can be extrapolated statistically.

Other ExternalAudit Controls. Due to local regulations, the proposed project i s subject to the
"Veeduria Especial del FIP" and the "Veeduria Social," two mechanisms of social
accountability.  The latter i s carried out through a municipal committee of social verification
supporting beneficiaries' claims with the municipal participation.

External Audits. The annual financial statements, SOEs, deposits and withdrawals from the
Special Accounts of the project, would be audited each year by an independent auditor hired by
DAPR-Acci6n Social-FIP under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Inaddition to the
annual financial statements conforming to International Standards of Auditing (IFAC Standards),
the audit report would include comments on the accuracy of all expenditures, project
management, eligibility for financing in terms of the project's legal agreements, and standards of
record keeping and internal controls related to the project. There should be a special request in
the audit TORS, making sure that the auditors have a positive role in improving the project
processes. Audit reports and related statements would be submitted to the Bank within the six
months after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year.

Written Procedures.       Project financial procedures will be documented in an Operational
Manual (OM), which will define the roles and responsibilities. DAPR-Acci6n Social-FIP will
update the OM in place for loan 7050 CO and MSP will prepare the procedures for component 2.
The OM will be presented to the Bank by June 2005 and will include among other financial
procedures: (a) accounting policies and procedures including basis of accounting; (b) terms of
reference for FONADE; (c) cash flow charts with detailed processes; (d) reporting requirements;
(e) formats and instructions of the Financial Monitoring Reports (consistent with Resolucidn 380
of 2002, publishedby Colombia's Accountant General's office, and other related regulations; (f)
internal control procedures including criteria and procedures for processing payments; (g)
records management; and (h) audit arrangements.

Accounting and Information Systems.            DAPR-Acci6n Social-FIP will account for the
transactions for Component 1 in the "Stone" integrated financial management software, which
has been recently implemented for other external loans, including loan 7050 CO. This system
integrates the modules of Accounting, Financial Reporting, Budgeting and Treasury.




                                                55

Accounting for component 2 will be the responsibility of FONADE, under i t s contract with the
MSP, who will be responsible for supervising it.

Funds Flow and Cash Management. The Bank would disburse the proceeds of the loan into
two Special Accounts in US dollars in the name of the project, heldby the National Treasury and
Credit in the Central Bank for DAPR-Accibn Social-FIP and MSP. Flowchart 2 shows the flows
relatedto disbursements under Component 1.

The amount of the initial deposit shall be determined after loan effectiveness, in accordance with
the relevant clause(s) in the loan agreement. DAPR-Acci6n Social-FIP will transfer the grants to
financial institutions serving as a cashier that will pay the grants to the beneficiary mothers.
Financial institutions will report the amounts not collected by the beneficiaries (returns), finance
division at DAPR-Accibn Social-FIP reconciles the reports and prepare checks to transfer the
returns to a national account of returns in the name of the project, in the Central Bank (see
flowchart 1). MSP will transfer the funds to FONADE, the latter being responsible for payments
for component 2. The payments cycle i s described in detail in the Operations Manual.




                                                56

                                     Flowchart 1
                       Payments to Beneficiary Families




                  FINANCE DIVISION              MHCP            COMMERCIAL
                                                                   BANKS




                   Flowchart 2    o1
                                                                  Pay to the
                     Processbudget,                               beneficiary

Prepare list with    accounting, and             Transfer fr      families.

eligible families    order the        -                           (25 days)

and amounts.         transfers to the            Accounts t
                     commercial                  the Central
                                                            I
                     banks.                      Bank.




                                                                           t
                                                                 Report
                                                                 amounts n t
                                                                 collected f m
   send to the         Reconcile the                             the familie .
                       reports with the                          (10 days)
                       balances in the
                       accounts and
                       prepare checks tc
                       be deposited in a
                       designated
                       account in the
                       Central Bank.                                 Total Days = 57




                                          57

                                            Flowchart 2
                                    Request of Disbursements

 DAPR-Acci6nSocial    -
          FIP                    MHCP                      WB              CENTRAL BANK


     SOE based o n             Review and sen          disbursement
     benefits picked u                                 into Special           Receive

     by eligible               to the World            Accounts in            deposit

     families                  Bank (WB) (3            Central Bank




                             Enter info. To




          Order
          transfer o f
          funds to
          the project                                               Days irom Flowchart 1= 57

                                                                    Days from Flowchart 2 = 39
                                Convert Speci
                                                                    Total Payment Process= 96
                                into pesos and
Flowchart 1                     transfer to the
              I                 project
                                accounts.




   Use of Sta-Lment of Expenditures (SOEs). As included in flowchar 2, loan withdrawal
   applications for grants, will be supported by SOEs prepared based on the list of eligible
   families prepared and reviewed by the program team. Considering the disbursement timing
   and availability of the Bank funds, it i s estimated that the reimbursement process from the
   time the beneficiaries are paid to the time that the Bank funds are reimbursed and available
   in the special accounts, takes about 96 average calendar days, due mainly because the
   payment preparation period used by the commercial banks before to pay to the beneficiaries
   and that the itself process of payment takes in average 38 days, plus 18 days more to report
   and reconcile the payments determining the accuracy of the returns as found in loan 7050



                                                 58

   CO, it was defined that returns for grants not collected will be deducted from the SOEs as
   follows:


        The SOE form used to justify the expenses will include a column to show the balance of
        returns pending to be deducted.from new reimbursements.

    0   The first disbursement i s likely to be the request for an advance to the Special Account of
        approximately US$ 20 million. The following chart shows how the project will justify
        the expenses duringthe program:


            Payment to
            Beneficiary  Disbursement   No. SOE    Support for justification of expenses


                 1             1        Advance    Liquidation of first payment grants

                2              2             1     Liquidation of first grant payment

                3              3            2      Liquidation of secondgrant payment after
                                                   deductingrefunds from first grant
                                                   payment

                4              4            3      Liquidation of third grant payment after
                                                   deducting refunds from second grant
                                                   payment

                5              5            4       Liquidation of fourth grant payment after
                                                    deducting refunds from third grant
                                                   payment




    Refunds from the fourth and fifth grant payment will be applied to the payment of pending
    program grants until they have been fully utilized. By contrary, the returns balance will be
    reimbursedto the Bank after to proceed with the last grant payment.

        Related to the bank fees charged by the commercial banks over the grant payments, this
        will bejustified under the operational cost category.

Documentation to support the project expenditures would be maintained in the DAPR-Accibn
Social-FIP and MSP available for Bank and auditors and will be retained for up to one year after
the final financial audit has been submitted to the Bank.

Financial and Management Reporting. The DAPR-Accibn Social-FIP and MSP with the
participation of FONADE will prepare Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) in conformity of
local Resolution 380, 2002 of the Colombian Accountant General's Office and other related local
regulations to report to Bank and the Government of Project developments. FMRs for each
semi-annual period will be sent to the Bank within 45 days after the end of each such period (Le.,
by August 15 and February 15). Resolution 380 of 2002 i s being reviewed by the Bank and the
Country's Accountant General and Auditor General's Office to simplify the reports and improve


                                                  59

 their use for Project monitoring. FMR's will serve as a basis for the preparation of the financial
 statements, audited as part of the annual project financial audit.

 Financial Management Risk. The Risk Assessment Matrix bellow, presents the items of
 potential risk for the program from a Financial Management standpoint.

                          Table 12: FinancialManagementRisk Assessment



 i.Countryspecific                       X      Security issues    Gov. security measures specially
                                                                   inrural areas.
 ii.Sub-nationallevel                X          Transfers to most TA components quality control
                                                parts of the      reviews - strengthening of
                                                country           internal Audit.
 iii.Entityspecific                           X                    Experience executing WB
                                                                   projects.
 iv. Project specific                    X      All cash transfer  Same as for Sub-national level.
                                                programs carry
                                                certain risks

 i.ImplementingAgency                    X      FIP has been       Continue with Loan 7050 project
                                                merged with        team.
                                                Accidn Social
 ii.FlowofFunds                      X          Cash transfer      Internal and external audit,
                                                program            Quality Control.
 iii.Staffing                            X                         For component 1no changes are
                                                                   expected.
 iv. Accounting procedures                    X                    Ruled by local legal
                                                                   pronouncements accepted by the
                                                                   Bank.
 v. InTernalExternal Audit                    X Goodexperience
                                                inprior projects
 vi. Reporting & Monitoring                   X Idemiv
 vii. Information Systems                     X STONE system       New system implemented.

I                                               installed

 H-High       S-Substantial     M-Moderate      L-Low

 The overall Financial Management risk associated with the Project was rated as "moderate." The
 most important area of concern and potential risks involves controls over payments, including:

      (a) The risk that people other than the intended beneficiaries would claim the transfers of
          grants. This i s a problem to some extent in any welfare program in any country in the
          world. The financial institution controls in place limit this risk, including random-sample
          Quality Control Reviews and social control mechanisms (including publicly disclosing lists
          of beneficiaries at the local level).




                                                   60

    (b) The risk that the funds do not arrive to the beneficiaries. Differences between the amounts
       transferred and actual amounts disbursed to beneficiaries, including the issue o f unclaimed
       benefits during a certain period of time. This risk i s mitigated by: (a) the fact that DAPR-
        Acci6n Social -FIP monitors the financial institution transfers of un-disbursed amounts
        back to a special account in pesos for further use by the DAPR-Acci6n Social-FIP in new
        eligible grants; and (b) annual audits will ensure that: (i)at least 85% of funds transferred
        were paid to the beneficiaries; and (ii) funds transferred via SOEs, are adjusted deducting
        the returns originated ingrants not collected.
    (c) The accuracy and the decentralized process for collecting data that i s used for identifying
        and selecting beneficiaries. The technical components of the proposed project will greatly
        strengthen the accuracy of the data processes, which will help mitigate this risk.

New eligibility Policy. The project incorporates the Bank's policy on eligibility for Bank
financing (OP/BP 6.00). This policy was approved by the Bank Board of Directors on April 13,
2004. To implement the policy, the Country Financing Parameters for Colombia were approved
by the LCR Regional Vice president inMay 2004. Inaccordance with the mentioned policy, the
proposed project would finance the cost of reasonable taxes and duties.




                                                 61

                             Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
                             COLOMBIA: Social Safety NetProject

1. General

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The various items under different
expenditure categories are described in general below. For each contract to be financed by the
Loadcredit, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for
pre-qualification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank in the Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at
least annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements
ininstitutional capacity.

Procurement of Goods: Goods procured under this project would include computer equipment
and peripherals; software and office equipment and furniture. The procurement will be done
using the Bank's SBD for all ICB. For NCB and shopping, bidding documents agreed with or
satisfactory to the Bank will be used.

Procurement of non-consulting services: Procurement of some non-consulting services i s
expected basically in the areas of data collection and logistics services; publications and
technological support services.
Goods and non-consulting services contracts estimated to cost US$ 250,000 and up will be
procured under International Competitive Bidding procedures using Bank Standard Bidding
Documents; contracts estimated to cost more than US$ 50,000 equivalent but less than U S
$250,000 equivalent may be procuredusingNational Competitive Bidding(NCB) procedures.
The procurement will be done using Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for all ICB and
National Standard Bidding Documents agreed with the Bank. Under NCB, all the following
special provisions agreed with the Colombian Government for procurement under Bank-financed
loans, grants and credits will apply:
(a) All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or Colombians, will be treated
    equally and, particularly, no preference will be granted to any bidder or group of bidders for
    bidevaluationpurposes. Bidders shall be allowed to submit their bidsby hand or through the
    post office or private mailing services. There shall not be any requirement for any bidder to
    show evidence of the bidder's registration in any public registry, chamber of commerce or
    similar entity, whether in Colombia or elsewhere, or to appoint a representative domiciled in
    Colombia, unless and until such bidder i s awarded the corresponding contract.
(b) Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their representatives shall be
    allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and place for the opening meeting shall be set
    forth in the bidding documents. Bid opening shall coincide with, or take place promptly
    after, the final date and time of the period for bid submission stipulated in the bidding
    documents.



                                                 62

(c) Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the responsive bidder
    who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of capability and whose bidhas been
    determined to be the lowest evaluated bid. Such determination shall be made exclusively on
    the basis of the specifications, conditions and evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding
    documents. If any factor additional to the amount or amounts of each bid i s to be considered
    in bid evaluation, such factor or factors and the quantified manner on which they will be
    applied for purposes of determining the lowest evaluated bid shall be precisely stipulated in
    the bidding documents. For purposes of bidevaluation and comparison, the only bid amount
    or amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the
    corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic errors.
(d) The provisions of paragraph 2.46 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, more specifically,
    bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the persons officially charged with the task
    of comparing and/or evaluating the bids while they are performing their official duties,
    without the corresponding bidder's written authorization. Moreover, bidders shall not be
    required to provide such authorization as a condition to be entitled to bid.                This
    confidentiality requirement shall apply untilthe award of contract i s notified to the successful
    bidder. Thereafter, confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to those bid portions for which
    confidentiality has been specifically requested by the bidder in question.
Contracts for eligible goods and non-consulting services which cannot be grouped into larger
biddingpackages and estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract may be procured using
shopping procedures based on a sample request for quotations satisfactory to the Bank.

Procurement of Minor Civil Works: Minor civil works contracts for small remodeling and
rehabilitation works estimated to cost under US$ 50,000 equivalent per contract, may be
procured via shopping under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations
obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications,
the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest
price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the
contract successfully.

Selection of Consultants: Analytical, assessment, identification and other studies; monitoring
and evaluation services; training, and other consulting services will be financed under this Loan.
Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$ 350,000 equivalent per
contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. It i s expected that some NGOs, universities and
research institutions may participate in the provision of consultants services needed for this
project.

Operating Costs: Travel costs related to project activities, office consumables, office rental,
communications; Internet connectivity and utilities costs; reasonable costs associated to pro-iect
implementation activities and to commercial bank fees for handling disbursements, etc.

The procurement procedures and SBDs to be used for each procurement method, as well as
model contracts for works and goods procured, are presented inthe Operations Manual.


                                                 63

2. Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement

Procurement activities for component 1 will be carried out by DAPR-Acci6n Social-FP in
accordance with established procedures. The unit i s very knowledgeable about Bank guidelines
and its capacity has been assessedas very satisfactory.

Procurement activities for component 2 will be carried out by FONADE. An update of the
assessment of the capacity of this organization to implement procurement actions for the project
has been carried out by the Bank on June 28, 2005, determining that this agency has already been
and currently i s implementing procurement under Bank-financed projects, in view of which a
formal assessment i s not necessary. The data of the proposed FONADE staff expected to be
working in the project's procurement operations show prior experience in Bank-funded
procurement, and two of them have attended training on Bank procurement Guidelines. We
expect interaction with FONADE's Team during project procurement implementation:

The overall project risk for procurement i s AVERAGE.

3. Procurement Plan

The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a procurement plan for project implementation which
provides the basis for the procurement methods.          This plan has been agreed between the
Borrower and the Project Team on July 27, 2005, and i s available in project files. It will also be
available in the project's database and in the Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan
will be updated in agreement with the Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual
project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

4. Frequency of Procurement Supervision

In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity
assessment of the Implementing Agency has recommended one supervision mission per year to
visit the field to carry out post review of procurement actions.

5. Details of the Procurement Arrangements Involving International Competition

a. Goods and Non Consulting Services

ICB contracts estimated to cost above US$ 250,000 for goods and non-consulting services and
all direct contracting will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

b. Consulting Services

Consultancy services (firms) estimated to cost above US$ 200,000 per contract and any single
source selection of consultants (firms) will be subject to prior review by the Bank.




                                                  64

Short lists composed entirely of national consultants: Short lists of consultants for services
estimated to cost less than US$ 350,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant
Guidelines.




                                            65

                           Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis

                             COLOMBIA: Social Safety NetProject


The economic impact analysis draws on the results of the impact evaluation of the Familias en
Accidn program undertaken to assess the program effect on the main outcome indicators based
on the comparison between changes in these indicators before and after the program
implementation for the treatment group and a control group with similar characteristics. The
fiscal impact and sustainability analysis looks at the evaluation of the project impact on
government spending. The indirect costs related to the needed increase i s the supply of social
services in program municipalities which i s likely to result from the conditions attached to the
transfer disbursement to beneficiary households are not included owing to lack of data. This
may overestimate the net benefits of the project, however based on the experience with the
project implementation so far these extra costs have been limited.

EconomicImpact Analysis

The main objective of the Fumilias program i s to improve the living conditions and human
capital investment of poor households. The expected beneficiaries of the program are about 1.4
million children living in 400,000 poor households resident in program municipalities, including
the recent pilot expansion to urban centers in El PozodCartagena and SoachdBogota to assess
the viability of the conditional cash transfer scheme in urban environments.            The program
specific objectives include the following:


    Increase primary school enrollment, reduce drop out and repetition rates and increase school
    attendance to at least 80 percent of the school days.

    Increase secondary school participation, reduce drop out rates, and raise lifetime income
    generation capacity.

    Raise nutrition and health status of vulnerable children in preschool age to foster their
    healthy growth and development and improve their health conditions and their lifetime
    capacity to generate income for themselves and their families.

    Increase childcare practices in poor households in nutrition, health, and nonviolent conflict
    resolution skills to prevent youth participation in violent activities and families' awareness of
    health and nutrition issues.

    Increase poor households' income smoothing ability to reduce the risk of poverty and
    inefficient coping strategies such as the reduction of basic consumption expenses.

The conditional cash transfer program consists of different type of grants. Household with
children of preschool age will be given a nutrition and health grant of approximately US$ 20 per
month independent of the number of children in the household. This grant i s conditional on
regular visits at health centers and growth and development controls. The education grants are




                                                 66

provided to each primary and secondary school child in poor households participating in the
program, conditional on school attendance for at least 80 percent of the school days.

The program impact consists of two main effects.                          The first impact i s given by the
continuation of the program that would be financed under the proposed project.                            Had the
program been terminated after four years as originally envisioned, it i s estimated that the
additional positive effects in terms of school attendance and regular health visit and progress on
most indicators, including children growth and development, would stop despite the persistent
effects of the past investment in human capital. The second effect i s related to the expansion in
the coverage of the program. The program has so far covered around 340,000 households with
about 1.2 million children benefiting from either the nutritiodhealth grant or the education grant
or both. With the program expansion supported by this project the number of beneficiaries
would grow by 17 percent reaching 1.4 million children and youth benefiting from the transfers
from 400,000 households (60,000 more than under the current arrangement). The long-term
vision of the authorities i s to have 1.4 million families included in the CCT program by 2019,
with an average annual increase incoverage o f about 9 percent.

The program i s estimated to have a large impact on secondary school participation. Both
enrollment and drop out rates are expected to improve as a result of the conditions in the cash
transfers (Table 10). Based on the assumption that the impact on enrollment remains constant
over time from the impact evaluation results and assuming also the urban/mral differences and
primary/secondary school differentiated impact will remain constant, we estimate an
improvement in school attendance, mostly in secondary school. The program i s estimated to
lead to an average increase in years of education by more than 0.2 years in secondary school and
almost 0.1 years inprimary school. This translates approximately into a net present value gain of
about US$260 for primary school and US$780 for secondary school. l2

The program i s also expected to reduce chronic malnutrition among preschoolchildren. Both the
probability of suffering from acute malnutrition and the probability of suffering from global
malnutrition are expected to fall in the target population as a result of the program, with the latter
probability showing a more pronounced decline.                   The nutritional intake of children i s also
expected to improve in the beneficiary population relative to the absence of a program. There
are important indirect effects associated with this result. Reducing chronic malnutrition has
important effects in children's well-being and their future income generation capacity. Improved
anthropometric development persists over the entire life and can raise lifetime earnings by as
much as 3 percent. Also better health conditions are related to increased cognitive development,
increased school participation, and lower age at completing grades, eventually raising
productivity.




  This calculation i s basedon an estimated net present value of an additional year of US$ 2,600 for primary
education and US$3,600 for secondary school, using a work life span of 40 years and a discount rate of 6 percent.


                                                         67

                 Table 13. Program Impact on School Enrollment (Incidence inpercent)

                                                                            Enrollment
            Benefits on target population
                                                       Without the                  With the
                                                        program 4/                program 4/          Difference
            Continuing the Program 1/

            Primary School                                             84.5                   86.0             1.5
            Secondary School                                           65.O                   72.2             7.2
            Total                                                      78.7                   81.8             3.2

            Expandingthe Program 2/

            Primary School                                             94.1                   94.4             0.3
            Secondary School                                           63.9                   72.7             8.8
            Total                                                      85.O                   87.9             2.8

            Total Impact 3/

            Primary School                                             85.9                   87.3             1.3
            Secondary School                                           64.8                   72.2             7.4
            Total                                                      79.6                   82.8             3.1

1/ Effecc   f continuingthe program for the existing 340,000 beneficiary households for an additional year.
21. Effect of expandingthe coverage of the program to an additional 60,000 households for one year without any other changes.
31Effects estimated on the basis of the impact evaluation results of the program after 1-2years of implementation.
4/ Impact on enrollment rates of the proposed project, based on the estimated effect o f Fumilias resulting from the impact
evaluation of the program carried out by DNP-SINERGIA. Base values are before program enrollment levels for the households
that already benefit from Furnilias and the average enrollment rate in the control group of the evaluation exercise for the new
beneficiary households.
Sources: DNP-SINERGIA, DNP




                                                                68

 Table 14. ProgramImpacton ChildrenHealthStatus and Nutrition(Incidenceinpercent)1/

                                                                         No Program           Program        Difference



 Probability of acute malnutrition                                                      2.2          2.2               0.0
 Probability of global malnutrition                                                     1.5           1.4             -0.1
 Probability of suffering from Acute Diarrhea                                           6.0          5.2              -0.8
 Number of days children eat eggs                                                       2.4          4.1               1.7
 Number of days children eat vegetables                                                 1.3          3.1               1.8
 Number of days children eat meat                                                       2.0          4.0               2.0


 / Results reported here show the aggregate effect o f continuing the program and expanding its coverage. The program imF ict is
estimated on the basis o f the effects of Farnilins found in the impact evaluation analysis. These results may overestimate the
success of the program for those households that are already in the program because they assume that marginal and average
effects coincide, while marginal effects could decline for the po@ation   that has already experienced significant improvements.
However, the no program level of all indicators i s such that the!assumption of constant average effects for an additional year is
sufficiently realistic.
Source: DNP-SINERGIA

The program will also have a positive impact on vaccination coverage and will reduce the
incidence of acute diarrhea. Visits to health centers are expected to increase by almost one-
third, particularly inrural areas, while inurban areas the increase will be more limited, but still at
more than 20 percent. As a result, the share of the population regularly visiting health centers i s
expected to increase by 6 percentage points inurban areas and 7 percentage points in rural areas.
The probability of having a full vaccination against DPT will increase by 12 percent in the target
population, an increase in coverage by more than 8 percentage points.                                  The probability of
suffering from any disease will also fall in the program population by 8 percent to 49 percent,
down from 53 percent in the no program scenario. This effect i s expected to be 50 percent larger
in urban areas than in rural areas if the differentiated results found for the program evaluation
study remain constant over time. This result also underlines the potential health impact on the
programexpansion to urban centers.

The program is also likely to increase income generation capacity among poor households.
Women in program households are on average almost 20 percent more likely to earn an income
than non-program households (see Chart). However, the effect i s estimated to be stronger in the
urban areas from where most of the additional 60,000 households included in the program will
be drawn.         For those new household the impact on labor market participation and income
generation capacity i s estimated to be the highest. The impact on child labor i s expected to be
small but negative (the program household will employ less children aged 10-17 years in both
urban and rural areas). This result i s affected by the small share of children working in these
target households (ranging between4 to 7 percent inurban and rural areas respectively).




                                                                69

                      Table 15. Probabilityof women's participationinthe labor market

                                      Program Impact onWomen's Labor Participation




                                                                                                         Urban
                                                                                                         Rural




                        Probability of earningan Frobabilityof earning an Probability of earning an
                                 income           incomefor households     income for households
                                                  with pre-schoolchildren    with school children


1/ The chart illustrates the percentage increase in the probability of women's participationin the labor market as a result of the
programby urban and rural areas.
Source: DNP-SINERGIA


Overall, program results thus far have been above expectations for most indicators. The impact
evaluation found a significant impact of the program on school attendance, nutrition, and
incidence of communicable disease, vaccination rates and development indicators for children.
The program also has a modest positive impact on poor households' income and employment
opportunities for women.               However, the results were below expectations for primary school
parti~ipation,'~possibly because the school enrollment levels in both rural and urban areas are
already very highin Colombia.

Experience from similar programs also shows that conditional cash transfers are effective
in reducing poverty.              The conditional cash transfer program adopted in Mexico (Progresul
Oportunidudes), with similar types of benefits and eligibility conditions as Fumilius, has been
found to be effective in protecting household consumption from economic shocks and fostering
investment in human capital.l4The program was also significantly increasing most children
development indicators, including children heights and weight, as a result of better health
conditions and higher nutritional intake triggered by the conditions in the program. Finally
studies also found that the conditional cash transfer program was effective in deterring
households from pulling children out of school and sending them to work to integrate poor
household incomes as a private risk management strategy to cope with shocks.15 Children aged
12-14 years saw their probability of working reduced by 7 percentage points on average as a
result of the program, with a 23 percent decrease in the incidence of child labor. Also the same
study finds that effects on educational enrollment of the cash transfer tend to be persistent over
time.    Similar results are found in the evaluation of conditional cash transfers in Central


l3The original expectation was for an increasein the enrollment rate by 10 percent to 90 percent.
14Jere R. Behrmanand John Hoddinott. 2004. An Evaluatrion of the Impact o f PROGRESA on Preschool Child
Heights, IFPRI Discussion Paper 104.
l5Sadoulet Elisabeth, Frederico Finan, Alan de Janvry, and Renos Vakis. 2004. "Can Conditional Cash Transfer
Programs Improve Social Risk Management? Lessons from Education and Child Labor Outcomes," Social
Protection Discussion Paper, No. 0420.


                                                                70

America, including in Honduras and Nicaragua.             For example, the impact evaluation study
conducted in Nicaragua16 finds that household income was increased by 18 percent as a result of
the program. The extra money households earned was mostly spent on food, education, and
health. However, labor market participation was not significantly affected by the program.
School attendance and enrollment were substantially increased under the program (23 percentage
points and 18 percentage points respectively), but initial enrollment rates were much lower than
in Colombia at 70 percent.        In tandem with increased schooling the percentage of children
working declined by 5 percentage points to 12 percent. The program also increased the share of
children younger than 3 year old who were regularly controlled for their health by more than 10
percentage points and vaccination rates climbed up by over one third. Finally, as in Colombia,
the more varied household diet resulted in a 5 percent decline in children were stunted, although
the incidence still remained highat almost 40 percent.

FiscalImpact and Sustainability

The program i s expected to expand its coverage by 17 percent in 2005 and would cost 0.1
percent of GDP on an annual basis. The increase in the number of households benefiting from
the conditional cash transfer will have both a direct and indirect cost impact on the budget of the
DAPR-Acci6n Social-FIP which i s managing the program at this stage. Total direct costs
amount to US$ 85 million or about 0.1 percent of GDP which will be financed by the Bank.
Domestic sources will be allocated mostly to operational expenditure.

Prospects of Familias en Accidn have been identified by the authorities. The authorities have
confirmed the commitment to institutionalize the conditional cash transfer program (CCT) as an
important part of the future Social Protection System. At present, DNP i s developing a medium-
term economic strategy "Visidn Colombia 2019" in which Familias i s identified as playing an
important role in achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDG), including in nutrition,
education, and poverty reduction. The goal i s to expand the program to 1.4 million families
(from the current 340,000) by the year 2019. Three options for the CCT's future institutional
home were identified: (i)    the program could be managed by Znstituto Colombiano de Bienestar
Familiar (ZCBF) with the program financing paid through parafiscales currently allocated to
other programs, through efficiency gains, or through budget transfers; (ii)             the program could
remain under the Presidencia and would be financed by budget resources following a
reallocation in expenditure policy priorities; and (iii)   the program could be administered directly
by the Ministry of Social Protection, with financing from the Social Protection Fund. The
authorities are currently preparing a document outlining the program's expansion, financing
needs, and the assumptions to reach the goals as part of the Colombia 2019 vision.                      The
document would also spell out in more detail the institutional and financing options mentioned
above.




l6John A. Maluccio. 2005. Copying the "Coffee Crisis" InCentral America: The Role of the NicaraguanRed de
Protection Social, FCNC DiscussionPaper 188.


                                                     71

                                Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
                             COLOMBIA: Social Safety Net Project

1. Environmental

The Project i s classified under Category C as it presents no potential adverse impacts.

2. Social assessmentand indigenous peoples developmentplan (IPDP)

Among the beneficiaries targeted by this project are Colombia's indigenous and Afro-Colombian
communities. A rapid social assessment was conducted in April 2005 to identify ways in which
the project design should be adjusted to ensure eligible indigenous and Afro-Colombian families
are reached and served by the program in a culturally appropriate way. The assessment drew
from the experience of ethnic beneficiaries already enrolled in the Familias en Accidn program
which provedto be a rich resource. The assessmentconsisted o f


    a. Review of relevant documents, including program documents, which enabled the team to
    select 3 municipalities for site visits, as well as legal documents regarding the special rights
    of ethnic minority groups inColombia.
    b. Visits to each of the selected sites (Toribio in the Department of Cauca -primarily
    indigenous; Natagaima in Department of Tolima - primarily indigenous; Unguia in the
    Department of Choc6 -primarily Afro-Colombian) which involved the following activities:
                Semi-structured interviews with key respondents in the community, including the
                mayor, women leaders and beneficiaries, child and youth beneficiaries, employees
                of the health and educational institutions that provide the services, administrative
                and traditional leaders, and organizations that represent these ethnic groups.

                Group meetings with beneficiaries (with a focus on girls) and their mothers.
                Visits to a sample villages that have benefited from the program.
                Collection and review o f program-relateddocuments at the municipal level.
    c. Analysis of data and preparation of final report with conclusions and recommendations,
    which are reflectedinthe text that follows.

The assessment was conducted by two Colombian consultants with assistance from three
members of the National staff of the Fumilias en Accidn program.

PopulationFigures for Indigenous and Afro-Colombian Peoples

According to updated National Census data produced by DANE, there are an estimated 785,356
indigenous people living in Colombia, which i s equivalent to roughly 2% of the total Colombian
population of 40 million. Indigenous populations are spread out across the Colombian territory.
The chart below provides information by ethnic groups and Department for some of the larger
indigenous groups.




                                                 72

         Table 16. Ethnic groups andDepartmentfor some of the larger indigenous groups
Group                             Department                                   Number
Nasa (Pa&)                        Most in Cauca                                 96,165
Wayuu                             L a Guajira                                   94,000
                                  Most in Choc6, Antioquia,                     50,000
Embera                            Caldas, and Risaralda
Quillasinga                       Narifio                                       45,600
Sinii                             C6rdoba                                       39,000
Sicuani                           Orinoauia and Amazonia                        20.500

According to DANE, there are now 757 reservations in Colombia with a total population of
744.466 inhabitants. These reservations occupy approximately 27% of the national territory with
a total area of roughly 30 millionhectares under title.

According to CONPES and to data gathered through the 2003 Quality of Life Survey, there are
3,448,389 or 8.6% Colombians who are ethnically Afro-Colombian. Other data presented by
organizations studying the Afro-Colombian population (Misidn de obsewacidn ... 2002)
suggests that there are as many as 10.5 million Afro-Colombians, representing 26% of the total
population.

Afro-Colombians are concentrated in coastal areas of the Pacific and Caribbean and are also
present in many of the river valleys where the plantation economy once thrived.              The
Departments that currently have the highest concentrations of Afro-Colombians are Choco
(85%), Magdalena (72%), Bolivar (66%), and Sucre (65%). In terms of population size, the
Departments with the largest numbers of Afro-Colombians are Valle (1,720,257), Antioquia
(1,215,985), Bolivar (1,208,l Sl),    Atlantic0 (956,628), Magdalena (872,633), and C6rdoba
(801,643).

Organizational and LegalAspects of Ethnicity
The resguardo or reservationi s the principal land ownership structure used by indigenous groups
in Colombia. It i s defined as "...a legal and socio-political institution made up of one or more
indigenous communities, which hold a collective property title offering them the same
guarantees as private property, possess a territory that i s managed by an autonomous
organization with its own set of norms." (Articulo 21 del Decreto 2164 de 1995)(Ibid. p. 496).

The "cabildo" i s both a figure of authority and an organizational structure. The "cabildo"
structure i s a local governance body elected by the indigenous community. It represents the
community in transactions with the Colombian State and manages community affairs, ensuring
that national laws and village by-laws are respected. Many indigenous groups have cabildo
federations at the regional, departmental, and national levels.         The three most prominent
indigenous apex organizations are the Organizacidn Nacional Indigena - ONIC, Autoridades
Indigenas de Colombia -AICO, and the Alianza Social Indigena -ASI.

Unlike the indigenous groups, the Afro-Colombian groups do not have traditional leadership
structures, but have drawn their strength from peasant organizations, which have played an
important role in establishing their special status as a significant ethnic group in Colombia.




                                                 73

These peasant groups are developing linkages with urban organizations representing Afro-
Colombians, which are serving to consolidate a national movement for this ethnic group.

The 1991 Colombian Constitution acknowledges the ethnic and cultural diversity of Colombia
(Article 7) and, for the first time, recognizes that society i s made up both of independent
individuals as well as collective subjects. Article 13 of the Constitution established that the
Colombian State must "promote conditions to ensure that equality i s real and effective and adopt
measures to favor those groups that have been discriminated or marginalized."

Article 55 of the 1991 Constitution, which was further developed with Law 70 in 1993, opened
the possibility of granting a collective title to areas in the river valleys with heavy concentrations
of Afro-Colombians. The law gives "Community Councils" the authority to manage the land
titling process and to regulate social, political, and economic affairs, including the control of
resources, inthese areas. Through the combined efforts of these organizations, Afro-Colombians
now hold collective title to more than 3.5 million hectares of land in Colombia.

The constitutional rights, given to the ethnic groups in accordance with International
Agreements, for the delivery of basic social services such as health care and education, are
principally:

    (i)"Government must ensure that interested indigenous peoples receive adequate health care
    services or that they receive the means to organize, deliver, and control these services
    themselves.. .', (C. 169-OR. Art.24).

    (ii) 691from2001regulatestheparticipationofethnicgroupsintheSocialSecurity
        Law
    System of Colombia, clearly protecting their rights and respecting their cultural integrity.

    (iii)..membersofanethnicgrouphavetherighttotrainingthatrespectsanddevelopstheir
         ".
    cultural identity" (C.P. Art. 68).

    (iv) The Law of Education - Law 115 de 1993 - includes a chapter (111) on Education for
    Ethnic Groups, which serves as a framework for ethnic education.              It was developed in
    response to demands by these groups for an education in accordance with their culture,
    language, traditions, and their own organization and articulated with the national educational
    system.

    (v) "Indigenous authorities can exercise judicial functions within their own territories, in
    accordance with their own norms and procedures as long as these are not in conflict with the
    Constitution and laws" (C.P. Art. 246).

    (vi) Inthe Afro-Colombian areas holding collective title to land, the Community Councils are
    the entities responsible for regulating social, political and economic affairs, including the
    control of resources. (Ley 70 de 1993).




                                                   74

The Socio-Economic Status of Ethnic Groups in Colombia

The methodologies used to conduct the poverty assessments in Colombia do not allow for a
systematic analysis of the results by ethnic group. Nonetheless, analysts can cross-referenced
this data with other information that has led to the general belief that there is a correlation
between ethnic groups and highrates of poverty.

Inthe case of the Afro-Colombians, the existing data document their poor living conditions. On
average, the Afro-Colombian populations have a per capita annual income of US$ 500 - 600,
compared to the national average of US$ 1,500.             Approximately 74% of Afro-Colombians
receive a monthly salary below the legal minimumof roughly US$ 130. The life expectancy of
these communities varies between 10and 30 5% below the national average. For example, in sub-
regions like Urabi in the western part of Antioquia and the Eastern Choc6, the life expectancy of
men i s only 55, compared to the national average of 65. In 1993, the percent of Unsatisfied
Basic Needs of the Afro-Colombian population exceeded 80% and the poverty rate was 76.4%,
compared to a national average of 37%.

Inboth the indigenous and Afro-Colombian communities, there is a high incidence of illnesses
associated with poverty, .such as intestinal parasites, acute diarrhea, and TB. These communities
also suffer from high rates of malnutrition. Frequent population displacements have further
aggravated these problems.

Educational levels also tend to be lower in ethnic communities. Datal7 suggest that the illiteracy
rate among Afro-Colombians i s 43% in rural areas and 20% in urban areas compared to the
national average of 23.4% in rural areas and 7.3% in urban areas. According to this data,
educational coverage i s lower among Afro-Colombian populations, with 60% of primary school
coverage rates in urban areas and 41% in rural areas, compared to the national average of 87%
and 73%.      Other evidence" suggests that school attendance rates of the Afro-Colombian
population are lower than the national average: Inrural areas, it i s 79% for children 5 to 11years
of age and only 56% for youth ages 12to 17.

Program Achievements inEthnic Populations

The Programa Familias en Accidn generated a high level of interest among ethnic groups and
appears to have had similar positive impacts on ethnic minority households and communities as
it has inother communities.

While the assessment revealed that the program has generally had a positive impact on the
indigenous and Afro-Colombian beneficiaries it serves, it also found that some aspects of the
program that could be improved in order to have a better impact on Colombia's ethnic minority
populations.




l7Defensoriu del Pueblo (1997), page 537 - 538.
18GenteNegru en Colombia,Olivier Barbery y Fernando Urrea, Editorial Lealon, CIDSELJNIVALLE-IDRD-
COLCIENCIAS)


                                                   75

Access to the Program: Access to the program i s no different for a Colombian belonging to an
ethnic group than for any other person. Beneficiary families must be qualified as Level 1 of
SISBEN, the national targeting mechanism that uses several socio-economic indicators to
categorize potential beneficiaries. This i s problematic inindigenous communities, whose leaders
feel that the indicators used by SISBEN are inappropriate for evaluating socio-economic
conditions of indigenous people. They feel that the program should rely on the local leadership
to identify eligible beneficiaries. Furthermore, many of the indigenous and Afro-Colombian
communities were not covered by the SISBEN former database when it was applied, due to their
geographic isolation and their location in areas affected by violence. Access to the program was
further limited in indigenous communities, because some local government officials declared
that the program was not for indigenous people.

Non-participation by Eligible Beneficiaries: The assessment found that many ethnic people
eligible to participate in the program based upon their SISBEN ranking, were not participating.
With further analysis, they found several reasons for this: a) the population was highly mobile,
so many eligible families and individuals had already left the area; b) the eligible beneficiary
could not afford the transport to pick up the benefit or did not understand the procedures due to
illiteracy; c) the local authorities in charge of the program discouraged eligible and interested
beneficiaries from participating by creating unnecessary administrative barriers; and d) the local
authorities in municipalities did not have the technical capacity to fulfill all of the requirements
of the program.

Monitoring System: The MIS for the Programa Familias en Accidn monitors the number of
families enrolled in the program and receiving benefits on a month-by-month basis. The system
does not differentiate participants by ethnic group. The inability to breakdown information by
ethnicity makes it difficult to compare performance across ethnic groups and thus identify
potential design problems that are the result cultural differences.

Limited Impact of Program on Secondary School Enrollment: The program has been less
effective in achieving high enrollment and attendance rates at the secondary level that it has at
the primary school level. This appears to be due to the large distances most have to go to attend
secondary school. This implies high transport and/or boarding costs that are not adequately
compensated by the program.

The IndigenousPeoples DevelopmentPlan(IPDP)

Based upon the findings, the social assessment team recommends the following to the Familias
en Accidn Program to improve its performance and impact on ethnic minority households and
communities. It should be noted that the recommendations do not address the broader SISBEN
issues since SISBEN i s managed outside the program's realm.

     (i) It is recommended to expand coverage in Afro-Colombian populated areas,
            particularly in the case of the Department of Chocb based on the new SISBEN
            database. (As of 2005, Quibd6, the capital city of Chocb, i s included inthe program)




                                                 76

   (ii) Toensurehighercoverageratesandsmootherprogramoperationinareasthathave
           significant indigenous and/or Afro-Colombian populations, the Program should
          organize a coordination committee made up of traditional leaders, local health and
          education officials that will meet at least quarterly to discuss strategies for achieving
          high coverage and participation rates and to identify any cultural insensitivities or
           other barriers affecting program success inthe municipality.

   (iii) Withthepurposeofstrengtheningwomen's self-esteem,itisrecommendedthatthe
          program integrate a new educational component for beneficiary mothers designed to
          build awareness of their rights and responsibilities as individuals, but also explore the
          cultural origins of the ethnic groups present in the area, in an effort to strengthen
          cultural identity while building greater tolerance from members of other ethnic
          groups. This program component should be delivered to all women living in areas
          with high numbers of indigenous and Afro-Colombian people, regardless of their
          ethnic origin, based upon the assumptions that all women need to be empowered and
          the behaviors of both majority and minority women need to be changed if stigma
           against ethnic minority i s to be eliminated.

   (iv>   The program should incorporate a question on the enrollment form regarding the
          beneficiary's ethnicity. This would enable the MIS to track beneficiary performance
          by ethnicity and thus better detect performance problems that may be caused by
           cultural differences and require more culturally sensitive program adaptations to
           correct. The programbudget will include some funding to finance the analysis of this
           data through a cultural lens and for follow-up work required to define appropriate
           corrective measures.

ActionPlan

A medium term action plan has been developed which will be implemented under the project,
forming part of the project's overall implementation plan. The plan consists basically of further
studies and the inclusion of some specific actions regarding the program's training strategy and
improving monitoring of the ethnic beneficiary population. The following actions are included
inthe plan which hasbeenagreed upon with the Colombianauthorities:


          A study to determine the specific needs of ethnic populations to informthe program's
           expansion. This will include, inter alia, an analysis of the indigenous census data, the
           variables and instruments of targeting, the mechanisms for coordination and
          consensus building and an estimate of the potential number of beneficiaries.
          A study to determine the program's promotion strategy in areas with indigenous and
          Afro-Colombian populations.
          Training for municipal staff (enlaces municipales) to become more aware of the
          ethnic population's specific characteristics and their own behaviors toward this
          population group.
          Promotion of more cooperation of the program with health facilities, particularly in
          the program's training activities (encuentros de cuidado).


                                                  77

(v) The program will initiate a process of internal data collection and analysis that will
    allow it to differentiate between families of the different ethnic groups. This will be
    done initially b y geographic area. In addition, the impact evaluation of the pilot in
    urban areas will include this topic and analyze data in accordance with ethnicity.




                                         78

                        Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision
                            COLOMBIA: Social Safety Net Project

   ~-
                                                     Planned                  Actual--
PCNreview                                         Feb 28,2005               Feb 28,2005
Initial PID to PIC                              March 10, 2005             March 10, 2005
Initial ISDS to PIC                              March 10, 2005            March 29, 2005
Pre-Appraisal                                    March 7, 2005              March 7, 2005
Appraisa1                                        June 14,2005               June 14,2005
Negotiations                                     June 28,2005               July 21,2005
Board/RVP approval                             November 8,2005
Planneddate of effectiveness                  November 15,2005
Planneddate of mid-termreview                  October 15, 2006
Plannedclosing date                           December 31.2007

Key institutions responsible for preparation of the project:
     National Department of Planning (DNP)
0    Ministry of Social Protection (MSP)
     Presidencia/Fondo de Inversidn para la Paz

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                                 Title                         Unit
Andrea Vermehren                      Senior Social Protection Specialist        LCSHD
Wendy Cunningham                              Senior Economist                   LCSHD
Maria Luisa Escobar                        Health LeadEconomist                  LCSHD
MarthaLaverde                            Senior Education Specialist             LCSHD
Emanuele Baldacci                             Senior Economist                   LCSHD
Mark Hagerstrom                             Country Sector Leader                LCSHD
Helena Ribe                                    Sector Manager                    LCSHD
Jose MMartinez                              Procurement Specialist               LCOPR
JosephFormoso                               Senior Finance Officer                LOAG
JeannetteEstupinan                    Financial Management Specialist            LCOAA
Gladys L6pez-Acevedo                          Senior Economist                    LCSPP
Jean Roger Mercier                             Lead Specialist                   ESDQC
Jairo Arboleda                       Senior Social Development Specialist         ESSD
Teresa Genta-Fons                             Senior Counselor                   LEGLA
Juan Carlos Alvarez                           Senior Counselor                   LEGLA
Tarcisio Castaneda                     Consultant in Social Protection           LCSHD
Francisco Ayala                        Consultant inTransfer Programs            LCSHD
Maria Claudia Vasquez                     Consultant in Operations               LCSHD
Leonard0 Frank Hernandez             Consultant (Social AssessmenUIPDP)          LCSHD
Aracelly Woodall                         Specialist in Project Costing           LCSHD
Michelle Mesen                               Language Specialist                 LCSHD
Sonia M.Levere                          Language Program Assistant               LCSHD




                                                 79

Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:
    1. Bank resources: US$ 170,000
   2. Trust funds: Not applicable
   3. Total: US$52,768

EstimatedApproval costs: US$ 170,000
Supervision costs: US$ 160,000
Estimated annual supervision cost: US$ 80,000




                                              80

                          Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File
                          COLOMBIA: Social Safety Net Project


1. ImpactEvaluationof Familias enAccidn Program-Subsidios condicionados de la Red de
  Apoyo Social. DAPR, FIP, DNP. BogotaDecember2004.

2. IDEA International. "Results-Based Management System (RBM) for Social Programs: A
   Review of International Experiences." Washington, D.C.,The World Bank. 2003.

3. Kusek, Jody Zall and Ray C. Rist. "Building Results-Based Monitoring and Evaluation
   Systems: Assessing Country Readiness." World Bank PREM-Note. 2004.

4. Ospina Bozzi, Sonia and Doris Ochoa. "El Sistema Nacional de Evaluacidn de Resultados
   de la Gestidn Pdblica (SINERGIA) de Colombia,)'in Nuria Cunill Grau and Sonia Ospina
   Bozzi, Evaluacidn de Resultados para una Gestidn Pdblica Moderna y Democra`tica:
   Experiencias Latinoamericanas. Caracas,CLAD. 2003.

5. World Bank. "Readiness Assessment--TowardsPerformance-BasedMonitoring and
   Evaluation inMexico." 2005.

6. Strategic Plan for StrengtheningandConsolidatingPerformance-basedMonitoring and
   Evaluation inColombia. SINERGIA, DNP, Direction of Public Policy Evaluation. 2005.

7. SocialAssistance inColombia. Diagnosis andProposals. Jairo Nbnez, Silvia Espinoza.
   2004.

8. Evaluacidn de Politicas Pdblicas, No. 1. Condiciones iniciales de 10s beneficiarios e
   Impactos preliminares. Programa Familias en Accidn. DNP, SINERGIA, BID y Banco
   Mundial. 2005.

9. Evaluacidn y Seguimiento en el Sistema de Proteccidn Social. Luis Carlos Corral. 2004.




                                            81

                N 0 00 0 9 0 00 Lc! c90  9 0 00 0  37
                                                    d




                                       c1




0    B   B
a


c
2e!  ae! a
          P
    Dc,.  e

         9
          z
c
1   c7
5        c
.-   B
     c   c
c        c Y
L    3
         LL
L   L

                                                Colombia
                                            StatementofIFC's
                                       Held andDisbursedPodolio
                                            As of 06/30/2005



                                                                        Held                   Disbursed

 FYApproval                                   Company         Loan Equity Quasi P d c Loan    Equity Quasi Partic
                                         2003 AAA              1824     0     0      0  18.24      0    0        0
                                         2002 BCSC                0     7      0      0     0      7    0        0
                                         2002 Bavaria          61.76   30     0 103.57  61.76    30     0 103.57
                                     1988193  CF delValle         o  0.22     o      u      n   0.22    0        0
                                         2001 CHMC             20.99 8.85   2.1      0   4.11   4.02   2.1       0
                                         2004 Cartones America    22    0     0      0     20      0    0        0
                                         2004 CatvajalS.A.       35     0    15      0      0      0     0       0
                                         2001 Cementos Caribe    2.7 3.86     0   5 18    2.7   3.86    0    5.18
                                         1999 Cotfinsura          0     0 20.45      0      0      0 20.45       0
                                         2003 DAVIVIENDA I 19.43        0     0      0  19.43      o    n        0
                                         2002 Inversura            0  1     5    0     0    0     15    0        0
                                         2002 OmimexOil           24    0     5      0    4.7      0     5       0
                                         1987 FRODESAL             0 0.59     0      0      0   0.59    0        0
 1977196                                      Promigas          1.25    0     0      0   1.25      0     0       0
                                         1995 Promisan             0  0.2     0      0      0    c.2     0       0
                                         2002 Proteccion           0  1     0    0     0    0     10     0       0
                                         2002 SIG                 56    0     0      0     56      0     0       0
                                         2001 Tolcemento        3.33    0     0   7.11      0      0     0       0

                     TotalFortfolio:                           264.7 75.72 42.55 115.86 188.19 7089 27.55 108.75




                                                              Loan Equity Quasi P d c
                                         2004 Bancafe              0 20.25    0      0
                                         2001 CHMC                 0 19.38    0      0
                                         2001 CHMC - NFL           0    0      0     0
                                         2004 CarrajalSA.          0    0    20    ' 0
                                         2005 ColpatriaTiar2   24.26    15    0      0
                                         2003 DAVIBIENDAI          0    0  1  0      0
I              Total Pending Commitment.                       24.26 54.63    30     0                            I




                                                    83

          Annex 14: Familias en Accio'nEvaluation: Methodology and Main Results''
                                  COLOMBIA: Social Safety NetProject

Background

This Annex briefly describes the main results of the evaluation of the Familias en Accio'n
conditional cash transfer program.                The program i s one of the three social safety net
interventions that were established by the Colombian authorities in the aftermath of the 1999
economic crisis to mitigate the economic impact of the recession and of the required fiscal
adjustment on the most vulnerable groups in the population. The other two programs that
constitute the Social Safety Net (Red de Apoyo Social) are Empleo en Accidn, a workfare
program targeted at about 300,000 individuals to create temporary employment opportunities for
poor unemployed workers, and Jdvenes en Accidn, a training program for about 100,000 young
unemployed in poor households. These programs were supported financially by the World Bank
through two investment operations2' and a series of programmatic adjustment lending operations
(SECAL, PLaRSSAL Iand 11) and by the IADB.

An impact evaluation of the social safety net programs has been carried out by the
Colombian authorities.              The National System for Result Evaluation (SINERGIA) of
Departamento Nacional de Planeacidn (DNP) has conducted comprehensive impact assessments
of all three social safety net programs, including Familias. The results have been used to revise
the program during their implementation and to identify weaknesses in the operational
procedures that could be corrected in the subsequent stages of the program implementation. The
evaluation results have also been key to defining the institutional arrangements for the
transformation of two of the three original social safety net programs (Jdvenes and Empleo) and
are being used in the discussion on the continuation of the conditional cash transfer program.

The impact evaluation of the social safety net programs has been the first step towards
promoting a broader agenda to foster transparency and social control of government
programs. Impact evaluation of social programs i s mandated in the Organic Budget Law.
Article 92 of this law requires periodic impact evaluation of all government programs and i s now
under final review by Parliament. This law provides a more comprehensive legal framework for
the National Evaluation Policy prepared by SINERGIA and to the Evaluation Committee created
in2004 to coordinate impact evaluation initiatives across different government agencies.

Program Design

The design of the impact evaluation methodology was based on the characteristics of the
program. Familias i s a conditional cash transfer program whose main objective i s to remove


l9This annex i s basedon information publishedinDNP-SINERGIA "Programa Familias in Accidn. Condiciones
iniciales del 10s benefciarios e impactos preliminares '' Evaluacidn de Politicas Pliblicas, 1, 2004; DNP-
SINERGIA, "Reportes de Evaluacidn," 11and 16,2004; andDNP-SINERGIA, "Red de Apoyo Social.
Conceptualizacidn y evaluacidn de impact0 Evaluacidn de Politicas Pliblicas, 3,2004.
                                            "
20CommunityWorks and EmploymentProject (7017-CO)approvedon May 11,2000 andHumanCapital
ProtectionProject(7050-CO) approved on March 29, 2001.


                                                          84

the factors that prevent investment in human capital for children leaving in poor households.
The program i s based on cash transfers to households that are classified as SISBEN 121living in
urban and rural areas of municipalities with a population of less than 100,000. The cash transfer
consisted of a nutritional subsidy to poor households with at least one child in the 0-7 age group,
and an educational subsidy for each child in the household aged 7 to 17 years, conditional on
school attendance. The payment of these subsidies was made conditional on school attendance
and regular visits to health centers to control the nutritional status and the health conditions of
the children.      Overall, during 2003 more than 234,000 children younger than 7 years have
received a subsidy of $ 46.500 per month (about US$ 22 per month) and were controlled
regularly in the health centers with regard to their nutritional and development status. More than
310,000 children aged 7 to 12 years received a monthly grant of $14,000 (about US$ 7 per
month) conditional on school attendance. More than 178,000 children aged 12 to 17 years
received a transfer of $ 28,000 per month (about US$ 13 per month) conditional on school
attendance. In order for the program to be implemented municipalities had to demonstrate their
ability to address the expected increase in the demand for social services triggered by the
program. Only municipalities that were able to guarantee an adequate supply of social services
were included in the program.

Program regions were selected on the basis of a mix of poverty and logistic elements. The
regions selected for participation in the program were those where the absolute number of
SISBEN 1households was the highest. Although this does not necessarily mean that these were
the regions were poverty incidence was the highest, it ensured that the region covered were those
with the majority of the poor. The second criterion used to include a region in the program was
the availability of an adequate supply of those services whose demand the conditional cash
transfer was aiming to increase. As mentioned above within the selected regions only those
municipalities with a population of 100,000 or less were included. An additional feature of the
selected municipalities i s that they could not be regional capitals and should have at least a bank
intheir territory to allow the direct payment of the cash transfer. The payment was made directly
to the beneficiary mothers to ensure the funds were not diverted from their main objective.
Finally, within each region, the selection of the program municipalities that met the conditions
above had to be based on the poverty ranking of the area they were located in. However, in
practice, the entry of the municipalities in the program reflected mostly their administrative and
logistical readiness and not the relative poverty ranking indicators.                          As a result, the
municipalities selected were not necessarily those with the largest number of poor households
reflecting a potential positive correlation between administrative capacity, ability to raise local
revenue, and the number of non poor households resident inthe municipality.

Over 340,000 beneficiary households (about lA of total poor population) were selected in
627 municipalities. The selection of beneficiary households within each program municipality
was based on the registers of the population classified on the basis of SISBEN. While in
principle the households classified as SISBEN 1and 2 should have been eligible for the program
the budget envelope was limited leading to the decision to include only the poorest households,

*'SISBENi   s the targeting system based on the synthesis of a set of economic and social indicators that denote
households' multidimensional poverty ranking. SISBEN classifies households into five mutually exclusive groups.
SISBEN 1 denotes the poorest household group, both SISBEN 1and 2 household have incomes below the official
poverty line.


                                                         85

Le., those classified as SISBEN 1, in the program. In addition, in order to avoid SISBEN data
manipulation to allow specific beneficiaries to enter the program a cut off date was established.
Only households with children younger than 18 years old and classified as SISBEN 1 as of
December 1999 were allowed into the program. After a pilot program in 22 municipalities the
total number of eligible municipalities was scaled up from the initial estimate of 330 to 627 (57
percent of the Colombian municipalities) to reflect the lower-than-expected participation in the
program of SISBEN 1 households due to the lack of updated information in the SISBEN
registers.22

Methodology of the evaluation

There are different methods available to evaluate the impact of social programs. The main
objective of impact evaluation i s to gauge the causal relationship between the intervention (e.g.,
the program) and the results observed in the beneficiary population. For example, in the case of
Familias it i s important to assess whether the investment in human capital in the beneficiary
population has increased significantly as a result of the program. Inorder to be able to assess the
causal impact of the program it i s important to separate the effects that would have been
observed inthe beneficiary population independently of the intervention and those changes inthe
outcome variables that are the effect of the program. If it i s possible to implement the program
for a random group of beneficiaries whose main characteristics are similar to the control group
(individuals who have not benefited from the program) the net effect of the program would be
given by the change in the outcome variables in the treatment group during the program relative
to the pre-program conditions, minus the same change in the control group (difference in
difference estimator).        When this experimental design i s not feasible, it i s still possible to
estimate the net effect of the program creating a control group that, although not randomly
selected, has similar characteristics to the beneficiary group using statistical methods such as the
propensity score matching or instrumental variables.

The impact evaluation of Familias was based on a quasi-experimental approach.                               The
procedure to select the treatment and control groups for the evaluation was based on two separate
steps. In the first stage the municipalities belonging to the treatment and the control group were
defined. The former were selected out of the 627 program municipalities and the latter out of the
remaining 200 potentially eligible municipalities that were excluded from the program for
various reasons, including the absence of a local bank or lack of available data to calculate the
SISBEN index. In order for the treatment and control groups to include municipalities with
similar characteristics a statistical procedures was carried out that allowed to match the
municipalities in the two groups that has similar levels of 25 variables, including welfare,
education, and health status indicators, region, urbanization rate. As a result of this matching
exercise 57 treatment municipalities and 62 control municipalities were randomly selected. As a
second step a sample was extracted from these municipalities consisting of 11,200 households
for the control group and 8,600 households in the treatment group with reasonable similar
characteristics, including their urban-rural distribution.




22Since then the SISBEN register has been updated in 2003 to include more recent information on the resident
population of the municipalities.


                                                      86

The evaluation has been conducted at three different moments in time.23 The first analysis
to define the benchmark indicators for treatment and control group households and the
preliminary impact of the program has been conducted in July-September 2002. A second
analysis aimed at assessing the short-term impact of the program was carried out in July-
December 2003. Finally, the evaluation will be completedby an assessment of the medium-term
effects of the program in the period July-December 2005.

Objective of the evaluation

The impact evaluation covered five broad areas of analysis. The first objective of the impact
evaluation was to assess the effect of the program in fostering investment in human capital and
reducing poverty among the beneficiary households.                     A related objective was to assess the
specific impact of the different components of the program and their relative effectiveness. In
the case of Fumilius these included school attendance, health conditions, and nutritional levels
for children. A third purpose was to assess the effectiveness of the targeting system and the
degree of vertical and horizontal efficiency in the program.24 A fourth aim of the evaluation was
to conduct a cost-benefit analysis of the program in order to be able to assess the relative
effectiveness of this program compared with other possible forms of anti-poverty interventions.
A final objective of the evaluation was to assess the operational management of the different
stages of the program implementation with a view to identifying weakness in the procedures and
remedial actions to strengthen the program implementation. The preliminary results of the
evaluation cover the first three areas. Successive analyses to be conducted in the course of 2005
will expand there results and will assess the remaining two areas.

Preliminary results of the evaluation

Fumilius has been successful in meeting its main objectives. Both poverty reduction and
investment in human capital have been statistically higher in the treatment group than in the
control households reflecting the impact of the program. The program was also relatively well
targeted with high vertical and horizontal efficiency. Finally, the program does not seem to have
interfered negatively with copying mechanisms implemented by poor households and does not
seem to have created significant disincentives to saving and labor market participation of the
adult population.

The program has generally been well targeted to the poor but not well focused on SISBEN
1households. Almost 91 percent of the beneficiaries of the program have an income that is
lower than the poverty line calculated on the basis of household consumption. Almost 73
percent of the program beneficiaries are poor according to the Living Conditions Index25and 70
percent are poor on the basis of the Unsatisfied Basic Needs index. Nevertheless, 9 percent of
program participants are not considered poor based on the consumption poverty line, thereby

23 The evaluation has been carried out by the Institute for Fiscal Studies of London in association with the private
companies Econometria and SEI. The evaluation was carried out under the supervision of SINERGIA.
24Vertical efficiency measuresthe degree to which program beneficiaries meet the eligibility conditions. This
depends on the share of individuals included in the program that were not poor. Horizontal efficiency measures the
degree to which the program excludes the eligible population and i s given by the shareof poor covered by the
program as a ratio of the total number of poor.
25indice de Condiciones de Vida


                                                           87

reducing the effectiveness of the program in achieving poverty reduction and an effective use of
public resources. This i s in part related to the beneficiary selection procedures mentioned above
and the inability of the SISBEN index to capture well the poor population in certain areas. The
distribution of the program beneficiaries by SISBEN level shows that more than 20 percent of
the beneficiaries are at SISBEN level 3 or higher, which include mostly the nonpoor population.
About 37 percent of the beneficiaries are classified as SISBEN 1 and almost 42 percent are
classified as SISBEN. While this shows some weakness in the beneficiary selection procedures
it has to be borne in mindthat both SISBEN 1and 2 levels include households that are below the
poverty line and that the characteristics of households ranked as SISBEN 1 and 2 are generally
statistically similar.

                                 Table 17. SISBEN beneficiaries
               I
                        Beneficiaries of Familias by level of the SISBEN
                                                index




                            21O/o




                               42%




                I




                                                  88

The impact of the program on household consumption has been positive and significant.
The consumption of basic goods increased for program households as a result of the conditional
cash transfer by 15-19 percent.      This increase i s mostly concentrated on food with high
nutritional content with an increase in average consumption on this items of $40,000-50,000 per
month (US$ 19-24 per month), clothing and shoes for children ($ 20,000 per month per
householdor US$ lo), school items and transportation ($8,000 per month or US$4). Children in
beneficiary households were found to consume proteins on average 1.2 times more than non
program households with similar characteristics. While generally this increase in higher in rural
areas for items such as milk, eggs, chicken, fish, corn and vegetables, meat and cheese
consumption increased more in urban areas.         The evaluation also found no evidence of
expenditure diversion to items such as tobacco and alcohol as a result of the program, in part as a
result of the direct payment of the subsidy to mothers.


                  Table 18. Impact of the program by household consumption

                      Impact of the program on food consumption (number
                      of days in a week in which food items are consumed)


                 1.2 T-

                   I
                 0.8
                 0.6                                                         Urban
                                                                                    ~




                 0.4                                                         Rural ,

                 0.2
                   0




                                                89

Program impact on children nutrition and health was also significant. Chronic malnutrition
for children aged 0-2 years was reduced by 10 percent in rural areas where malnutrition
incidence i s highest. Height and weight indicators for children were generally higher in the
treatment group than in the control group with an increase during the program period due to the
cash transfer. Gains were more substantial for children living in urban areas but also children in
rural areas saw an improvement in these biometric indicators. On average children younger than
2 years old were 0.8 cm taller than children in the control group, and children older than 4 were
0.6 cm taller than in the control group. Acute diarrhea prevalence was halved for children
younger than 4 years old in rural areas, while DPT immunization rates increased significantly for
children living in rural areas as a result of the assistance for growth and development controls
provided to households under the program. Results for urban areas do not show a statistically
significant impact.

The largest impact of the program on education has been for secondary school students.
Secondary school attendance increased by 14 percentage points to 89.2 percent in rural areas and
by almost 6 percent to 93.6 percent in urban areas as a result of the program. Improvements
were smaller for primary school attendance (children aged 7-13 years) with an increase of school
attendance by 2 percentage points to 87 percent. Improvements in urban areas for primary
school attendance are lower reflecting an initial high level of school participation in these areas.
As a result of higher school attendance, child work was reduced for the program households. In
rural areas child work declined by 6 percent due to the program and in urban areas and the
number of hours worked by youth aged 14-17 years decline by 80-100 hours per month. The
reduction in child labor, mostly in the 10-13 age group, was in part offset by higher adult
employment, mostly women in urban areas and men in rural areas. Children aged 14-17 did not
significantly reduce labor market participation but in the treatment group we observe a
significant decline in the number of hours worked. This reflects an adjustment in labor market
behavior of these children that were given incentives under the program to attend school
regularly.26

The impact of the program has also been positively assessed by the beneficiaries. In depth
interviews with 946 individuals beneficiaries of the program in 15 municipalities show that
beneficiaries report an improvement in their perception of the school performance of their
children. According to the respondents, the improvements in the material conditions of the
childrenhave had a positive impact on school performance. Also the level of self-esteem and the
overall perception of well-being have improved both among program participants and local
government officials. Beneficiaries, however, also reported weaknesses in the program design
that prevented participation or made it more difficult.                       Among others the interviewed
beneficiaries mentioned difficulties in applying for the program due to lack of available forms,
lack of sufficient incomes to pay the school fees, and high transport costs. They also report
difficulties in certain area to access the cash transfers as a result o f long lines in the local banks,
inadequate opening times, and lack of information of the bank employees on the program
procedures.       Mothers also mentioned the transport difficulties encountered in certifying
attendance inthe health centers to control the nutritional status of their children inrural areas, the



26As part of the conditions under the program children had to attend at least 80 percent of classes in order to be
eligible for the education subsidy.


                                                       '90

excessive cost to access health care facilities, and problems related with the consequences of the
internal conflict and the displacement of the population in conflict affected areas.

                 Table 19. Increase inschool enrollment -rural and urban areas

                       Increase in the school enrolmnt probability due to the program (in percent)




                                Urban                                 Rural



There are also preliminary indications of moderate additional indirect effects of the
program on household demographic behavior and women's empowerment?' As a result of
the design of the program beneficiary households had an incentive to reduce fertility levels as the
nutrition grants was independent of the number of children. However, the education subsidy was
related to the number of school children regularly attending school in beneficiary households.
Preliminary results point to a modest reduction in fertility as measures by gross and net birth
rates in the treatment group, mostly in rural areas.                     However, it i s not clear from these
preliminary analyses whether this decline i s due to a significant fall in fertility intensity as
opposed to a change in calendar. There i s also preliminary evidence that the program slightly
reduced the probability o f migration from treatment municipalities relative to the control group,
particularly in rural areas and for households who owned their house. Women empowerment as
measured by the role o f women in key decisions regarding the family did not increase
significantly as a result o f the program. However, the program did increase the share of cases
when women decide on how to spend the householdbudget in the treatment group.

Conclusion

Overall the preliminary impact evaluation of the program conducted so far has provided
positive results. The main poverty reduction and human capital investment objectives of the
programs have been achieved for the beneficiary population. The evaluation also shows positive
results on adult labor force participation (particularly women in urban areas), some evidence of a
reduction in child labor, and lack of leakages o f the cash transfers to nonpriority expenditure
items. However, the targeting of the program could be improved, including by revising the


21DAPR-FIPandDNP. 2004. Evaluacidn del Impact0 del Programa Familias en Accidn. Subsidios Condicionados
del la Red de Apoyo Social. Primer Seguimiento. Informe Preliminar Sobre Otros Efectos del Programa,Bogota,
December.


                                                         91

SISBEN methodology, updating the SISBEN registries more frequently, and using additional
targeting instruments to enhance the vertical and horizontal efficiency of the program. The large
share of beneficiaries classified as SISBEN 3 or higher also indicates weaknesses in the social
control system both at the central and local levels that would need to be addressed as the
program implementationi s expanded. The results also show that the impact of different program
components vary across areas, with rural areas lagging behind urban areas in some case due to
lack of adequate infrastructure, higher transport costs, lack of information of the program
procedures. Improving information and reducing the indirect cost of access to the program,
particularly for poor households in rural areas, i s important to extend its effectiveness.




                                                  92

           Annex 15: Colombia's Monitoring and Evaluation System (SINERGIA)
                                COLOMBIA: Social Safety NetProject


The National Evaluation System of Public Sector Performance - SINERGIA - was created in
1991 through a legal congressional mandate. It was first implemented in 1994 as part of a
process of political and institutional modernization. SINERGIA' s mandate i s to measure and
track public administration results, to generate adequate information for resource allocation, and
to improve the effectiveness of the National Development Plan formulation and implementation.
The Evaluation Department (DEPP) at the National Planning Department (DNP) i s in charge of
the technical coordination of SINERGIA. The institutions participating in SINERGIA and their
responsibilities are:
    National Council of Economic and Social Policy - CONPES: maximum stage of System's
    orientation and decision.
    Inter-sectoral Evaluation and Results Management Committee: in charge of technical
    coordination and articulation of evaluation and budgeting processes.
    DEPP at DNP: responsible for the System's technical coordination, defines methodologies,
    quality standards and technical support.
    Agency directors, decentralized sector and territorial entities participating in the design of
    M&Eof their programs.
    Citizens, Congress and control institutions are the SINERGIA users.
                                                   Figure 1
                                          amework crea




                                                     I I   I                       I
         Inter-sectorial Evaluation and Results
               Management Committee

            Presidency
            National PlanningDepartment - NPD
            Ministry ofmanagers(Budget Law)
                       Finance
            Sectorial              (ministers,  pub1
                                                     I"

                                                                         4   I
                         Accountability (Political and social control)
              The ministers to the President (Cabinet meeting, Conpes)
              President and ministers to the Congress (Annual report)




                                                       93

SINERGIA comprises three components: monitoring, strategic impact evaluations, andresults'
dissemination.
                                                    Figure 2
                                            System's components


  1.Resultsmonitoring
        -.                                                                          2. Strategic evaluations
            Reports on government                                                       Results evaluations
            goals and follow up on                         V                            Impact evaluations
            results                                              /                      Management and
            Government report to                                                        operations evaluations
                                                 v
            Congress


                                                    Ince tives




         3. Results dissemination and accountability
                 .
          n   Dissemination of results to general public through mass media incorporating civil
              society organizations to validate information
                     Direct distribution of detailed reports to public officials and key private sector
                     organizations

1. ResultsMonitoring
This component produces continuous information about policies, programs and/or entities results
inorder to compare its achievements with the government goals for the decision making process.
It also verifies the accomplishment of goals and priority objectives of the National Development
Plan.
The results monitoring component has accomplished the following three achievements. First, it
has institutionalized systematic monitoring of the National Development Plan results. Second, it
has introduced the programmatic classification of the investment budgets and the results-based
investment budget, and the President's results-based report to Congress. Third, it has further
integrated the new information system of management and programming of presidential goals -
SIGOB -to the SINERGIA system.
2. Strategic impact evaluations
The impact evaluation component was established to increase the effectiveness of the design and
execution of programs. An inter-sectoral Evaluation and Results Management Committee was
created to define and implement the impact evaluation agenda. Inthe context of the forthcoming
Organic Law on Evaluation, a strategic evaluation agenda and plan for the evaluation committee
i s being designed. Some criteria for the selection of program that will be evaluated are the
following: i)size of the program in terms of resources; ii)innovative aspects of the program or
policy; and iii)the potential for future applications.




                                                       94

The impact evaluation component has achieved the followed results: First, the approval of
CONPES 3294 which establishes the M&E standards for government management and creates
an Inter-sectorial Committee. Second, the forthcoming Organic budget law on evaluation that
states a legal mandate to carry out periodic impact evaluation according to the Committee's
agenda (Ministry of Finance, NPD). And finally, the increase of the annual evaluation budget
from 4.13% to 13.43% of programmable expenditures.
3. Results dissemination component
This component seeks to strengthen social control and evaluation dissemination work by
establishing alliances with civil society organizations.
The dissemination component has achieved the following goals. First, substantial mass media
dissemination by widely distributing information through the web, printed reports to public
officials, and civil society regarding public administration's results. This has been accomplished
through communitarian radio stations, citizens' opinion surveys, newspapers and experts
analysis. Second, the publication of a series of documents such as electronic bulletins called
"Reportes de Evaluacidn.''




                                                 95

                                                 Annex 16: Colombiaat a glance

                                                                                                                           9114/05

                                                                 Latin  Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                              America
                                                     Colombia  & Carib. middl't
                                                                        incomq        Development diamond'
2004
Population,mid-year(millions)                            45.3     541     2 43
GNI per capita(Aflasmethod, US$)                        2,000    3,600    1:584                         Lireexpectancy
GNI (Aflasmefhod, US5 billions)                          90.6    1,948    3,847,

Average annual growth, 1998-04
Population(%)                                             1.a      1.4
Labor force(%)                                            2.5      0.9                                                             Gross
                                                                                                                                   rimary
Most recentestimate (latest year available, 1998-04)                                                                          en Nllment
Poverty("hofpopulationbelow nationalpovertyline)           52                     1
Urban population(% of fofalpopulafion)                     77       77
Life expectancyat birtyyears)                              72       71
Infant mortality(per 1,000live births)                     18       28
Child malnutrition(" of childrenunder 5)                    7                                 Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater SOUrC@ ofpopulation)            92       89                  * e x*w
Literacy(% ofpopulation age 151)                           94       89
Gross primary enrollment(% of school-agepopulation)       110      123      119             - Colombia

   Male                                                   111      126      115                      Lower-middle-incomegroup
   Female                                                 110      122      113

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                1984     1994    2003                  Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                              38.3     81.7     80.0     97.
Gross capital formatiodGDP                       19.0    25.5     18.1
 Exportsof goods and servicesiGDP                11.9    15.0     20.4                                    T  Trade
Gross domesticsavingsiGDP                        18.4    19.6     15.7
Gross nationalsavingsiGDP                        15.2    19.1     15.6
Current account balanceiGDP                      -5.4    -4.5      -1.5
 Interestpayments/GDP                                                                                                      Capital
                                                  1.6      1.a     2.6                 Domestic

Total debVGDP                                    31.5    26.9     41.3                                                     formati'I

Total debt serviceiexports                       33.8    45.3     52.4
 Presentvalue of debVGDP                                          45.3
 Presentvalue of debvexports                                     215.4
                                                                                                         Indebtedness
                                      1984-94 1994-04    2003    2004                     -
 (average annualgrowth)                                                 2004-O$I
 GDP                                     4.3      1.5      4.0      4.0
sExportsof
  n p "pr p                                                                                                                           p
           goods and services            9.4      4.2      4.6      9.2         1.3


 STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                1984     1994     2003
 ("ofGDP)
 Agriculture                                     17.8    16.1     12.1
 Industry                                        34.0    31.4     29.3      30
   Manufacturing                                 22.6    16.1     14.2
 Services                                        48.2    52.5     58.6                          99        00     01    02     03

                                                                                                 _ _ I _       -0-
 Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure .         70.6    65.7     63.6      62 4      -60
 Generalgov'tfinal consumptionexpenditure        I1.O    14.7     20.7     ,,,j 22.j
                                                                            20.5
 Importsof goods and services                    12.5    20.9     22.8                                                             I
                                              1984-94 1994-04     2003
 (average annualgrowth)
 Agriculture                                      2.2     -0.2      2.4         1
 Industry                                         4.2     -0.3      6.3         4.j
   Manufacturing                                  2.4      0.2      3.5         4
 Services                                         4.2      5.4      3.2
 Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure            4.1      1.o      2.5
            I .                          re       5.4      4.9      0.6         3.3  -30
 Gross capital formation                          5.1     -3.3    21.6      13.3                            Exports       Imports
 Importsof goods and services                    10.5      0.0    10.1      16.7


 Note: 2004 data are preliminaryestimates.
 'Thediamondsshowfourkeyindicatorsinthecountry(inbold)comparedwithitsincome-groupaverage.Ifdataaremissing,thediamondwill
    be incomplete.




                                                                       96

                                                                                                                    Colombia

PRICES and GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                              1984   1994    2003     2004
Domestic prices
("A change)
Consumer prices                                16.0  22.6      6.5      5.5
Implicit GDP deflator                         22.2    45.4     8.2      7.0

Government finance
("A of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                 7.8   11.6    13.7    14.4
Current budget balance                         -1.2    1.5    -4.6     -4.9
Overall SUr!JlUS/defiCit                       -2.6   -1.4    -5.3     -5.5

TRADE
                                              1984   1994    2003     2004
(US$ millions)                                                               I Export    and import levels(US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                          3,728  8,816   12,812  16,216    j20,ooo
  Coffee                                      1,765  1,990    806      950
  Petroleum                                    480   1,313  3,383    4,180
  Manufactures                                 638  2,803   4,801    6,413
Total imports (cif)                          4,492  11,927  12,792  15,324                              .
  Food                                         207     923   1,417   1,554
  Fuel and energy                              468     308    239      262
  Capital goods                               1,587  5,072   3,671   4,110     1
Export price index (2000=100)                    6     38      40       41               98   99     00    01    02    03    04

Import price index (2000=100)                    6     37      41       39     1              0 Exports        0 Imports
Terms of trade (2000=700)                       105    102      97      106

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                              1984   1994    2003     2004
(US$ millions)                                                                  Current account balance to GDP ("A)

Exports of goods and services                4,557  10,630  15,572  19,146
Imports of goods and services                5,407  13,914  16,650  19,737     / ' T
Resource balance                              -850  -3,284  .1,078    -592

Net income                                   -1,537 -1,453  -3,446  -4,185
Net current transfers                           309  1,069   3,334   3,667

Current account balance                      -2,078 -3,668  -1,191  -1,110

Financing items (net)                        2,470   3,474   1,375  -1,431
Changes in net reserves                       -392     194   -184    2,541

Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)               7,862  10,921  13,540
Conversion rate (DEC, loca//US$)              100.8  826.5 2,877.7  2,628.6

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS                                                                                                I
                                              1984   1994    2003     2004                                ~-
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 2004 debt (US$ mill.)

Total debt outstanding and disbursed         12,039 21,940  33,Ol 1 39,359
   IBRD                                       1,578 2,629    3,241    3,490
   IDA                                           19     12       5        5                   G 3,865    A 3490
                                                                                                                  8 5

Total debt service                            1,623 5,570    8,824    8,152
   IBRD                                        274   1,054     344     346
   IDA                                            1      1       1        1

Composition of net resource flows
   Official grants                              15     45
   Official creditors                          618   -467    1,168     242         F 15133                             D 15,639
   Private creditors                           748  2,284   -1,981  -2,145
   Foreigndirect investment (net inflows)      584   1,446    837     1,265
   Portfolio equity (net inflows)                0    478                                            E: 1,227
World Bank program
   Commitments                                 740     159     905     687       A    IBRD                         E Bilateral
   Disbursements                               462    310     948      491       6 IDA
                                                                                    --       D Other multilateral
                                                                                              -                    F Private
   Principal repayments                        153    837     224      206       C IMF
                                                                                    -                              G Short-term
                                                                                                                    ---
   Net flows                                   308   -527     724      285
   Interestpayments                            121    218      121      141
   Net transfers                               187   -745     603       144


Development Economics                                                                                                    9114/05



                                                            97

   Annex 17: IBRD Map 33388
COLOMBIA: Social Safety Net Project




               98

                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 33388

                                                                       75W                                                                        70W

                                                                                                             Puerto Bolvar

            Caribbean Sea
                                                                                                  Rohacha          GU J I R ATo
                                                                        Santa Marta                             LA           Maracaibo
                                                               Barranquilla                    Pico
                                       AT L  N T I C O                                        Cristbal Coln
                                                                                               Cristbal Coln
                                                                                               (5,775 m)

                                            Cartegena


10N
                                                                   Maganqu
                                                                   Maganqu         AGDALENA             Valledupar                                   COLOMBIA


                                                                                              C E S A R                     Lago de
                                                                                                                           Maracaibo
                                                       Sincelejo                 M
     PANAMA                              Monteria

                           Acand                                     SUCRE         El Baneo


                                                                                                         NORTE DE
                                                                                                       SANTANDER
                                       Turbo
                                           C  R D O B A                                 LVAR Ocaa
                                                                                               Ocaa


                                                                                       BO                                 To                                    R.B. DE
                                                                                                                        Mrida
                                                                                                           Ccuta
                                                                                                           Ccuta




                                 Atrato   Cordillera                    Cauca                                                                              VENEZUELA
                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                       Guasdualito
                                                                                         Bucaramanga
                                                                    Yarumal

                                                   A N T I O Q U I A                Magdalena      Socorro
                                                                                                                                  A R A U C A
   PACIFIC                                          O                                                                                  Casanare
                                                                Medellin                                                                                                         Puerto
   OCEAN                     Quibdo
                                                                                                                                                        Puerto
                           C H O C                  ccidenta                         S A N TA N D E R             YAC
                                                                                                                 BO                                                             Carreo
                                                                                                                                                                                Carreo
                                                                                Chiquinquir
                                                                                Chiquinquir
                                                                   A L D A S                                               C A S A N A R E              Nueva
                                                            l                                          Tunja
                                                               CManizales       C U N D I N A -                      Yopal
5N                        RISARALD
                           RISARALD                                                                                                                              Santa Rita                                  5N
                                         Cartago               Pereira              M A R C A
                                                               Armenia                      BOGOT
                                                                                            BOGOT                                                 V I C H A D A
                                QUINDIO                                                                                    Meta
                                                                                                                             San Pedro     Gaviotas                                    Atacavi


                  Buenaventura                  Buga              TO L I Millera
                                                                             A       OrienDISTRITO
                                                                                             tal
                                                                                                  Villavincencio        Chaviva                    Vichada

                    VALLE DEL                                                                                                                                              Puerto
                                             Palmira                                       CAPITAL                                                                         Inirda
                                                                                                                                                                           Inirda
                     CAUCA                                    Central
                                                              Ibaque          Giradot




                                Cali                                  Cord                                  M E T A
                                                                                     San Juan
                                                                                     de Arama
                                                                                                                           Guaviare                           G U A I N  A
                      C A U C A                              H U L A                                                                             Mapiripana
                                                                                                                    San Jos
                                                                                                                         Jos                                         Tabaqun
                                                                                                                                                                       abaqun

                    Guap
                    Guap   Popayan        CordilleraNeiva
                                                                                                                    del Guaviare                                   Brujas
                                                                Garzon        San Vicente
                                                                              del Cagun
                                                                                    Cagun
   Tumaco     Pata                                                                                                Calamar


           N A R I  O                                           Florencia                                   G U AV I A R E                                                                              Negro

                     Pasto
                                        Mocoa                                 Cagun                                                                                                          San Rafael
                                                                                                                Miraflores                    Mitu
                                                                                                                                       Vaups

                       Ipiales
                  To                                                                C A Q U E T                                     VA U P  S
               Ibarra          Puerto
                                P U T U M AY O                                                                                                           Yavarate


                                 Asis                                                                      Macujer
                                                                                             Puerto
                                                                                             Huitoto
0N                                                                              Puerto                                                                                                                       0N
                                                                                 Leguzamo
                                                                                 Leguzamo             Puerto
         ECUADOR                                                                                                                            LLrida
                                                                                                                                             rida
                                                                                                       Pizarro             Caquet
                                                                                                               Puerto
                                                                                                            Santander
                                                                                                Ptumayo                                  Locas de
                                                                                                                                         Cahuinari
     COLOMBIA                                                                                                           A M A Z O N A S            La Pedrera

                                                                                                          El Encanto


          SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                        BRAZIL
          DEPARTMENT CAPITALS

          NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                            PERU
          RIVERS                                                                                                                                                               This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                               the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                               World Bank. The boundaries,
          MAIN ROADS                                                 0         80           160        240        320 Kilometers                                               colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                               any other information shown
          RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                            on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                                        Leticia                the part of The World Bank
          DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                      0       40         80      120      160      200 Miles                                                    Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                                                                               legal status      of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                               or any endorsement or
          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                             a c c e p t a n c e   o f    s u c h
                                                                       75W                                                                        70W                        boundaries.


                                                                                                                                                                                               SEPTEMBER 2004

