Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  06/13/2005 
Report No.:  AC1599
1. Project Statistics  
 
Country:  Colombia 
Project ID:  P089443 
Project Name:  Social Protection Project 
Task Team Leader:  Andrea Vermehren 
Estimated Appraisal Date: June 14, 2005 
Estimated Board Date: August 30, 2005 
Managing Unit:  LCSHS-DPT 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Other social services (80%);Primary education (20%) 
Theme:  Other human development (P);Other social protection and risk management 
(P);Child health (S);Other public sector governance (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
87.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
5.00 
 
INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK 
6.80
11.80 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The project development objective is to strengthen the country's social safety net by 
consolidating and expanding the successful Familias en Accion Conditional Cash 
Transfer program and improving the monitoring and evaluation of the country's safety net 
portfolio.   
 
3. Project Description 
Component 1: Consolidating and expanding the Familias en Accion program ($84.5 
million).  The project would disburse cash transfers (grants) to poor families linked to 
compliance with key human development conditionalities.  Under the current Familias 
program these include: a) assuring that children 0-5 have all vaccinations and growth 
monitoring controls, according to the Ministry of Social Protection's (MSP) protocols; 
and b) assuring that children 6-17 years of age are enrolled in schools and attend 
regularly to classes.  
 
Component 2: Improving the monitoring and evaluation system of the Ministry of 
Social Protection (MSP) in order to better track and critically review the country's social 
safety net portfolio. ($2.5 million).  This component will support MPS' mandate of 
Page  2
increasing transparency and efficiency of the social safety net and its various 
implementing agencies by establishing an integrated, results-based M&E system in the 
ministry that provides accountability, an objective assessment of social policies and 
programs, and continuous feedback for the design of social safety net programs in 
Colombia.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
This is nationwide program.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Specialists on the Team 
Mr Jairo A. Arboleda (LCCCO) 
Ms Maria Claudia Vasquez Alvarez (LCSHS-DPT) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Among the beneficiaries targeted by this project are Colombia's indigenous and Afro-
Colombian communities.  A rapid social assessment was conducted in April 2005 to 
identify ways in which the project design should be adjusted to ensure eligible indigenous 
and Afro-Colombian families are reached and served by the program in a culturally 
appropriate way.  The assessment drew from the experience of ethnic beneficiaries 
already enrolled in the Familias en Acci?n program which proved to be a rich resource. 
Based on the assessment, an Indigenous People's Development Plan was elaborated and 
agreed with the Colombian authorities. Environmental safeguards do not apply to the 
project.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
The social assessment found that the Familias en Accion program generated a high level 
of interest among ethnic groups and has had similar positive impacts on participating 
ethnic minority households and the general population. The one exception seems to be 
Page  3
secondary school enrollment where the program has less of an impact on indigenous 
youth, as compared to non-indigenous youth.  
 
However, interview data suggest barriers to entry for a subset of indigenous 
communities.  
 
The assessment identified that some parameters of the program could be modified to 
better serve these hard-to-reach ethnic minority populations. These include the targeting 
through SISBEN; outreach to non-participating, eligible beneficiaries; and monitoring of 
ethnic minorities in the program's management information system.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not applicable   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Based upon the findings of the social assessment, the following recommendations were 
made to better adjust the Familias en Accion Program to the needs of ethnic minority 
households and communities.  
 
1. 
It is recommended to expand coverage in Afro-Colombian populated areas, 
particularly in the case of the Department of Choco based on the new SISBEN database.  
 
2. 
To ensure higher coverage rates and smoother program operation in areas that 
have significant indigenous and/or Afro-Colombian populations, the Program should 
organize a coordination committee made up of traditional leaders, local health and 
education officials that will meet at least quarterly to discuss strategies for achieving high 
coverage and participation rates and to identify any cultural insensitivities or other 
barriers affecting program success in the municipality.  
 
3. 
With the purpose of strengthening women's self-esteem, it is recommended that 
the program integrate a new educational component for beneficiary mothers designed to 
build awareness of their rights and responsibilities as individuals, but also explore the 
cultural origins of the ethnic groups present in the area, in an effort to strengthen cultural 
identity while building greater tolerance from members of other ethnic groups.  This 
program component should be delivered to all women living in areas with high numbers 
of indigenous and Afro-Colombian people, regardless of their ethnic origin, based upon 
the assumptions that all women need to be empowered and the behaviors of both majority 
and minority women need to be changed if stigma against ethnic minority is to be 
eliminated.  
 
4. 
The program should incorporate a question on the impact survey regarding the 
beneficiary's ethnicity.  This would enable the program to evaluate the beneficiary 
performance by ethnicity and thus better detect performance problems that may be caused 
by cultural differences and require more culturally sensitive program adaptations to 
correct.  The program budget will include some funding to finance the analysis of this 
Page  4
data through a cultural lens and for follow-up work required to define appropriate 
corrective measures.  
 
Action Plan  
 
A
medium term action plan has been developed which will be implemented under the 
project, forming part of the project's overall implementation plan. The borrower is well 
positioned to implement the plan. It consists basically of further studies and the inclusion 
of some specific actions regarding the program's training strategy and improving 
monitoring of the ethnic beneficiary population. The following actions are included in the 
plan which has been agreed upon with the Colombian authorities:  
 
i. 
A study to develop a program strategy for ethnic populations with special focus 
on the program's promotion activities.  
 
ii. 
Training for municipal staff (enlaces municipales) to become more aware of the 
ethnic population's specific characteristics and their own behaviors toward this 
population group.  
 
iii. 
Promotion of more cooperation of the program with health facilities, particularly 
in the program's training activities (encuentros de cuidado).  
 
iv.  
Further data collection and analysis will be done in order to better understand 
some of the problems identified by the social assessment and an action plan will be 
formulated to address them.  
 
v.
Inclusion of information on ethnicity in the impact surveys.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Key stakeholders of the Familias en Accion program are municipal governments and 
indigenous and Afro-Columbian communities. The program will offer training to 
municipal staff to get a better understanding of ethnic communities and families in order 
to provide better services for them. At the local level, the program will work with 
community leaders to continue to monitor how the program is working for the different 
ethnic groups which will also be captured in the program's management information 
system (MIS).   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
05/27/2005 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
06/17/2005 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
06/10/2005 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management, Cultural Property and/or the Safety 
of Dams policies, the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of 
the Environmental Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
Page  5
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OD 4.20 - Indigenous Peoples 
 
Has a separate indigenous people development plan been prepared in 
consultation with the Indigenous People? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Social Development Unit review the plan? 
Yes 
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed 
and approved by the Regional Social Development Unit? 
No 
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Andrea Vermehren 
06/03/2005 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Andrea Vermehren 
 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Jean-Roger Mercier 
 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Ms Helena G. Ribe 
06/10/2005 
Comments:   
