Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC1306 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/29/2005 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Colombia 
Project ID: P089443 
Project Name: Social Protection Project 
Task Team Leader: Andrea Vermehren 
Estimated Appraisal Date: May 5, 2005 
Estimated Board Date: August 30, 2005 
Managing Unit: LCSHS-DPT 
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program 
Loan 
Sector: Other social services (80%);Primary education (20%) 
Theme: Other human development (P);Other social protection and risk management 
(P);Child health (S);Other public sector governance (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
88.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
10.00
10.00 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The objective of the proposed project would be to support the design and development of a social 
protection system by (i) co-financing the Familias en Acci?n Conditional Cash Transfers 
Program, expanding it to new areas, and developing it further to become  a crisis response 
instrument, (ii) strengthening the Ministry of Social Protection to improve the basic architecture 
of the social protection system, and (iii) improving the monitoring and evaluation capacity of the 
MSP, as part of a broader GOC effort.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
C.  Project Description  
 
Component 1: Expansion of Familias en Acci?n ($84 million).  The project would disburse cash 
transfers (grants) to poor families linked to compliance with key human development 
conditionalities.  Under the current Familias program these include a) assuring that children 0-6 
have all vaccinations and growth monitoring controls, according to the MSP protocols, and b) 
assuring that children 7-17 years of age are enrolled in schools and regularly attend to classes. 
The program would increase its coverage from 340,000 to 400,000 families. This expansion 
would include families in recently pacified municipalities and without a formal banking system, 
Page  2
as well as capital towns of municipalities. In addition, the program would pilot expansion into 
marginalized, conflictive urban areas (to date, Familias has only operated in rural areas).  The 
implementing agency for this component would be the Fondo de Inversi?n para la Paz (FIP) of 
the Presidency during the first phase. During this phase, the GOC would develop a plan to 
institutionalise the program which could result in a change of implementing agency for the 
future.  
 
Component 2: Institutional Strengthening of the Ministry of Social Protection ($1.5 million).  
This component would finance preparation and implementation of a comprehensive social 
protection system, with special emphasis on identified efficiency gains and more effective ways 
to reach vulnerable and poor groups through social assistance. The MSP would apply a broad 
concept of social protection (beyond social assistance), encompassing the efficient and equitable 
management of social risks (e.g., ill health, unemployment, disability, old age, loss from natural 
disasters or socio-economic crisis. Emphasis would be given to reforming social assistance 
programs managed by ICBF and FIP. Topics such as separation of roles and functions, 
institutional reorganization, and decentralizing social assistance service provision will figure 
prominently. The project would support the development of the implementation plan for the 
reformed system. The implementing agency for this component would be MSP.  
 
Component 3: Improving Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) of the Social Protection System ($ 
2.5 million).  This component would include the design and implementation of a data 
management system and impact evaluation strategy for the MSP.  This is part of the 
government?s strategy to build ministerial capacity in M&E, while developing a general 
framework to allow for consistency across ministries.  The MSP is the first ministry that will 
undertake this process.  The project would focus on the MSP, with activities to strengthen the 
monitoring systems and capacity to implement impact evaluations. Both the monitoring and 
evaluation components would be designed to support MSP program and policy decisions, and to 
link with the national system M&E system established in DNP. Implementing agency for this 
component will be defined during pre-appraisal since both DNP and the MSP will be involved in 
implementing and coordinating activities.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
This is a nationwide program.   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
Implementing agencies have been assessed and results are acceptable to the Bank.   
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
The project will not create significant environmental risks and it is categorized as C in 
application of OP/BP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment.   
Page  3
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
X
A
social assessment of the situation of indigenous and Afro-Colombian people would be 
carried out to develop an IPDP for the APL, and focus on how the Familias program has worked 
for these groups in terms of targeting, family focus, training activities, etc.  
 
The specific outcome of the Social Assessment on Indigenous Peoples issues will be 
published as a stand alone document and disclosed in-country and at the Infoshop before 
appraisal.  In addition, synergies with the Bank?s Peace and Development project would be 
explored.   
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
C
-
Not Required 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  N/A 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  05/30/2005 
 
Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  The 
specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
A
social assessment of the situation of indigenous and Afro-Colombian people would be 
carried out to develop an IPDP for the APL, and focus on how the Familias program has 
worked for these groups in terms of targeting, family focus, training activities, etc.  
 
The specific outcome of the Social Assessment on Indigenous Peoples issues will be 
published as a stand alone document and disclosed in-country and at the Infoshop before 
appraisal.  In addition, synergies with the Bank?s Peace and Development project would be 
explored.  
 
The project will not create significant environmental risks and it is categorized as C in 
application of OP/BP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment.   
 
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  4
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Andrea Vermehren 
03/09/2005 
Approved by: 
 
R
egional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Jean-Roger Mercier 
03/25/2005 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Ms Helena G. Ribe 
03/28/2005 
Comments:   
