Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1413 
Project Name 
Social Protection Project 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Other social services (80%);Primary education (20%) 
Project ID 
P089443 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
February 22, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 15, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
August 30, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Colombia’s recent history requires a re-thinking of the Government’s role in the provision 
of social services.  
For decades, Colombia sustained positive growth rates, with declining 
poverty rates despite ongoing violence.  At the same time, social insurance and safety net 
programs emerged in an ad hoc manner to address specific needs of certain segments of the 
population, leading to fragmentation of programs, poor targeting of services, competing 
incentives, and general inefficiency. Economic growth was largely considered as sufficient to 
meet most social demands. When the economic crisis hit in 1999, the government was not well 
prepared to meet the emerging social demands and was unable to quickly build a response 
mechanism due to fiscal constraints. 
Persistent shortfalls in human development.
 
Two million school-age children and youth, 
primarily from poor families, are out of school. More than two million poor citizens are not 
insured, and inefficient hospitals providing inadequate care continue to fight for existence. 
Unemployment stubbornly remains above 10%, far above its historical levels; youth, women, 
and displaced populations are particularly affected. Violence has eroded human capital by 
limiting access to education and health care in affected areas. Family life has been seriously 
disrupted with women and children being the most vulnerable. 
Government response and reforms.  
By 2003, when Colombia began to emerge from the 
economic crisis, the Government of Colombia (GOC) had already initiated an aggressive agenda 
to reform its social protection and insurance system in order to improve efficiency in social 
spending, while expanding coverage to the most needy and excluded and creating a crisis 
response system:  
a)  To provide immediate response to the crisis, a temporary five-year 
Red de Apoyo Social
 
(Social Safety Net, RAS) pilot was created in 2000 including the 
Familias en Accion, 
Empleos en Accion
,
Jovenes en
 
Accion 
programs.   
Page  2
b)  To improve the supply of social services, the 
decentralization
 law 715 passed in 2001, 
linked federal transfers to states and municipalities to outputs.  
c) The 
National Development Plan
 for 2002-2006 devotes two of its four main lines of 
actions to these social development objectives.   
d)  To reduced the cost of hard-to-employ workers, GOC enacted the 
labor reform
 law 789  
in late 2002, which also introduced other social protection and assistance provisions; and 
e)  To consolidate the actions of the health and labour ministries, in 2003, the 
Ministry of 
Social Protection
 (MSP) was created. 
 
Bank support for the reform agenda.  
These reforms measures have received sustained support 
from the Bank through lending and sector work, including initial funding for the RAS program 
(Human Capital Development Project; Community Works Project), sustaining the reform agenda 
during the transition of GOC administrations (Social Sector Reform Loan (SECAL), and 
broadening the effort,  First and Second Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Structural 
Adjustment Loan, PLaRSSAL  I and II, and a companion Technical Assistance Loan (TAL). The 
initiatives supported by the Bank are impressive, but they are only the beginning of a broader 
effort to reform Colombia’s social protection and insurance schemes. While the ongoing TAL 
has begun to support diagnostic studies and institution building for  a social protection system, 
GOC has requested further technical and financial support from the Bank and IDB both to 
expand the 
Familias en Acción
 program and to accompany the reforms.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed Social Protection Project is included in the 2002 CAS (Human Capital Protection 
Project), and responds directly to its pillar of “sharing the fruits of growth”.   
The objective of the proposed project would be to support the design and development of a social 
protection system by (i) co-financing the 
Familias
 Conditional Cash Transfers Program, 
expanding it to new areas, and developing it further to become  a crisis response instrument, (ii) 
strengthening the Ministry of Social Protection to improve the basic architecture of the social 
protection system, and (iii) improving the monitoring and evaluation capacity of the MSP, as part 
of a broader GOC effort.  
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
Component 1: Expansion of 
Familias en Acción 
($84 million).
 
The project would disburse 
cash transfers (grants) to poor families linked to compliance with key human development 
conditionalities.  Under the current 
Familias
 program these include a) assuring that children 0-6 
have all vaccinations and growth monitoring controls, according to the MSP protocols, and b) 
assuring that children 7-17 years of age are enrolled in schools and regularly attend to classes. 
During the first phase of the APL, the program would increase its coverage from 340,000 to 
400,000 families. This expansion would include families in recently pacified municipalities and 
without a formal banking system, as well as capital towns of municipalities. In addition, the 
program would pilot expansion into marginalized, conflictive urban areas (to date, 
Familias
 has 
only operated in rural areas).  Phase I would finance about US$ 84 million for cash transfers. 
Page  3
Government counterpart funds of US$ 10 million would cover operational and administrative 
costs, including financing for monitoring and evaluation (e.g. the pilots), as well as external 
audits.  Phase II would include further financing for a conditional cash transfer program, which s 
expected to be co-financed by the IDB.  The implementing agency for this component would be 
the Fondo de Inversión para la Paz (FIP) of the Presidency during the first phase. During this 
phase, the GOC would develop a plan to institutionalise the program could result in a change of 
implementing agency for Phase II.  
Component 2: Institutional Strengthening of the Ministry of Social Protection ($1.5 
million).
 
This component would finance  preparation and implementation of a comprehensive 
social protection system, with special emphasis on identified efficiency gains and more effective 
ways to reach vulnerable and poor groups through social assistance. The MSP would apply a 
broad concept of social protection (beyond social assistance), encompassing the efficient and 
equitable management of social risks (e.g., ill health, unemployment, disability, old age, loss 
from natural disasters or socio-economic crisis. Emphasis would be given to reforming social 
assistance programs managed by ICBF and FIP. Topics such as separation of roles and functions, 
institutional reorganization, and decentralizing social assistance service provision will figure 
prominently. Phase I would support the development of the implementation plan for the 
reformed system. Phase II would support the initial implementation of such a plan. The 
implementing agency for this component would be MSP. 
Component 3: Improving Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) of the Social Protection System 
($ 2.5 million).  
This component would include the design and implementation of a data 
management system and impact evaluation strategy for the MSP.  This is part of the 
government’s strategy to build  ministerial capacity in M&E, while developing a general 
framework to allow for consistency across ministries.  The MSP is the first ministry that will 
undertake this process.  Phase I would focus on the MSP, with activities to strengthen the 
monitoring systems and capacity to implement impact evaluations. Both the monitoring and 
evaluation components would be designed to support MSP program and policy decisions, and to 
link with the national system M&E system established in DNP.  Phase II would take the lessons 
learned from Phase I, deepen the reforms in the MSP, and to support the process to other 
ministries as appropriate. Implementing agency for this component will be defined during pre-
appraisal since both DNP and the MSP will be involved in implementing and coordinating 
activities. 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply. A social assessment of the situation of indigenous and 
Afro-Colombian people would be carried out to develop an IPDP for the APL, and focus on 
how the 
Familias
 program has worked for these groups in terms of targeting, family focus, 
training activities, etc. In addition, synergies with the Bank’s Peace and Development project 
would be explored. Environmental safeguards do not apply to the project 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 10 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
88 
Total 98 
Page  4
6. Contact point 
Contact: Andrea Vermehren 
Title: Sr. Social Protection Specialist 
Tel: (202) 458-0657 
Fax: (202) 614-0854 
Email: avermehren@worldbank.org
 
