                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000775




        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-73370 IBRD-74330)

                                      ON

                                    LOANS

                   IN THE AMOUNTS OF US$86.4 MILLION

           AND US$104.8 MILLION OF ADDITIONAL FINANCING


                                    TO THE

                       THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

                                    FOR A

                       SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT




                                 June 29, 2009




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                      (Exchange Rate Effective June 26, 2009)

                           Currency Unit = Colombian Peso
                                 COP 2,180.97 = US$1

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 ­ December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AF       Additional Financing
AICO     Indigenous Authorities of Colombia (Autoridades Indígenas de Colombia)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CCF      Family Compensation Funds (Cajas de Compensación Familiar)
CCT      Conditional Cash Transfers
CONPES   Nacional Council of Economic and Social Policy (Consejo Nacional de Política Económica y
         Social)
DANE     National Administrative Department of Statistics (Departamento Administrativo Nacional de
         Estadística)
DAPR-    Administrative Department of the Presidencial Office in charge of the Investment Fund for Peace
ACCION   (Departamento Administrativo de la Presidencia de la República ­ Agencia Presidencal para la
SOCIAL-  Action Social ­ Fondo de Inversión para la Paz)
FIP
DNP      Department f National Planning
ECD      Early Childhood Development
FMRs     Financial Monitoring Reports
FONADE   National Fund of Development Projects
HCB      Community Child Care Centers
IADB     Inter-American Development Bank
ICBF     Colombian Institute for Family Welfare (Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar)
IPDP     Indigenous People's Development Plan
MDG      Millenium Development Goals
MHCP     Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
MIS      Management Information System
MSP      Ministry of Social Protection (Ministerio de Protección Social)
SIGOB    Information System of Management and Programming of Presidential Goals
SINERGIA Nacional System for Results Evaluation (Sistema Nacional de Evaluación de Resultados de la
         Gestión Pública)
SISBEN   Selection System of Beneficiaries of Social Programs (Sistema de Selección de Beneficiarios de
         Programas Sociales)
SISPRO   Project Information System of the Ministry of Social Protection
SOEs     Statement of Expenditures
TAL      Technical Asístanse Loan


                             Vice President: Pamela Cox
                          Country Director: Axel van Trotsenburg
                            Sector Manager: Helena Ribe
                      Project Team Leader: Theresa Jones
                         ICR Team Leader: Theresa Jones

                                            COLOMBIA
                          SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 12
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 23
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ......... 25
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing (Lns. 7337 and 7433) ...................................... 26
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 27
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 37
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 40
 Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 42
 Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 52
 Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 53
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                       CO Social Safety Net
Country:                Colombia                Project Name:
                                                                       Project
                                                                       IBRD-73370,IBRD-
Project ID:             P089443                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                       74330
ICR Date:               06/30/2009              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                       COLOMBIA
Original Total
                        USD 86.4M               Disbursed Amount:      USD 190.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Social Protection (MSP)
DAPR-Accion Social-FIP
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/28/2005    Effectiveness:                             01/20/2006
Appraisal:             06/14/2005    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              11/01/2005    Mid-term Review:       10/16/2006
                                     Closing:               12/31/2007          12/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:        Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:            Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators          (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          No                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social services                                         100               100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Child health                                                    14               14
Education for all                                               14               14
Other public sector governance                                  14               14
Other social protection and risk management                     29               29
Social safety nets                                              29               29


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                       Pamela Cox
Country Director:         Axel van Trotsenburg             Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:           Helena G. Ribe                   Helena G. Ribe
Project Team Leader:      Theresa Jones                    Andrea Vermehren
ICR Team Leader:          Theresa Jones
ICR Primary Author:       Theresa Jones



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective is to strengthen the country's social safety net by
consolidating and expanding the successfu l Familias en Accion Conditional Cash
Transfer program and improving the monitoring and evaluation of the country's safety net
portfolio.




                                             ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from       Revised          Achieved at
                                                approval          Target        Completion or
                                               documents)         Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   At least 40% of benefits of Familias en Accion program going to bottom quintile.
Value
quantitative or 40%                       40%                                 95.6%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/29/2005                  11/30/2007                          06/30/2008
Comments        Measurement of actual value is not comparable to the methodology used for the
(incl. %        baseline value. Nevertheless, results indicate that in substance the originally
achievement)    defined target is met.
Indicator 2 :   At least 70% of SISBEN 1 families covered in participating municipalities.
Value
quantitative or 60%                       70%                                 62.1%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/29/2005                  11/30/2007                          06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   At least 80% of primary-age school children in extremely poor beneficiary
                families attending school at least 80% of the time.
Value
quantitative or 70%                       80%                                 71.9%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/29/2005                  11/30/2007                          06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 4 :   At least 95% of beneficiary 0-6 year old children with completed growth
                monitoring and health check ups, according to the MSP protocol.
Value
quantitative or 90%                       95%                                 71.9%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/29/2005                  11/30/2007                          06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 5 :   Publicly available information on the coverage, financing, and impact of key
                social safety net programs managed by the MSP and its affiliated institutions.
Value           None of specified         None of specified
quantitative or information available.    information                         See comments.



                                                iii

Qualitative)                               available.
Date achieved 11/29/2005                   11/30/2007                         12/30/2008
Comments        The M&E system is not in operation. Public information relates to its design and
(incl. %        is available in: (a) the monitoring system for investment projects managed by
achievement)    DNP and (b) the #Report to Congress# found on the MSP webpage.

Indicator 6 :   At least 50% of social safety net programs of the MSP and at least two of its
                affiliated organizations are included in the M&E system.

Value                                      50 % of programs                   >50 of social

quantitative or 0                          and at least 2                     protection system

Qualitative)                               affiliated                         and 7 affiliated
                                           organizations                      organizations
Date achieved 11/29/2005                   11/30/2007                         12/30/2008
Comments        The M&E system design covers nearly all the SP sector (one gap is family
(incl. %        allowances). Out of the 19 affiliated agencies, 7 are included. It is considered
achievement)    that more than 50% of the SP sector is covered in the design.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                 approval         Revised       Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values     Target Years

Indicator 1 :   At least 70% of the total of revised SISBEN 1 families in newly entered
                municipalities are registered in the program.
Value
(quantitative   0                          70%                                66.4%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/20/2005                   12/31/2007                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        95% achievement.
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   At least 50% of social safety net programs of the MSP and at least two of its
                affiliated organizations are included in the M&E system.
Value
(quantitative   0                          100                                99.9%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/20/2005                   12/31/2007                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Missing municipality is capital Bogota.
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   Beneficiary information booklets designed, published and distributed to new
                municipalities with training.
Value
(quantitative   0                          57                                 466
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/20/2005                   12/31/2007                         12/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %



                                                 iv

achievement)

Indicator 4 :  System for monitoring human capital conditions operating for new selected
               areas.
Value
(quantitative  0                       57                                   466
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/20/2005               12/31/2007                           06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Performance exceeds target set in original Project (and not updated at time of

achievement)   AF) because expansion covered a much larger number of municipalities.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived              DO                          IP                Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     12/28/2005         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     05/05/2006         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     11/13/2006         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     54.85
  4     05/18/2007         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     85.13
  5     12/09/2007         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     179.31
  6     05/29/2008         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     190.55
  7     12/01/2008         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     190.97



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                              v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

A. Country and sector issues

The positive growth and poverty reduction which Colombia sustained for decades
abruptly ended in 1999 and the country's social protection system was not able to
respond adequately to the recession. The crisis forced a re-thinking of social sector
strategies. The Government created an emergency social safety net to mitigate the
impacts of the crisis on the poorest through 2005, which included Familias en Acción
(hereafter Familias), a Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) Program that provided cash to
poor households in rural areas conditional on school attendance and visits to health
facilities for children. At the time, the World Bank supported Familias through the
Human Capital Protection Project approved in March 29, 2001 (Ln. 7050). Another
important reform was the creation of the Ministry of Social Protection (MSP) in 2003,
joining together the Ministries of Health and Labor with the mandate to increase the
efficiency and transparency of the social protection system and its affiliated agencies.
This institutional reform, among other social reforms, had been supported through a
series of programmatic labor reform and social development policy loans.1

By the time of appraisal of the Social Safety Net Project, Colombia had emerged from the
economic crisis and resumed growth, but social challenges remained. School attendance
had increased, but rates were still below Latin American regional averages and even in
urban areas fell short of universal enrollment.              According to the 2005 National
Demographic and Health Survey, there were significant differences in global malnutrition
rates between children in households in the lowest income group (11.6 percent) and those
in the highest income group (3.2 percent). To help address these challenges, in 2005 the
Government decided to expand Familias, given its demonstrated impact in promoting the
accumulation of human capital, even though the economy had recovered. The MSP had
begun to define Colombia's new social protection and assistance framework assisted by a
series of studies and analysis supported by the World Bank and the Inter-American
Development Bank (IADB).

B. Rationale for Bank assistance

When Familias was created in 2001, it was designed to be highly targeted and respond to
a crisis. Coverage was not universal among the poor because of operational and financial
restrictions at the time. This approach was modified once the positive results of the




1See Implementation Completion and Results Report for a Series of Programmatic Labor Reform and
Social Structural Adjustment Loans I and II and a Labor Reform and Social Development Policy Loan III,
December 21, 2007.




                                                   1

impact evaluation were known2. The Project was designed to support the transition of
Familias, including its expansion, further development as a more permanent program and
the definition of its position in the social protection system. The first Project component
covered the activities related to Familias and was carried out by Acción Social. In
addition, the Project was intended to strengthen the institutional role of the MSP as the
lead agency and institutional backbone of the social protection system by improving its
monitoring and evaluation capacity. This second component was carried out by the
Ministry of Social Protection.

C. Higher level objectives to which the project contributed

The World Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Colombia was based on
three pillars: economic growth, building quality government, and sharing the fruits of
growth. The Project contributed to the CAS objectives by: (i) sharing the fruits of growth
by providing a strengthened social safety net to those who were not benefiting from the
renewed growth; (ii) helping to further economic growth by investing in the education
and health of poor children; and (iii) building quality government through the
development of a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system in the MSP. The CAS
update added a fourth pillar: (iv) building the foundations of peace. The Project also
contributed to this pillar since it supported the expansion of Familias to areas previously
affected by violence. The Project also contributed to the achievement of the Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs) in Colombia, in particular MDG 1 (the reduction of poverty
and hunger and malnutrition); MDG 2 (the achievement of universal primary education);
MDG 4 (reducing child mortality); and MDG 5 (improving maternal health).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The Project Development Objective was to strengthen Colombia's social safety net by
consolidating and expanding Familias and by improving the monitoring and evaluation
of the safety net portfolio. Familias was expected to complement the income of poor
families in order to raise food consumption and human capital investment in children.
Support to the design and implementation of an integrated results-based M&E system
was expected to help ensure coordination between the agencies operating in the social
protection system and provide information for better program design.




2See Evaluation of Public Policies # 4, Families in Action: Impact of the Program after 1 and a Half Years
of Implementation, National Department of Planning, Goverment of Colombia.




                                                    2

                                            Table 1. Outcome Indicators

 At least 40% of benefits of Familias going to bottom quintile of the population.

 Al least 70% of SISBEN 13 families covered in participating municipalities.

 At least 80% of primary-age school-age children in extremely poor beneficiary families
    attending school at least 80% of time.

 At least 95% of beneficiary 0-6 year old children with completed growth monitoring and health
    check ups, according to MSP protocol.

 Publicly available information on the coverage, financing, and impact of key social safety net
    programs managed by the MSP and its affiliated institutions.

 At least 50% of social safety net programs of the MSP and at least two of its affiliated
    organizations are included in the M&E system.




1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators

There were no revisions to Project Development Objective or key indicators made during
the course of the Project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

For Component 1, the main beneficiaries were the children of poor families participating
in Familias.      Results of the impact evaluation demonstrated that the program was
effective in raising food consumption, increasing school enrollment and attainment and in
improving health outcomes for children (higher birthweight and better growth, reduced
sickness and higher vaccination coverage). For Component 2, the main direct beneficiary
would be MSP and its affiliated agencies.

1.5 Original Components

Component 1: Consolidation and expansion of Familias from 340,000 to 400,000
families by including extremely poor4 families in marginalized urban areas as well



3SISBEN (Selection System of Beneficiaries of Social Programs) is a proxy means test. Proxy means tests
identify the poor using a relatively small number of household characteristics to calculate a score that
indicates how well off the family is (providing an estimate of its "probability of being poor"). These
variables are weighted using statistical techniques to generate an overall score. Those families with scores
below certain thresholds are then eligible for benefits. The poorest population is classified in the lowest
group, or SISBEN 1.

4Extremely poor as identified by Colombia's proxy means instrument (level 1 of SISBEN- Selection
System of Beneficiaries of Social Programs).




                                                      3

as high priority rural zones affected by violence5.              The Project financed the cash
transfers (grants) to families linked to compliance with specific conditions.                 These
included: a) assuring that children 0-6 had all vaccinations and growth monitoring
controls, according to the MSP protocols; and b) assuring that children 7-17 years of age
were enrolled in school and regularly attended classes. The Project also financed the
bank fees associated with the transfers and a small number of studies related to program
design.    In addition, the Government was to extend the program to 100,000 displaced
families financed entirely by domestic resources.

Component 2: Improving the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system of the
Ministry of Social Protection (MSP) in order to better track and critically review
the country's social safety net portfolio This component was to support MSP's
mandate of increasing efficiency and transparency of the social safety net and its
affiliated agencies by establishing an integrated results-based M&E system in the
Ministry that provides accountability, an objective assessment of social policies and
programs, and continuous feedback for the design of social safety net programs in
Colombia. The component was expected to:

    (a) Strengthen the relationship between outcome indicators and budget allocation in
    the social area;

    (b) Strengthen the MSP's institutional capacity to evaluate its current programs; and

    (c) Improve transparency and accountability in the MSP.

The MSP's M&E system was to be fully integrated with Colombia's National Evaluation
System of Public Sector Performance (SINERGIA) and the information system of
management and programming of presidential goals (SIGOB) to ensure its sustainability
and extensive use. The Project financed consultant services, training, goods and some
operational costs.

1.6 Revised Components


The Project's components were not revised during implementation.                  However, with
Additional Financing more funds were added to further scale-up of the activities under
the first component ­ the consolidation of the Familias program.

1.7 Other significant changes

When the original Project was negotiated in mid-2005, the size of the loan reflected the
decision of the Government not to assume that Familias would necessarily continue after



5Does not include the expansion supported by the Additional Financing (Ln. 7433) which is discussed in
Section 1.7.




                                                 4

the May 2006 election. In any event, the Government of President Uribe won reelection
and in late 2006 the Government requested an additional loan to help finance the costs
(transfers and bank fees) associated with a further scaling-up of Familias (Component 1
of the Project).      The Bank responded positively based on the justification that the
resources would serve to enhance the impact of a well-performing Project. On March 15,
2007, the Board approved Additional Financing (AF) of US$104.8 million in order to
enable Familias to expand the number of beneficiary families (nearly 600,0006 at the
time of AF approval) to about 1 million (not including families from the displaced
population, which were still financed by national resources).

Additional financing was judged the best available mechanism to meet the request of the
Government. The Bank and the IADB were working with the Colombians on a new
strategy to alleviate extreme poverty, which was likely to build on Familias, but further
work was needed on its design. Also, more experience with the ongoing pilots in urban
areas was needed before expansion into large cities. In the meantime, the government did
not want to delay scaling-up in locations where Familias had shown good results. As of
February 5, 2007, 90 percent of the original Project loan had been disbursed and the
remaining resources for Component 1 were expected to be exhausted shortly.

Other changes for Component 1 (Familias) included a reallocation of funds to increase
the amount for the transfers' expenditure category and an extension of the closing date of
the AF (Ln. 7433) from December 30, 2007, to June 30, 2008. The registration process
for the expansion to new municipalities took slightly longer than planned and the rate of
participation (60 percent of eligible families) was lower than initially estimated (70
percent). To some extent, this was a result of the expansion of the program into urban
areas where the task of informing potential participants and getting them to register has
proved more difficult in all of the CCTs in the Latin America Region (See Annex 2 and
Figure 2.2 for more discussion of this point).

In the case of Component 2, two changes occurred. The loan was amended to allow the
National Fund for Development Projects (FONADE) to be substituted by the Ministry of
Social Protection since the latter agency had the capacity to implement the project
directly (countersigned by Borrower September 2006). This was consistent as well with
the policy of the Bank to move towards use of country systems. The closing date was
extended a year from the original date of December 30, 2007, because of the delay in the
start of Project activities caused by the change in implementation arrangements among
other factors. In addition, at Project closing, about US$200,000 remained undisbursed




6 The target for the original Project had been to increase the number of families covered by the program
from about 340,000 in 2004 to 400,000 by 2005/6. By end-2006 this target was exceeded by a substantial
margin. Instead of expanding coverage to the 57 additional municipalities originally envisaged, the
program expanded to 75 additional municipalities by end-2005, and 220 (accumulated) by end-2006.
Accordingly, the number of SISBEN 1 families registered increased to 412,000 by end-2005 and to about
510,000 by end-2006.




                                                     5

mainly because envisaged expenditures for training, goods and operational costs had been
covered by national resources.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project preparation and design reflected sound analytical and operational analysis derived
from Bank prior involvement in the Colombian social protection system. An earlier Bank
loan (Ln. 7050) supported the creation of Familias. This project was a logical extension
designed to support technical advances through pilots and several initiatives.
Additionally, the Bank had supported social sector reforms, including the creation and
development of the Ministry of Social Protection, through a series of sector adjustment
loans.7 The Project incorporated background and lessons from previous projects and
sector work, as well as international experience on conditional cash transfer programs.

The statement of development objectives for Component 1 (Familias) could have been
better focused on the specific results expected for poor families (increase in consumption
and human capital formation). However, the Project Appraisal Document discussed
these expected outcomes and they were important in the context of Colombia's
circumstances and development priorities, as well as of the Country Assistance Strategy.
The definition of the Project objectives for Component 2 appropriately reflected the
nature of the technical assistance activities.

Both implementing agencies, Acción Social (Component 1), and MSP (Component 2)
had sufficient capacity.     IADB was a key partner of the Bank for Component 1,
continuing the history of joint support to Familias.

The commitment of the Government to Familias was clear. According to the National
Development Plan (2006-2010) Familias had a central role in social policy and poverty
reduction.    Also, the National Council for Economic and Social Policy (CONPES)
approved in June 2005 a document which laid out the design and implementation of a
M&E system for the social protection system. The assessment of risks and the discussion
of mitigation measures were comprehensive for both Project components and correctly
included mention of the 2006 elections. Most risk mitigation measures for Component 1
were incorporated into the design and operating arrangements for Familias.                 Risk
mitigation measures incorporated into the design of Familias worked effectively. Two
risks did not materialize. There was concern that budget cuts could reduce counterpart
resources, but the Government contribution to the Project exceeded expectations. Nor
did violence impede the operation of the program. The risks identified in the Project
Appraisal Document for Component B were generally relevant and adequately mitigated,



7See Implementation Completion and Results Report, Series of Programmatic Labor Reform and Social
Structural Adjustment Loans I and II and a Labor Reform and Social Development Policy Loan III,
December 21, 2007.




                                               6

although in one case (foster the use of results of the M&E system by civil society) actual
progress fell short of the overly ambitious appraisal design (see next paragraph).

Project design was not overly complex, although the two components were not closely
related. The design for Familias was not overambitious and the program was able to
carry out most of the innovations and pilots (See Annex 2). Overall, Project design and
quality at entry is considered to be moderately satisfactory. In addition to the fact that
the project development objective for Component 1 did not focus on the specific results
for poor families, which is mentioned above, there were two other shortcomings. The
first was an oversight in the Bank review of procurement arrangements which did not
include the agreements with paying agencies (commercial banks) to handle the payments
for Familias, even though the commissions charged were financed under the Bank loan
(more details in 2.4 on fiduciary issues). This is considered a moderate shortcoming.
The second weakness is that the design of Component 2 underestimated the time required
to design, pilot and implement the complex and large M&E system needed for the
national social protection system. In fact, the Project Appraisal Document is somewhat
ambiguous on the expected reach of this component. While it was stated that the Project
would finance the initial planning and piloting of MSP's integrated results-based M&E
system, the outcome and intermediate results indicators assume that the system would be
fully operational by the time the Project closed. This is considered a minor shortcoming.

The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) rated quality at entry as Satisfactory.

2.2 Implementation

Overall, Project implementation went smoothly, despite a number of challenges. By the
end of 2007 Familias had registered 1.7 million families, including 250,000 displaced,
exceeding the projections in the AF Project Document.           The program built on the
previous experience and installed capacity of the staff of the National Coordination Unit
within Acción Social and government commitment (national and local) to the program
was sustained.     Nearly all municipalities signed participation agreements with the
program and national financing exceeded expectations. Progress was made to identify
sustainable sources of financing by tapping unutilized resources from earmarked taxes for
the Colombian Institute for Family Welfare (ICBF). The timetable for the expansion as
well as the priority given to reaching the goal of 1.5 million beneficiaries collecting
transfer payments by the end of 2007 did strain the management information system and
the procedures and system to verify compliance with conditions. This may have been
exacerbated by the decision to compensate for the shortfall in reaching the targeted take-
up rate of 70 percent by accelerating the expansion into large urban areas (using national
resources).

Based on its experience with conditional cash transfer programs in Colombia and other
countries, the Bank accompanied the expansion by providing technical support and
responding positively to the request for Additional Financing when the Government
decided to accelerate the expansion of Familias. Cooperation with the IADB remained
close. At the request of the government of Colombia, the two Banks have alternated on
the provision of financing, while working jointly and continuously on Project supervision


                                             7

and technical support. For example, the Bank staff closely accompanied the preparation
of the first phase of a multi-phase operation to support Familias (CO-L1021).

There was a delay of about a year in the start of implementation of Component 2 due to 3
factors. First, because of the high fee charged by the National Fund of Development
Projects (FONADE), MSP decided to handle financial management and procurement,
requiring that the loan be amended. Second, the selection of consultants was delayed by
a government regulation enacted in December 2005 which prohibited the hiring of
consultants as of 4 months prior to the May elections (end January 2006). Third, there
were 3 successive changes in the Director of Planning of MSP over a period of 4 months.
Once the component began to be implemented (planning in late 2006 and start of
activities in early 2007), progress was satisfactory and the MSP proved fully capable of
handling financial management and procurement.             The MSP approached the M&E
activities from a systemic view of the social protection in Colombia, covering social
security (health-public health, public health, health services, and insurance; pensions and
unemployment; and workmen's compensation), social promotion, and labor (training,
labor relations, labor intermediation). This was more ambitious than the implicit focus
on "programs" in the component description in the Project Appraisal Document. The
quality of technical management and of the consultants hired was good. Although
Component 2 covered many substantive areas (health, training, social assistance,
pensions) since the Bank had been involved in these issues through either previous
analytical work or policy-based lending, it was possible to tap staff resources with the
required expertise to provide technical support even if they were not members of the core
team.    The risks identified in the Project Appraisal Document were generally relevant
and adequately mitigated, although in one case (foster the use of results of the M&E
system by civil society) actual progress fell short of the overly ambitious appraisal design.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design is assessed as satisfactory for both components. In the case of Component 1
indicators focused more on process (% of families complying with conditions) than on
outcomes for children (improvements in consumption and health and education levels),
but high quality, reliable information on the latter was available using effective data
collections methods since a rigorous, methodologically sound impact evaluation was in
place. This evaluation used a quasi-experimental approach, with surveys of a group of
beneficiary families and a group of "control families" which did not benefit from the
program, but shared characteristics with the beneficiaries, between 2002 and 2006.
Municipalities were selected using a non-random process. To avoid the problem of pre-
existent differences between control and treatment areas, the authorities decided to use
two methods: difference in difference (DD) and controlling for observable differences8.
The design of the evaluations for the urban pilots was also satisfactory. The take-up and
targeting indicators were both relevant and important. It should be noted that the targets


8For details see Government of Colombia (2008), "Programa Familias en Acción: Impactos en Capital
Humano y Evaluación Beneficio-Costo del Programa", Evaluación de Políticas Públicas, No. 6.




                                                8

associated with the outcome indicators of Component 1 were set with a particular
expansion plan in mind (mostly in rural areas), while the program later evolved to focus
also on urban areas, where the targets can be expected to be very different (see lessons
learned). This highlights the difficulty inherent to the establishment of targets for an
operation that supports an evolving and growing program. In the case of Component 2,
the indicators were appropriate for the technical assistance activities, focusing on
measures of progress and product delivery.

M&E Implementation was partially satisfactory because the planned impact evaluations
for 2 urban pilots (Pozón/Cartegena and Bogotá/Soacha) were not finalized. For the
former, the program started operating before the baseline information was able to be
gathered. For the latter, baseline information was available but the first follow-up was
impossible because Familias expanded to cover the control group. An impact evaluation
was carried out successfully for the urban pilot in Medellín. The last round of data
collection for the impact evaluation of Familias in rural areas and small municipalities
was carried out in 2006 and the analysis completed in 2007. Adequate information on
process indicators was available from the Management Information System of Familias.
In the case of the indicator on targeting performance of Familias, an alternative
measurement had to be used because the required household survey data was not
available. In the case of Component 2, appropriate data was collected to monitor the
progress of designing the monitoring and evaluation system for the MSP.

M&E Utilization is assessed as satisfactory. The results of the evaluations, in particular
the findings from urban areas (both the Medellín pilot and larger municipalities in rural
areas in the original evaluation design), were critical in the design of the program for its
expansion into urban areas.     In addition, the evidence from a secondary education
conditional cash transfer implemented by the city of Bogotá was considered.              In
particular, it prompted the program management to eliminate the incentive for primary
school enrollment and attendance and focus on older children's education. The National
Coordination Unit of Familias utilized the information from their management
information system (MIS) to identify problems, especially at the regional or municipal
level, and take remedial actions and follow-up. The MIS incorporates a system of
"alarms" which identifies localities whose performance deviates significantly from the
norm. The MIS is being further strengthened under the follow-up project and continues
to be critical for program management. In the case of Familias the monitoring and
evaluation arrangements are highly likely to be sustained over the life of the program. A
rigorous impact evaluation for the expansion into urban areas as well as improvements in
the Management Information System are supported by the follow-on project. In the case
of Component 2, as of 2009, the MSP is continuing the efforts under the Project in order
to make its M&E system operational. Sustainability of M&E arrangements for both
components is likely because they are part of a national effort to promote management
for results and systematically monitor and evaluate public programs. Under the National
System of Evaluation of Public Sector Performance (SINERGIA), the National Planning
Department coordinates with other agencies the regular monitoring and evaluation of key
programs through a series of process, institutional and impact evaluations and the broad
dissemination of findings and recommendations.



                                            9

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard Compliance.          The project triggered the safeguard policy relating to
indigenous peoples and an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan was prepared
according to Bank policy and procedural requirements. The Project Appraisal Document
had identified the need to adapt Familias to specific population groups as a second-
generation issue. The social assessment found that the program had generally generated a
high level of interest among ethnic groups and appeared to have had similar positive
impacts on ethnic minority households and communities as it had in other communities,
but also identified some areas for improvement. The IPDP consisted of further studies
and some specific actions regarding the program's training strategy and improving the
monitoring of the ethnic beneficiary population.


The additional financing did not lead to new safeguard issues, but in the areas of Project
expansion (167 municipalities), the Indigenous Peoples Policy (OP 4.10) applied.
Related to the application of those requirements, the Familias National Coordination
Agency decided to expand a study planned in the IPDP for the original Project which was
intended to develop a program strategy for ethnic populations with a special focus on
promotion activities, targeting procedures, training needs and payment procedures, by
adding a pilot test of its recommendations. The purpose was to identify which specific
adaptations in the operating procedures of the program were needed to facilitate
expanded coverage of indigenous communities and to incorporate them in an annex to the
Familias operational manual. The study and subsequent pilot incorporated a consultation
process to ensure culturally appropriate benefits and broad community support. During
2007 the program carried out a pilot in 4 municipalities in three departments
encompassing 3 ethnic groups. The experience of the pilot was the base for preparation
of the IPP for the follow-on project (disclosed October 2008) and the preparation of an
annex to the operational manual on the special arrangements in indigenous communities
which was discussed and agreed during preparation of the follow-on loan for Familias.
Two examples of adaptations made are the use of the indigenous census and community
validation of beneficiary lists to select eligible families and the inclusion of traditional
authorities as signatories to the agreements with the program.

Fiduciary Issues. The implementing agencies (DAPR-Acción Social-FIP and MPS,
respectively for Components 1 and 2) broadly complied with the Bank's fiduciary
requirements. Submission of one FMR and the first audit report for Component 1 were
late. Project FM performance was assessed `moderately satisfactory'. There were no
significant audit findings. Most of the comments in the audit report were related to
weaknesses in the MIS for Familias. These issues were followed-up in the next project
by incorporating a systems audit completed in early 2009.          There were two minor
deviations in the disbursement arrangements described in the Project Appraisal
Document. First, the statement of expenditure form did not include a separate column to
show the balance of refunds from prior payments to beneficiaries. Second, because of the
time it took to complete the payment and reconciliation cycle, there was a longer lag than
expected in the receipt of the documentation on the refunds (uncollected checks) from the




                                             10

first payment to beneficiaries financed under the loan, and the deduction of this amount
from a subsequent payment request.

There was an oversight on Bank review of procurement under Component 1 at the time
of Project appraisal. There was no procurement involved in the transfers' category,
which accounted for the bulk of the loan. However, Bank commissions to be financed
under the loan (initially estimated at around US$3 million, rising to US$10 million,
including Additional Financing) were classified under operating costs although they were
relatively large expenditures and governed by existing agreements between the program
and several commercial banks.       These agreements should have been reviewed and
described in the Project Appraisal Document. The ex-post reviews (2) for Component 1
covered relatively small expenditures on individual consultants working on specific
issues (indigenous themes or early childhood development) and the results were
satisfactory. One ex-post review for Component 2 was carried out in February 2009 and
the results were satisfactory.    One of the conclusions was that the MPS possessed
sufficient capacity to implement the procurement plan and to administer the contracts.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The Colombian National Council for Economic and Social Policy approved borrowing
for up to US$1.5 billion from the Inter-American Development Bank and the World Bank
to finance the operation of the expanded Familias during 2007-2010. The fourth World
Bank loan to support Familias through 2009 and 2010 was declared effective on
February 9, 2009. It is intended to provide a vehicle for continued technical support for
the challenges currently faced by the program, including operating in large cities and in
new areas some with low capacity (indigenous and Afro-Colombian populations),
modernizing procedures, and addressing exclusion errors. The theme of social protection
and in particular Familias is prominent in the government's strategic vision for the
country's development in the next 15 years, known as Vision Colombia 2019. According
to the National Development Plan 2006-2010, Familias is a key element in the social
protection system and in the strategy to reduce extreme poverty. The cost of Familias is
financially sustainable within the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (2006-2010),
which sets ceilings on public investment and recurrent spending, consistent with the
overall fiscal targets of the government and accounts for 2 percent of social spending.
For 2009, program costs would represent about 0.27 percent of GDP.

As of mid-2009, the MSP continued to develop the M&E system supported under
Component 2 and is furthering its operation as part of the Ministry's regular activities in
the Planning Department. It is expected that the system will generate the necessary
monitoring reports for the various dimensions of the social protection system based on
the initial design. The MSP has hired a team of 7 consultants (the same who participated
in the design phase and were financed under the Bank loan) with the objective of
consolidating and institutionalizing the M&E system in order to ensure its sustainability.
During 2009 MSP also expects to begin to contract the program evaluations which had
been identified and the publication of reports and bulletins containing the information
from the M&E system. MSP plans to expand the M&E system so that by 2010 the
system is fully institutionalized and is operating efficiently. The MSP has also actively


                                            11

participated in the development of the national SINERGIA methodology and evaluation
program, and remains a key innovator and leader in M&E in Colombia. The further
strengthening of SINERGIA is supported by another World Bank operation (Ln. 7620).


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives, design and implementation of the Project were highly relevant, and have
remained consistent with Colombia's development priorities. In the case of Familias this
is clearly demonstrated by the government's decision to expand the program (including
the request for AF); maintain it as central program in the social protection system and its
extreme poverty reduction strategy; and the approval of a fourth loan in support of the
program.     In the case of the M&E System for MSP, the objectives were and remain
highly relevant to the government. In fact, a loan was recently signed to support the
national efforts to improve monitoring, evaluation and the quality of information. (Ln.
7620) The MSP continues to consolidate its role as the lead agency in social protection,
including in the efforts to improve and strengthen the system.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Objective of Component 1:          To strengthen the country's social safety net by
consolidating and expanding the successful Familias Conditional Cash Transfer
program.

Familias expanded to register 1.7 million families (including 250,000 displaced),
exceeding the figure in the Project Document for the additional financing. In terms of
outcome indicators, the program displayed a strong performance on targeting (first
outcome indicator). To measure this indicator, an alternative measurement had to be used
due to unavailability of the data on income and consumption poverty at the time of
writing this ICR. Although it is not possible to fully compare the original target with the
alternative measurement, in substance the target can be considered to be met, with circa
95 percent of beneficiaries of the program belonging to the poorest 20 percent of the
population (in terms of SISBEN assets score). More details related to the targeting
outcome indicator can be found in Annex 2.

On the other hand, while gains were registered for the 3 other outcome indicators, the
values observed as of the closing date for the component (mid-2008) fall short of the
targets set, as shown in the table below. The coverage of the eligible population of the
program is below the target, even if it improved from the baseline. Indeed, it proved
difficult to raise the rate of participation among eligible SISBEN 1 families, in large
measure because the take-up rate is much lower in larger cities and the program expanded
into these areas. This lower take-up in urban areas is to be expected, and has been the
experience with other CCT programs in Latin America. In retrospect, the high target
take-up rate set in the original Project was too ambitious for a program that was
expanding into more urban areas. Annex 2 contains more discussion of the shortfall in the


                                            12

participation rate, particularly the performance in large cities. Similarly, it proved
difficult to increase the rates of compliance with the education and health conditions
amongst beneficiaries. This is partly due to the rapid expansion of the program, which in
some areas was accompanied by a temporary gap in the operation of the system of
verification of compliance with conditions. This gap resulted in difficulties in controlling
compliance, which does not signify that the children themselves were not attending
school or visiting health centers. The pace of expansion of the program led to
shortcomings in its operation which account for some of these results.

In terms of overall impacts on results, which are the ultimate objective of the program,
the results provided by the impact evaluations more than counterbalance these
shortcomings. Indeed, the impact of the program on education, health and nutrition
outcomes for the beneficiaries (both linked to the actual transfers and to the increase in
enrolment, attendance and visits to the health centers) are large and significant ­ children
increasing their attendance (especially in rural areas), their nutritional status (especially
amongst young children), and their status at birth (higher weight) (see section below for
further details).

Targets for the intermediate indicators relating to the expansion were exceeded, and the
target in terms of establishment of collaboration agreements between the program and
municipalities was almost met. Indeed, over 1,000 municipalities signed agreements, with
the notable exception of the capital city of Bogotá. The other shortfall, as mentioned
earlier, is on the target set for the take-up rate in the new municipalities (mostly urban
areas and large cities), which was over-ambitious in light of the experience in other
countries. With the introduction of the Red Juntos program in Colombia, which focuses
on identifying the poorest households, and with the stabilization of the Familias program
itself once the expansion is completed, the take up of Familias can be expected to
increase over time.

                    Indicator                        Baseline Target       Actual Value at
                                                                             Completion
Outcome indicators
At least 40% of benefits of Familias going to
bottom quintile                                        40%       40%           95.6%*
At least 70% of SISBEN I families covered in
participating municipalities                           60%       70%            62.1%
At least 80% of primary-age school children in
extremely poor beneficiary families attending
school at least 80% of the time                        70%       80%            71.9%
At least 95% of beneficiary 0-6 year old children
completed growth monitoring and health check-
ups, according to MSP protocol                         90%       95%            91.7%
Intermediate indicators
At least 70% of the total revised SISBEN 1
families in newly entered municipalities are
registered in the program.                               0       70%            66.4%



                                             13

                         Indicator                          Baseline Target           Actual Value at
                                                                                         Completion
100%        of    municipalities      have     signed   a
collaboration agreement with program.                            0         100%              99.9%
Beneficiary        information      booklets    designed,
published and distributed to new municipalities
with training.                                                   0           57               466
System for monitoring human capital conditions
operating for new selected areas.                                0           57              466**
*Actual value uses a different methodology than baseline indicator, as explained in Section 3.2 on p. 12.
**During program expansion in 2007, there were gaps in the operation of verification system in some
localities, but this was corrected by mid-2008.
Note: Outcome indicators are in bold. Others are intermediate indicators. Two intermediate indicators are
updated in Table 2 in Annex 2.



The Project also aimed to support Familias in its transition phase to a larger, second
generation CCT program, which included implementation of pilots, testing of innovations,
and advances in program strategy and design. Satisfactory progress was made in this
area which covered a series of specific issues. Highlights are presented here with more
details available in Annex 2.                Improvements in the targeting instrument (the
responsibility of the National Planning Department) plus the capacity of the Familias
National Coordination Unit enabled the program to take on these additional challenges,
addressing some second generation issues identified in the Project Appraisal Document,
although not without difficulties in some areas. For example, the expansion of the
program was combined with a re-certification process. Those participants who no longer
qualified (about 150,000 families) were dropped from the program. This process was not
completely smooth since effectively all participants were dropped from the program and
then had to re-register. The program adapted its operations to more diverse regional
areas as it expanded, for example poorer municipalities on the Pacific Coast with a high
share of Afro-Colombian population.               The innovation of paying families in nearby
municipalities or in temporary sites in locations without banks (caja extendida) was
carried out, and based on its success, extended to 167 municipalities. The program also
began efforts to modernize the verification system in order to exchange databases with
service providers. In September 2006, the government through the National Council of
Economic and Social Policy (Document #102 ­ Social Protection Network for Extreme
Poverty) defined the role of Familias as the entry point and cornerstone for the new
strategy and ratified the continued role of Acción Social as the implementing agency and
institutional home. More recently this strategy is being complemented with measures
which would address the exclusion errors identified in Familias.

Results of Impact Evaluation

According to the most recent results of the impact evaluation of the program (based on
data collected in 2006) in rural areas and municipalities of less than 100,000 inhabitants,




                                                    14

Familias had a significant positive impact on the human capital factors which the
program was trying to influence9. In particular, education, health, and nutrition outcomes
had improved considerably amongst beneficiaries. These improvements are significantly
larger than changes observed amongst control households.

Impact on education. The impact on attendance was largest for secondary students,
especially in rural areas.     In urban districts (department capitals), attendance rates
increased by around 5 percentage points, while in rural areas the increase was a bit above
7 percentage points. Improvements were smaller for primary school attendance, with an
increase of around 2 percentage points in rural areas, and no significant impact in urban
zones. The lower impact on primary school enrolment is likely due to the higher initial
enrollment.     Children 14-17 living in rural areas experienced the largest effect of
Familias on school attendance ­ an 8-9 percentage points increase.

Impact on health and nutrition. The impact of Familias on child nutrition was also
noteworthy. The prevalence of chronic malnutrition (height for age) amongst beneficiary
children aged 0 to 6 in rural areas is 9 percentage points lower than amongst children in
the control group. The program also reduced global malnutrition (weight for age) in
children less than 3 years of age in rural and urban areas, by 6 and 4 percentage points,
respectively.

The program also had an impact in child birth weight, which increased almost a pound
(526gr) in urban areas as a result of better nutrition among recipient mothers. The
program also had a positive impact on breast-feeding, which increased by 27 percent (2.8
months) among children under 2 in rural areas and by 24 percent for children in urban
areas. In urban areas, health controls increased by 44 percentage points for children
between 3 and 7 years of age, and by 20 percentage points in rural areas.

Impact of Familias in Medellín. The authorities completed an impact evaluation on the
effects of a pilot of the urban program in Medellín. This evaluation followed a group of
beneficiaries and a control group over a period of a year, between October 2006 and
December 2007. Overall, the evaluation of the program in Medellín shows positive
impacts in education and health, but no measurable effect in nutrition. The short period of
participation in the program is likely to limit the impacts observed, especially for
dimensions which change slowly (e.g. nutritional status amongst older children).

The largest impact of the program on education is observed amongst secondary school
students. School attendance for children in beneficiary families increased by almost 8
percentage points to 88 percent, while the control group saw an increase of only 4
percentage points. No significant effect was measured on primary school attendance,


9For details see Government of Colombia (2008), "Programa Familias en Acción: Impactos en Capital
Humano y Evaluación Beneficio-Costo del Programa", Evaluación de Políticas Públicas, No. 6.




                                               15

likely a reflection of the initially high level of school enrolment in Medellín. In terms of
health, the prevalence of acute respiratory disease amongst children aged 0 to 6 in
beneficiary families is 13.8 percent lower than amongst the control group children.

Objective of Component 2: Strengthen the country's social safety net by improving the
monitoring and evaluation of the country's safety net portfolio.

Assessment of the achievement of project objectives in this case is complicated by two
factors. First, the MSP approached the M&E activities using a systemic view of social
protection (appropriate, more comprehensive and more ambitious), slightly different from
the implicit approach on `programs' reflected in the Project description and targeting
indicators. Second, as mentioned earlier, the expected reach of the work on the M&E
system was somewhat ambiguous in the PAD. While the terms "initial planning and
piloting" were used in the component description, the indicators assume that the M&E
system would be fully operational and publicly available.

The outputs associated with the 3 specific objectives are summarized below:
    Results-based budget: The MPS carried out a pilot with the Institute of Family
        Welfare. The result was a preliminary version of a results-based budget with the
        construction of 55 product indicators and 14 result indicators and the
        identification of baselines and targets for all of them.
    Evaluation of current programs: MPS identified the areas, methodology and
        themes most relevant for the system of social protection and prepared the Terms
        of Reference for the contracts.       This evaluation agenda was presented and
        discussed with the Committee for Inter-sectoral Evaluations, led by the
        Evaluation Department of the National Planning Department.             The agenda
        includes 14 evaluations of results, 6 of impact, and 4 of execution.
    Improve transparency and accountability: MSP organized a public audience
        where the advances on the M&E system were presented. MSP also designed a
        strategy for a continuous process of "citizen accountability" and a web page for
        the M&E system. Two bulletins, one covering general social protection issues
        and one covering workmen's compensation, were developed and are being
        reviewed with the intention of publication.

Annex 2 includes more details for both these objectives and for the 9 activities that were
to be undertaken. It also includes a summary of the indicators (including baselines,
sources of information, targets aligned with overall government priorities as set out in the
national development plans and other documents) developed for each of the strategic
objectives of the social protection system.

There were two outcome indicators for this objective:

    Publicly available information on the coverage, financing, and impact of key
        social safety net programs managed by the MSP and its affiliated institutions.
    At least 50 percent of social safety net programs of the MSP and at least two of its
        affiliated organizations are included in the M&E system.



                                              16

The goal set out in the first outcome indicator was not achieved. Because the M&E
system is not yet in operation, the information available to the public covers only: (a) the
advances in the design of the system; (b) data on all investment projects in the social
protection system, including their respective operational and results indicators and targets
for 2008 and 2009, on the basis of which they will be monitored; and (c) inputs on social
protection in government documents. In retrospect, this target was too ambitious given
the 2 year implementation period of the loan. In the case of the second indicator, the
design and structure of the M&E system for the MSP covers most of the institutions of
the social protection system (there are some gaps, for example, family allowances and the
related institutions). It can be considered that more than 50 percent of the system is
included in the design of the M&E system, still not fully operational. For affiliated
agencies, there are 20 agencies under the MSP, however 5 of these are being liquidated
and only 7 have investment resources and these are included in the M&E system design
so far. Information on the 3 intermediate indicators is provided in Annex 2. For these
the targets have not been fully met, primarily because they are judged to have been too
ambitious.

On the other hand, more generally, the Project has had a series of positive spillover
effects, beyond the stated objective of setting up the system ­ in particular, it has
contributed to the development of the national methodology for the monitoring of
programs and investment projects and led to an effort to rationalize and re-organize
programs in the ministry itself (through the introduction of logical frameworks for
results).

3.3 Efficiency

The impact evaluation already referred to above included a detailed benefit-cost analysis
of Familias. The analysis values the benefits of the program through the increased future
earnings that result from: (a) lowered incidence of underweight infants, (b) lowered
incidence of malnutrition and child morbidity among children zero to six years old, and
(c) increased years of secondary schooling. The effects of Familias on these outcomes
are derived from the impact evaluation and are then monetized using evidence from a
combination of sources. Costs were also estimated.          Comparing the benefit and cost
figures, the authors estimate a ratio of benefits to costs of 1.59, which is high by
traditional cost-benefit ratio standards and suggests that the CCT is worth its cost. It
should be noted that this analysis does not consider other benefits, including the increased
household consumption (other than through child nutrition and birth weight) and other
later gains in productive, healthy lives for the children and society at large. Since
Component B is technical assistance, no efficiency calculation was made.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

If the team were to rate the outcome of this project strictly on the basis of performance on
the outcome indicators, it would be moderately satisfactory. However, after taking into


                                            17

consideration the overly ambitious indicators, the rigorous evidence that Familias
improved human capital formation, and the achievements and positive spillover effects of
the activities related to the M&E system of the MSP, the overall outcome rating is judged
as satisfactory. In the case of the first objective (relating to the Familias CCT), the
program expanded beyond expectations. While actual performance on most indicators
fell somewhat short of the target, there were improvements compared to the baseline, and
these can be considered significant in the context of the major expansion of the program
during Project implementation. Most importantly, the results from the rigorous impact
evaluation validated the program's positive and substantial impact on household
consumption and human capital formation among children. Progress was made on the
series of activities related to the maturation of the program. In the case of the second
objective (relating to the MSP M&E system), while achievements fall short of the targets
set out in the chosen indicators, this was primarily a result of being overambitious in the
time frame of the Project. In addition, the component went beyond the scope of the
activities and adopted a more ambitious and relevant approach. The overall outcome
rating is based on the larger weight of the first objective in the Project, as well as the
substantial achievements for the second objective.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The expected impact of Familias in reducing poverty was achieved. The results of the
impact evaluation showed that the program reduced the rate of poverty for participating
households by nearly 3 percentage points overall, and to a greater extent in rural areas.
There was a larger reduction in extreme poverty (nearly 17 percentage points) with a
larger impact in more urban localities.      This result suggests that the program was
effectively targeted to the very poorest households. Information on other impacts is
available for the independent spot checks which the program contracts which include
surveys of beneficiaries. Nearly all mothers participating state that their family benefits
from the program, and that without the program, it would have been more difficult to
ensure the school attendance of their children and sufficient food for them. They value
the opportunity to socialize with other mothers, receive useful information, and
strengthen their role within their own families. The mothers have a positive view of the
"encuentros de cuidado" organized by the program not only because of the information
they receive, but also because of the chance to meet other mothers and the local
authorities. In broad terms, the survey responses demonstrate that the program has
promoted social capital and social control, especially for the mothers.      This positive
view of the program among beneficiaries should contribute to its sustainability.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Component 2 helped to increase the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Social
Protection because it helped to develop technical instruments and information which
assisted in the decision-making process. In fact, the achievements of the Project are
concentrated in this area, rather than only the development of a M&E system. The work


                                             18

financed by the Project contributed to the broader work of the Ministry in several specific
areas including the definition of the National Public Health Plan, defining the framework
for the medium-term expenditure framework, and modification in the organizational
structure of the Vice-Minister for Labor. In that sense the project contributed to the
longer-term development of the capacity of the Ministry of Social Protection. It also
contributed to broader changes in the institutional capacity of the national government in
monitoring and evaluating its programs, in particular through its participation in the
efforts to implement SINERGIA.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Not applicable

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low or Negligible

The assessment of risk to development outcome in the Project is negligible to low. For
both objectives, implementation is well aligned with the operating environment in
Colombia and in the Bank. Ownership by Government and other stakeholders is high.
More specifically, referring to the first objective, Familias is in its 7th year of operation
and continues to be important in the Government's development plan. The government
has maintained a central role for Familias within the strategy to reduce extreme poverty.
Familias is generally well regarded by the population and local authorities. The positive,
independent impact evaluation results and the quality of the program have helped to build
a consensus for it. There is strong evidence that after several years of operation, public
and private institutions and civil society accept the program.             In late 2008 the
government of Colombia decided to expand Familias to a target of nearly 3 million
families, thereby covering a higher share of those eligible mainly in urban areas,
including large cities. On the one hand, the continued expansion of Familias could
improve its impact if it helps to reduce exclusion errors and the adjustments made in
urban areas are effective in maintaining its positive impact on secondary school
attendance. On the other hand, the results in large cities could be less than has been
recorded so far in smaller localities and could require further adjustments to the program
design in order to be effective. Development outcome would also be protected by the
planned improvements in underlying systems such as the targeting instrument and the
Management Information System which would serve to strengthen the program
technically. Follow-on financing from both the Bank and the IADB, as well as from
domestic resources, has been arranged through 2010 and the program is included in the
Medium-term Expenditure Framework.

In the case of the second objective, the rating is the same. The Ministry of Social
Protection continues to have a lead role in social protection for strategic and regulatory


                                             19

functions. In addition, the Ministry has developed specific plans and actions in order to
institutionalize the activities supported by the Project.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry


Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank's performance in ensuring quality at entry was moderately satisfactory for the
following reasons. The Bank had long been involved in social protection and related
areas in Colombia, via substantial analytical work and investment and adjustment lending
and this is reflected in the quality of background analysis and in project design. The
Bank project team was broad based, incorporating needed expertise and several staff and
consultants with experience in conditional cash transfer programs. On technical aspects,
the Project incorporated the lessons from the previous loan which supported the initiation
of Familias and international experience on CCT programs. The economic analysis was
solidly grounded on the results of the first round of the impact evaluation of Familias.
Project preparation and design satisfactorily addressed gender and social development
aspects, carrying out a social assessment and supporting the preparation of an Indigenous
Peoples Development Plan (IPDP).           Monitoring and evaluation arrangements for
Familias built on an existing strong impact evaluation design, whose results would be
updated during project implementation and the management information system in place.
Component 2 responded well to the requirements of the MSP.

However, there are moderate shortcomings. One, project development outcomes and
indicators could have been better developed, in the case of Familias (Component 1) to
focus more on the specific results expected for poor families (increase in consumption
and human capital formation). Also, as discussed earlier, the Bank team should have
considered adjusting some of the targets when the AF was presented in light of the
planned major expansion of the program. Indeed, the large expansion (in contrast to the
small expansion envisaged in the original Project) should have been expected to result in
a lower take up (as per international experience) and the period of expansion could be
expected to present a series of technical challenges that would temporarily disrupt some
of the program's operations. A second moderate shortcoming is the oversight in the
procurement analysis. The review of the existing agreements between the program and
several commercial banks to handle the payments to beneficiary families which should
have been carried out was neglected. This oversight may have occurred because these
expenditures were included as part of operational costs, in spite of their high value
(initially estimated at around US$3 million, rising to US$10 million, including Additional
Financing). These agreements should have been discussed in the Project Appraisal
Document, although the expenditures accounted for a relatively small share of loan
financing (5 percent as of closing).




                                              20

The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) rated the quality at entry of this project as
Satisfactory.   QAG rated two dimensions--Policy and Institutional Aspects and
Implementation Arrangements -- Highly Satisfactory and none less than satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance is rated satisfactory for the following reasons. The team focused on
development impact, reporting regularly the performance on 6 indicators, including key
outcomes. Close attention was paid to the results of the ongoing impact evaluation of
Familias as well as the Medellín urban pilot. During supervision visits the Bank team
discussed with the Colombian authorities the strategy to reduce extreme poverty and
changes in the targeting strategy and methodology. The Bank team participated in two
seminars organized by the Government on issues related to the expansion of conditional
cash transfer programs into urban areas. The Bank responded in a timely fashion to the
Government's request for Additional Financing in late 2006. Regular procurement and
financial management reviews were carried out and the ratings reflected in the ISRs,
although the Bank team could have been more proactive in identifying the gap in
fiduciary oversight for bank commissions and taking remedial actions. The ISRs updated
the implementation of the Indigenous Peoples Plan, particularly the expanded actions
agreed for the Additional Financing.

Supervision inputs and processes were adequate. Supervision visits were undertaken and
ISRs prepared twice year. Transition to a new task manager in mid-2006 was well-
coordinated and thereafter fairly stable team composition allowed members to become
well-acquainted with both components. The placement in the field of a highly qualified
consultant experienced with government and social programs facilitated an ongoing
dialogue on analytical issues. The team included members who were familiar with the
context of social protection and the overall efforts of the Government on monitoring and
evaluation. Specifically for Component 2, the Bank provided extensive feedback on the
documents and activities carried out through meetings and discussions arranged with
experts. In particular, at the request of the MSP, the Bank arranged for the participation
of pension experts, including the delivery of training to MSP staff in-country.
Supervision was coordinated closely with the preparation of the Additional Financing, of
the Inter-American Development Bank loan, and most recently preparation of the follow-
on World Bank loan. Management reviewed and commented on the issues raised in the
ISRs.   The Project was included in a special review of control and accountability
mechanisms in Conditional Cash Transfer Programs carried out in May 2006 by the
Social Protection Sector of the Human Development Department of the Latin America
Region10. The quality of performance reporting was satisfactory. Staff highlighted



10 Control and Accountability Mechanisms in Conditional Cash Transfer Programs: A Review of
Programs in Latin America and the Caribbean, Operational Innovations in Latin America and the
Caribbean, Volume 1, Number 1, March 2007.




                                             21

important issues, including the delays in MSP on Component 2, low take-up during the
expansion of Familias, difficulties with the agreement between the program and the city
of Bogotá, and the likelihood that not all activities envisaged for component 2 would be
carried out.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Taking into account the two moderate shortcomings identified in Bank performance in
ensuring quality at entry, overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Borrower's performance is considered satisfactory, from preparation through
completion. Since Project approval, the Government has provided strong leadership in
the area of social protection, to which it accords high priority. Project objectives were
closely aligned to the goals of the National Development Plan and the Government's
overall efforts to strengthen monitoring and evaluation of public programs. Decisions on
poverty reduction strategy which included discussion on the future role of Familias, were
closely coordinated between the Department of National Planning, Acción Social, and the
Ministry of Social Protection. As a result, the Government decided to further expand
Familias. At the time of both Project design and during implementation, the Department
of National Planning was actively involved in discussions on Familias, particularly in the
areas of impact evaluation, supporting analytical work (for example, the review of the
structure of conditions and proposed modifications for urban areas) and participating in
the review of the operations manual and added substantial value. National financing
exceeded substantially the level which had been estimated.           The Government also
continued to give priority more broadly to their national agenda for monitoring and
evaluation. One shortcoming in this area was the delays in the preparation of one of the
impact evaluation designs, resulting in the inability to collect baseline information before
the program registered beneficiaries. This was the responsibility of the evaluation group
of the Department of National Planning. Finally, the Borrower was pro-active in donor
coordination, specifying the desired arrangements for the provision of both financing and
technical advice from the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Acción Social through the National Coordination Unit of Familias was responsible for
implementation of Component 1. The agency was highly committed to the objectives of
Familias and key staff was highly capable and stable in their positions. Consultations
with stakeholders, primarily with mayors and indigenous communities were on the whole


                                             22

satisfactory.    The relationship and coordination between the Program and the
municipality of Bogotá after the program expanded into large cities in late 2007 was
somewhat problematical. To date in Bogotá, the program operates under a general
framework agreement between the municipality and Acción Social, instead of the more
specific agreement with the program that it has with all other municipalities of the
country.     There are periodic, regular consultations with beneficiaries and other
stakeholders through independent, periodic spot checks. The Project was ready for
implementation because it was already in operation and the expansion targets (both in the
original project and in the additional financing) were exceeded.            Disbursement
performance was close to target and even with the Additional Financing, Component 1
was only extended by 6 months from the original closing date. Fiduciary management is
judged moderately satisfactory because of delays in receipt of the annual financial audit
(2006) and FMRs (end date December 2007).            Agency handling of reimbursement
requests was satisfactory.

The Ministry of Social Protection through the Department for Planning and Policy
Analysis was responsible for implementation of Component 2. Minor shortcomings
included the initial delay in beginning implementation.      Once activities started, the
Ministry gave the activities high priority and ensured high-quality technical supervision
and administrative support. Fiduciary management is judged satisfactory and agency
handling of reimbursement requests was satisfactory. Both Acción Social and the MSP
provided the Bank with bi-annual reports on implementation of the Project, as stipulated
in the legal agreement.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Overall Borrower Performance is considered satisfactory, in view of the Government
and the Implementing Agencies' performance.

6. Lessons Learned

     Importance of strong Borrower commitment, ownership and leadership.
        Since its creation in 2001, the objectives and coverage of Familias have evolved.
        The Government has expanded the program to cover the entire country and in the
        National Development Plan (2006-2010), defines its role in the social protection
        system and in the strategy to reduce extreme poverty.

     The operation of CCT programs in urban areas presents certain challenges
        which need to be addressed. These challenges are multiple. First, numerous
        municipalities already have their own programs, which need to be coordinated
        with Familias, to avoid duplication, confusion and high transaction costs. Also,
        there are municipalities with mayors with high political profiles, which might
        create obstacles to a smooth coordination and collaboration with national
        programs such as Familias. Finally, the international experience shows that there



                                             23

 are challenges in achieving a high participation rate in large cities, partly due to
 the different situation and needs of poor urban families, communication
 difficulties when the social networks are weaker, and higher opportunity costs for
 some families (transportation, etc.). The program will need to address the reasons
 for this lower take-up in the longer-run.

 The operations of CCT programs in indigenous communities may require
 adjustments in the standard procedures. Modifications may be necessary in
 targeting instruments, the negotiations process, and the types of agreements
 signed with local authorities.

 A pro-active role of the government in donor coordination can be effective in
 providing an overall framework for cooperation. The Government requested
 that the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank provide
 sequential financing for Familias, but requested that the two agencies organize
 their technical and operational support as if they were co-financing. In practical
 terms, this meant that both institutions cooperated in Project preparation and
 supervision, regardless of the stage of their particular financing.

 Substantial time and effort is required to establish a monitoring and
 evaluation system for the social protection system. Given the complexity of
 the social protection system (social security, social promotion and labor market
 and employment) and the numerous entities involved each with different
 institutional structures, the task of articulating a design should have envisaged
 much more time than the 2 years envisaged. This was particularly the case for the
 MSP, given that the design process implied continuous training and capacity
 strengthening activities for the entities in the sector which needed to occur in
 parallel with the advances on design.

 If there is sufficient ownership of monitoring and evaluation activities, there
 can be important spill-over effects. In the case of MSP, the process to design
 the M&E system facilitated the organization and expansion of knowledge about
 the operation of the social protection system and contributed to the definition of
 indicators to guide actions in some areas. For example, in the case of Juntos (the
 network for the reduction of extreme poverty) the program decided to use the
 indicators developed by the MSP. In addition, the project spearheaded work on
 the regulatory details for law 1122/07, article 2, related to the monitoring of
 health and welfare indicators, and in a way that it was consistent with the design
 of the M&E system.

 Reaching the poorest households is a challenge. Targeting the poorest is a
 difficult task, as these groups are the hardest to reach, because of their isolation,
 their high degree of physical mobility, their lack of connection with social
 services and other networks. The program will need to continue to work on
 improving its outreach mechanisms, to deploy greater efforts to reduce errors of
 exclusion (when eligible families are not in the program). The experience with



                                      24

       the Red Juntos, which has a mandate to identify and reach the poorest of the poor
       will provide important lessons.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                         25

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing (Lns. 7337 and 7433)

                                      Summary Project Costs

Component/                      Appraisal Estimate        Actual (USD millions)             Percentages
Category of Expenditure            (includes AF)
                             Bank      Gov.      Total   Bank     Gov.      Total
                             (1)       (2)       (3)     (4)      (5)       (6)      (4)/(1) (5)/(2)   (6)/(3)
Component 1:
Consolidation and
Expansion of Familias en      189.85    6.34     196.2   189.85    80.89    270.74   100%     1276%    138%
Acción
A. Subsidies                  178.9     .920     179.8   179.7      69.4    249.1    100%     7543%    139%
B. Bank Commissions             10.7    .560      11.3    10.1       .870    11.0      94%     155%      97%
C. Studies                      .250              .250     .047               .047     19%               19%
G. Project                              4.860    4.860             10.621   10.621    219%    219%     219%
Administration11
Component 2: Improving
the Monitoring and
Evaluation System of MSP        1.4       0       1.4     1.2        0       1.2      86%               86%
Total                         191.25    6.34     197.6   191.05    80.89    271.94   99.9%    1276%     138%




11Government-financed administrative costs for Familias was not included in the project document for AF,
so figures reflect estimates only at time of appraisal of original Project. Higher actual cost (US$10.6
million vs. US$4.86 million) is explained by the major expansion of program as well as the 6 month longer
implementation period.




                                                    26

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Consolidation and expansion of the Familias en Acción program
(US$190 million in loan financing, including Additional Financing).

In the case of component 1, this annex contains additional detailed information on
outputs in 3 general areas during Project implementation: expansion of the program; data
on the number of children participating for whom transfers were received; an update on
progress on the innovations and/or second generation themes which were expected to be
addressed, including some information related to intermediate outcome indicators;
measurements of targeting performance; and more discussion of the factors behind the
shortfall in the target set for the participation rate.

Program Expansion. When Familias started it operated only in municipalities which
had a population of less than 100,000 and the required education, health and banking
services, and included only those families classified as poor (level 1 according to the
SISBEN). In 2004, the program reached around 340,000 families in 627 municipalities.
As the table below shows, between 2004 and mid-2008, the number of municipalities
participating increased by 75 percent, and the number of participating families more than
tripled and covered displaced families as well as SISBEN 1 families.

                                  Figure 2.1: Families in Action




   2,000,000                                                                                       1200
                                                                                 1,093      1,093
   1,800,000
                                                                                        1,735,942
   1,600,000                                                                                       1000
                                                                     848      1,594,743
   1,400,000                                                                                       800
   1,200,000                 622         627     627       702

   1,000,000                                                                                       600

     800,000
                  350                                               623,205
     600,000                                                                                       400
                          365,307    346,449              412,364
                                               333,112
     400,000
               165,359                                                                             200
     200,000

           0                                                                                       0
                2001       2002       2003      2004       2005                  2007     2008


                                         Beneficiaries        Municipalities


   Source: Familias Program data. Figures refer to registered families. Only those families complying
   with the conditions receive transfers. Figures include both SISBEN 1 and displaced families, the latter
   financed with national resources. Displaced families receiving transfers totaled about 110,000 in 2006,
   170,000 in 2007, and 240,000 in 2008.




                                                    27

Number of children participants for whom payments were made. The table below
shows the trends in the number of children for whom transfers were paid by the Familias
program.

            Table 2.1: Summary of Child with Payments by Type of Subsidy

Period            No. of           Nutrition     Primary            Secondary         Total
              Municipalities                      School               School
2002               620             247,342       322,587              184,475          754,404
2003               627             264,537       345,004              197,303          806,844
2004               627             225,460       357,159              218,562          801,181
2005               702             275,622       438,362              293,986         1,007,970
2006               848             513,130       578,204              411,282         1,502,616
2007              1093             1,679,634     1,119,174            961,159         3,759,967


       Table 2.2: Progress on Implementing Innovations and Addressing Second
                                      Generation Issues

Innovations/Second generation issues            Status as of June 30, 2008
identified in the Project Appraisal
Document
Well-defined entry and exit rules.              Entry and exit rules made clearer in most
                                                recent version of Operations Manual. Indicator
                                                to monitor exits with detailed data on reasons
                                                added in follow-on project.
Appeals mechanism for rejected cases.           Better defined in Operations Manual and
                                                decision made recently to accept "new
                                                families" who were registered previously in
                                                SISBEN.
Work with local organizations in urban areas in Strategy turned out to be different, focusing on
order to address exclusion errors.              synergies with local public services (schools
                                                and health facilities) as well as media.
More flexible entry criteria.                   Permanent registration procedures established
                                                for the displaced population. Pending
                                                challenge is to extend that mechanism to other
                                                eligible families.
Establish procedures for regular re-            In 2006-2007, those beneficiaries who were not
certification.                                  classified as the lowest level of SISBEN when
                                                the revised targeting instrument was applied
                                                were dropped (an estimated 150,000 families).
                                                No standard procedures for re-certification
                                                established. No decision yet made on how the
                                                newest version of SISBEN being rolled-out in
                                                2009-2010 would be incorporated.
Adjustments for diverse regional areas and      Program made substantial adjustments for
population groups.                              indigenous communities, urban areas, and
                                                populations with a high proportion of Afro-
                                                Colombians (in operations manual, structure of
                                                conditions, promotional activities). In


                                               28

Innovations/Second generation issues           Status as of June 30, 2008
identified in the Project Appraisal
Document
                                               indigenous communities registration
                                               requirements are different and operation is
                                               based on the leadership of traditional
                                               authorities and existing community
                                               organizations.
Strengthen links to other programs that could  Decision made to drop eligibility restrictions
help families improve their standard of living for children in Hogares Comunitarios. One of
more rapidly and address issues of             the main objectives of the Juntos program
complementarity between Familias and other     (network for the reduction of extreme poverty)
programs such as Hogares Comunitarios.         being implemented by the government is to
                                               link the beneficiaries of Familias with other
                                               social programs in order to help them improve
                                               their standard of living. Unutilized ICBF
                                               resources being used by Familias to partially
                                               finance the nutrition transfer.
Possible modification of conditions.           Conditions reviewed by National Planning
                                               Department and the National Coordination Unit
                                               of the program. On basis of review, it was
                                               decided to test alternative structures for the
                                               conditions in urban areas, including dropping
                                               the condition for primary school and
                                               differentiating between grades at secondary
                                               level, and adding a one-time benefit for
                                               completion of secondary school.

Concentrate efforts on secondary, instead of   New structures of conditions being
primary education. Differentiation of benefits implemented in urban pilots concentrate on
by grade level.                                secondary education and some schemes are
                                               differentiated by grade level.
Criteria and procedures for expansion of       Program has expanded in certain localities in
program in times of crisis.                    response to specific events, but no standard
                                               criteria or procedures have been established.
Inclusion and approach for disabled youth.     Initial diagnostic carried out for cognitive
                                               disabilities and proposal pending to expand the
                                               nutrition subsidy to these children until they
                                               reach 18 years of age.
Electronic transfers in urban areas.           Payments in several large cities, including
                                               Bogotá handled through electronic debit cards.
Extension of banking services to rural         Pilot successfully implemented and extended.
municipalities without banks (caja extendida).
Expand training activities to cover early      Strategy designed and training materials
childhood development.                         developed for caregivers. Pilot implemented in
                                               30 municipalities. Goal is to expand to 200
                                               municipalities during 2009.

MIS includes data on ethnic origin of          MIS separates out participants living in
beneficiaries by geographic area.*             indigenous communities. Registration form for



                                              29

Innovations/Second generation issues                          Status as of June 30, 2008
identified in the Project Appraisal
Document
                                                              Familias includes place for data, but it turned
                                                              out to be difficult to fill in the information
                                                              during the registration process.
Technical document, satisfactory to the Bank,                 National Economic and Social Policy Council
available that outlines the characteristics of the            approved the Document: Network of Social
future conditional cash transfer program based                Protection to Reduce Extreme Poverty (No.
on the experience of Familias en Acción.*                     102), September 25, 2006, which outlines role
                                                              of Familias ratifies the role of Acción Social as
                                                              the implementing agency and its institutional
                                                              home.
Note: * Included in intermediate outcome indicators.

Targeting Performance. Household survey data on consumption and income was not
available in time to be used to calculate the incidence of benefits of Familias, as was
envisaged in the Project Appraisal Document. Hence, an alternate methodology had to
be used. The results suggest that, in terms of targeting, the Familias en Acción program
is highly effective in reaching the poorest quintile in the country. Focusing on families
that are not characterized as displaced, circa 97.3 percent of all beneficiaries belong to the
poorest two deciles in the country, defined as the individuals with the lowest scores in the
SISBEN (multidimensional measure of well being based on assets and other living
conditions). Amongst the displaced families (who are eligible for the program
irrespective of their poverty status), circa 85.0 percent of beneficiaries belong to the
poorest two deciles, while another 11.3 percent belong to the next quintile.

                                Table 2.3: Distribution of Beneficiaries

                                                          Distribution of Beneficiaries
  Population deciles           displaced population                non-displaced                      Total
                                                                     population
1                                        76.8%                          86.9%                        85.5%
2                                        8.2%                           10.4%                        10.1%
3                                        7.9%                            2.0%                         2.8%
4                                        3.4%                            0.4%                         0.8%
5                                        1.2 %                           0.1%                         0.3%
6                                        0.7%                            0.1%                         0.2%
7                                        0.5%                             0.0                           0.1
8                                        1.0%                             0.1                           0.2
9                                          0.2                            0.0                           0.0
10                                         0.1                            0.0                           0.0
Total                                    100%                           100%                         100%
Footnote: The deciles are deciles of individuals, defined in terms of the SISBEN score of their family. To estimate the
distribution, the following steps were followed: first, the cut-off points that define the 10 deciles over the entire
population (urban and rural separately) were calculated using the Quality of Life Survey of 2008 (Encuesta de Calidad
de Vida). Second, these cut-off points are then imported into the SISBEN database. Third, the SISBEN database is
merged with the Familias en Acción program, in order to identify the population quintile to which each individual
belong (this merger successfully matches circa 85 percent of individuals).




                                                           30

It is interesting to note that the beneficiaries of the Familias en Acción program are
roughly equally distributed within the SISBEN 1 population (their target group), as
shown in Table 2.4. This underlines that, despite its very good targeting mechanism, the
program does not reach some of the poorest individuals in the country and would require
a more pro-active strategy to effectively bring these families into the program. Amongst
the poorest 1.5 million families (defined in terms of their SISBEN score), for instance, 37
percent of families are in the program, another 37 percent is eligible but not in the
program, and the final 26 percent is not eligible (no children under 18). This realization
has led to the design of the target population for the JUNTOS program, which now
focuses on the poorest families, irrespective of their inclusion in the Familias program,
and will be used to try and connect the 37 percent of families that are eligible but not
beneficiaries with the Familias program.

                Table 2.4: Population Benefiting from the Program (%)

                                      Percentage of population benefiting
                                      from the program
                Population            Urban areas         Rural areas
                quintiles within
                the SISBEN 1
                population
                1                     21%                 18%
                2                     22%                 20%
                3                     22%                 20%
                4                     19%                 21%
                5                     17%                 20%
                Total                 100%                100%




Program Participation. The Familias registration process for SISBEN 1 families has
some particular features. First, registration takes place only once during a specific,
limited period of time in each municipality. Second, responsibility for the registration
process is shared between each municipality and the National Coordination Unit for the
program. Third, in most municipalities (including Bogotá), all SISBEN 1 families with
minors under 18 could sign-up for the program. But because of fiscal restrictions in 15
large urban areas there was also geographical targeting. The poorest neighborhoods in
these cities were identified and only eligible families in those neighborhoods could
register.

According to the most recent registration results, the take-up of the program is 62 percent
among eligible SISBEN 1 families, with substantial variation depending on the
municipality, suggesting that in some localities the program needs to address exclusion or




                                             31

type 1 errors.12 Municipalities with a population over 100,000, particularly large cities,
had lower take-up rates (See Figure 2.2). In Bogotá the take-up rate was about 30 percent.
(These take-up rates are likely to increase now as a result of the decision of the
government to expand further the program).

                                               Figure 2.2: Participation Rate by Type of Municipality

                                              1,800,000.00                                                  80%
                                              1,600,000.00                                                  70%
            nerdilhc                                                  68%
                                              1,400,000.00
                                 sr                                                  59%                    60% et
                                              1,200,000.00                                            50% 50%     ra

                    hit            yea        1,000,000.00
                                                                                                            40%
                       w                        800,000.00
                        s                                                                                   30%
                         ieil         18rednu   600,000.00

                             maF                400,000.00                                                  20%     noitapicirtaP
                                                200,000.00                                                  10%

                                                        -                                                   0%
                                                             Mun . =< 100 mil Mun > 100 mil Big cities > 100
                                                                 people         people        mil people

                                                                    Municipalities by population


                                             Potential Families SISBEN 1        Families Registred
                                             Participation rate 2008

          Source: Bank staff estimates based on Familias Program data.

The Department of National Planning commissioned a study to analyze the factors behind
the take-up rate. The study found no evidence that more disadvantaged families (lower
scores on the SISBEN or a higher number of children) tended to register less. On the
other hand, registration was less likely for those living in more isolated areas. The study
identified several other factors. One, a small part of the "under-registration" of SISBEN
1 is accounted for by the displaced, as some of these families are registered in the
SISBEN, but have entered Familias in the category of displaced. Two, there can be
glitches in the list of eligible SISBEN 1 families. There are reports of the lists including
non-eligible families (minors, families without minors, dead) and excluding families who
believe that they are eligible. Three, the logistics of the registration process and the
limited promotion by some municipalities may reduce take-up. Information may not
reach all eligible households.                                     Some families have trouble presenting all of the
documentation required in time.                                     Fourth, because some families may consider the
opportunity cost to register and to participate (time, transport costs) high, they may



12Type 1 errors occur if a truly eligible individual does not apply for benefits or if truly eligible individuals
apply for benefits and are rejected. For comparison, in the case of Chile Solidario, a smaller program using
extensive municipal out-reach to register eligible families, the take-up rate is about 95 percent. In the US,
take-up rates vary: 80-90 percent for the Earned Income Tax Credit, 70 percent for food stamps and 40
percent for childcare subsidies.




                                                                            32

decide not to participate. The study made three recommendations. The first was to
devote more time and care to an ex-ante cleaning up of the SISBEN lists before they are
used for registration. The second was to allow more time for the registration process.
The third was to organize the registration process better in order to reduce waiting times.
In the registration processes now taking place in the follow-on project, the National
Coordination Unit is taking into account the third recommendation and other
complementary actions, with a view to improving the take-up rate.

Component 2: Improving the monitoring and evaluation system of the Ministry of
Social Protection (MSP) in order to better track and critically review the country's
social safety net portfolio (US$1.4 million in loan financing).

The outputs associated with the 3 specific objectives of the component are summarized
below:
     Results-based budget: The MPS carried out a pilot with the Institute of Family
        Welfare (Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar ­ ICBF) to test the
        approach since the information needed to calculate the indicators was available.
        This was a combined effort between MPS, ICBF, and a foundation. The result
        was a preliminary version of a results-based budget with the construction of 55
        product indicators and 14 result indicators and the identification of baselines and
        targets for all of them.
     Evaluation of current programs: In the area of evaluation, the MPS identified
        the areas, methodology and themes most relevant for the system of social
        protection and prepared the Terms of Reference for the contracts. This evaluation
        agenda was presented and discussed with the Committee for Inter-sectoral
        Evaluations, led by the Evaluation Department of the National Planning
        Department. The agenda includes 14 evaluations of results, 6 of impact, and 4 of
        execution.
     Improve transparency and accountability: MSP organized a public audience,
        attended by about 150 people, where the advances on the M&E system were
        presented. MSP also designed a strategy for a continuous process of "citizen
        accountability" (rendición de cuentas) and a web page for the M&E system. In
        addition, two bulletins covering general social protection issues and one covering
        workmen's compensation were developed.         The bulletins are currently being
        reviewed by MPS with a view to their publication.


The component was to finance the initial planning and piloting of the MSP's integrated
results based M&E system.        The Project Appraisal Document identified 9 specific
activities to be undertaken under this component. A brief description of each and the
status at project completion are shown in the following table.




                                            33

Table 2.5: Status of Activities for M&E system for the Ministry of Social Protection

Activity                          Status
Institutional assessment to       Initial diagnostic done as first step for the work on each part
analyze the capacity of MSP and   of the social protection system. In the area of monitoring, the
its agencies in carrying out      diagnostic included institutional aspects, as well as existing
evaluation and monitoring         norms, sources of information and information systems.
including data collection,        Baselines were defined for the indicators for social protection
analysis, and reporting.          policies and projects, which helped to formulate the proposed
                                  reports for the M&E system. In the area of evaluation, all of
                                  the existing evaluations in the social protection system were
                                  reviewed.
Development of a strategic plan   The M&E system was structured into 3 components, aligned
for the establishment of a        with the SINERGIA model: Monitoring, Evaluation, and
sustainable integrated M&E        Citizen Accountability (rendición de cuentas). Indicators
system, including the key         were defined according to the objectives of the social
indicators to be measured.        protection system. 11 strategic objectives were defined and
                                  43 specific objectives as the base for the identification of the
                                  indicators. Table 2.6 presents the numbers of indicators
                                  developed by objective. For half of the indicators data to
                                  calculate the value is available through the SISPRO. The
                                  other half has the protocol for the calculation. In addition, an
                                  executive summary was made for all investment projects
                                  active as of 2008 in the social protection system and for each
                                  one; indicators and goals were defined as part of the M&E
                                  system.
Training key government           In the process of defining and designing the M&E system,
officials to implement, use, and  staff of the Planning and Policy Analysis Department of the
benefit from an M&E system.       MSP received training on the structure and composition of
                                  the system and presentations were made and discussions held
                                  with other departments of the Ministry on the relevance and
                                  validity of the indicators, their interpretation and the
                                  procedures for collecting the information and calculating the
                                  indicators.
Build a consistent information    The MSP has an information system (SISPRO) which is
platform accessible to the MSP    being consolidated. Thus it was considered premature to
programs.                         assume that the operation of the M&E system would require a
                                  new information platform. For this reason, the MSP
                                  progressed in the operation of the M&E system and on the
                                  basis of these advances will define in the future any
                                  information platform requirements.
Select several institutions,      During 2007, the M&E system was implemented in the
governed by the MSP, with         following institutions governed by MPS: Instituto
which to pilot the strategic plan Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar (ICBF), el Servicio
and implement the plan in these   Nacional de Aprendizaje (SENA), el Instituto Nacional de
programs.                         Salud (INS), el Instituto Nacional de Vigilancia de
                                  Medicamentos y Alimentos (INVIMA).


Expand the plan to the same       A territorial diagnosis was prepared and in view of its results


                                               34

Activity                             Status
programs that are managed by         it was decided that this activity had to be deferred. The
selected territorial entities.       territorial entities had little understanding of the concept of
                                     the social protection system and the information required for
                                     a M&E system was scarce. The territorial entities required
                                     specific capacity strengthening on the social protection
                                     system before an M&E system could be designed and
                                     applied. This capacity building is now being carried out with
                                     the support of another Bank project.
Develop a social control             MSP organized a public audience, attended by about 150
component, with the                  people, where the advances on the M&E system were
collaboration of civil society.      presented. MSP also designed a strategy for a continuous
                                     process of "citizen accountability" (rendición de cuentas) and
                                     a web page for the M&E system. In addition, two bulletins
                                     covering general social protection issues and one covering
                                     workmen's compensation were developed. The bulletins are
                                     currently being reviewed by MSP with a view to their
                                     publication.
Expand the integrated M&E            During 2008, the M&E system was expanded to the
system to include other agencies     following agencies of MSP: el Instituto Nacional de
of MSP.                              Cancerologia (INC), la Superintendicia de Salud y la
                                     Superintendencia del Subsidio Familiar. In all 7 agencies
                                     were covered. In addition, all 88 investment projects of the
                                     social protection system were monitored.
Disseminate the results and          Before disseminating to other ministries, the M&E system
experiences in setting up the        needs to be operating adequately. This requires reviews and
M&E system so that other             adjustments coordinated with the National Planning
Ministries can learn from the        Department. This activity could not be carried out based only
experience.                          on the design of the system.




       Table 2.6: Indicators by Strategic Objective of Social Protection System

                               Strategic Objectives                                        No. of
                                                                                         indicators
1. Improve the health of the Colombian population and control the principal                 81
factors that affect it
2. Financially protect the population against the economic risks associated with            25
health and guarantee access to services
3. Improve the quality and efficiency of the General System of social Security              27
in Health (Sistema General de Seguridad Social en Salud ­ SGSSS)
4. Financially protect the population against the economic and health risks                 16
associated with employment and improve the quality and the efficiency of the
General system for Professional Risks
5. Guarantee the availability of protection mechanisms against the risk of                  25
poverty or indigence in old age for the elderly, the vulnerable, and the
economically active population.

6. Generate the necessary conditions for the efficient, equitable and sustainable           10
use of the resources destined for protection against the risks of poverty and


                                                  35

                               Strategic Objectives                                 No. of
                                                                                  indicators
indigence in old age.
7. Improve the quality of life particularly of the most vulnerable and poor          77
individuals and families
8. Generate the necessary conditions for job creation for the economically active    14
population
9. Improve the quality of employment                                                 29
10. Prepare human resources for employment                                           29
11. Institutional strengthening of the System of Social Protection                    5
TOTAL                                                                                338


Information on achievement of the 2 outcome indicators is presented in the datasheet. No
progress was made on the activities expected to be measured in the intermediate outcome
indicators (results based indicators for 4 programs publicly available, integration of the
MSP M&E system with SIGOB/SINERGIA through application software, and the
number of hits on the MSP M&E system website) because they related to results of the
actual operation (not the design and piloting stage) of the M&E system. Their inclusion
is considered to be overambitious given the expected 2 year execution period. However,
it is important to note that the Project had a series of more fundamental impacts on the
Ministry's institutional capacity (linked to the development of a logical framework for all
core programs), on the presentation of its investment projects in the national investment
database (DNP), and on the development of a results-based orientation in some of its
affiliated agencies.




                                                  36

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Since Component 2 is technical assistance, economic and financial analysis is not
applicable. In the case of Component 1 (the Familias conditional cash transfer program),
the economic analysis presented in the Project Appraisal Document drew on the results of
the first round of the impact evaluation (based on data from 2003). The main objective of
Familias was to improve the living conditions and human capital investment of poor
households. The expected beneficiaries were about 1.4 million children living in 400,000
poor households. Effects were expected for current participants in the program, as the
assumption was that if the program didn't continue then the previous positive effects
would stop, although the benefits of previous capital investment would persist.             In
addition, the proposed expansion meant that 17 percent more people would be getting
these benefits. Impacts were expected in several areas including consumption (higher
food consumption and improved quality), education (enrollment, mainly for secondary
school) and health (reduction in malnutrition, higher vaccination coverage, reduction in
diarrhea, increased visits to health centers). Both additional years of schooling and the
reduction of malnutrition would be expected to have a positive impact on future life
earnings. In addition, positive impacts were expected to be seen in higher vaccination
coverage and lower rates of diarrheal disease.

In general, results were in line with expectations, based on the results of the impact
evaluation from the 2006 round in rural areas and from the urban pilot in Medellín. And
the benefits were received by more children since the program expanded to register about
1.7 million families by the closing date of this component.

Impact for rural areas and municipalities below 100,000 inhabitants

In the area of consumption, program households consumed more food and the increased
expenditure was directed towards increasing quality as evidenced by significant increases
in items rich in protein such as milk, meat, and eggs (Attanasio and Mesnard 2006)13.
In the case of education, as expected the impact on attendance was largest for secondary
students, especially in rural areas. In urban districts (department capitals), attendance
rates increased by around 5 percent points, while in rural areas the increase was a bit
above 7 percentage points. Improvements were smaller for primary school attendance,
with an increase of around 2 percentage points in rural areas, and no significant impact in
urban zones. The Program also reduced the average number of years of repetition for
children 12-17 by nearly 1 year.

In the area of health, visits to centers increased by 44 percentage points for children
between 3 and 7 years of age, and by 20 percentage points in rural areas. The effect of
the Program on vaccination coverage was positive, but only significant for children less
than 24 months. There was a 9.5 percentage point reduction in reported cases of diarrhea


13Conditional Cash Transfers: Reducing Present and Future Poverty, A World Bank Policy Research
Report, 2009.




                                              37

among children. Child birthweight increased almost a pound in urban areas as a result of
better nutrition among recipient mothers. The program also had a positive impact on
breast-feeding, which increased by 27 percent (2.8 months) among children under 2 in
rural areas and by 24 percent for children in urban areas. The prevalence of chronic
malnutrition (height for age) amongst beneficiary children aged 0 to 6 in rural areas was
9 percentage points lower than amongst children in the control group. The program also
reduced global malnutrition (weight for age) in children less than 3 years of age in rural
and urban areas, by 6 and 4 percentage points, respectively.

Results from Medellín Pilot

The authorities completed an impact evaluation on the effects of a pilot of the urban
program in Medellín. This evaluation followed a group of beneficiaries and a control
group over a period of a year, between October 2006 and December 2007. Overall, the
evaluation of the program in Medellín shows positive impacts in education and health,
but no measurable effect in nutrition. ­ the latter may be because of the short period of
time of the evaluation. Secondary school attendance for children in beneficiary families
increased by 4 percentage points. There was no significant effect on primary school
attendance. In terms of health, the prevalence of acute respiratory disease amongst
children aged 0 to 6 in beneficiary families is 13.8 percent lower than amongst the control
group children.

Benefit-Cost Analysis

Information is also available from a benefit-cost analysis of Familias, which is more
comprehensive that the framework presented in the Project Appraisal Document. The
detailed analysis was undertaken in conjunction with the impact evaluation jointly by the
Institute for Fiscal Studies, Econometria, and Sistemas Especializados de Información
(IFS et al, 2006). The analysis values benefits of the program through the increased
future earnings that result from: (a) lowered incidence of underweight infants, (b)
lowered incidence of malnutrition and child morbidity among children zero to six years
old, and (c) increased years of secondary schooling. The effects of Familias on these
outcomes are derived from the impact evaluation and are then monetized using evidence
from a combination of sources (e.g. a net additional year of secondary school education is
assumed to increase future income by 8 percent based on estimates of Mincerian rates of
return; an increase of 0.4 kilogram in birth weight is assumed to increase future income
by 5 percent based on international evidence).         When these monetized benefits are
discounted the total net present value of benefits was calculated to be US$259.4 million.

Costs summed up to $163 million and consisted of: (a) program costs for both the
nutrition and education components, (b) the private costs incurred by the household for
additional food and education expenditures, (c) private household costs of collecting
transfers, (d) infrastructure and input costs of additional school and health center supply,
and (e) the public cost generated to finance the CCT. Comparing the benefit and cost
figures, the authors estimate a ratio of benefits to costs of 1.59, which is high by
traditional benefit-cost ratio standards and suggests that the CCT is worth its cost. This



                                             38

ratio also means that even if the assumptions used in this model are imperfect, costs
would need to increase 59 percent relative to benefits in order to reach a point where the
benefits do not justify the costs. It should be noted that this analysis does not consider
other benefits, including the increased household consumption (other than through child
nutrition and birth weight).




                                            39

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
           Names                        Title               Unit

Wendy Cunningham        Senior Economist                   LCSHS

Andrea Vermehren        Sr. Social Protection Specialist   LCSHS
Sonia M. Levere         Language Program Assistant         LCSHS
Theresa Jones           Task Team Leader (after July 2006) LCSHD
Andrea Vermehren        Task Team Leader (until July 2006) LCSHD
Francisco Ochoa         Consultant
Jorge Barrientos        Consultant
Diana Isabel Cardenas   Consultant
Tarsicio Castaneda      Consultant
Aline Coudouel          Senior Economist                   LCSHS
Wendy Cunningham        Senior Economist                   LCSHS
Jeannette Estupinan     Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM
Peter Anthony Holland   Operations Officer                 LCSHE
Jose M. Martinez        Senior Procurement Spec.           LCSPT
Andrew D. Mason         Senior Economist                   LCSHS
Maria Claudia Vasquez
Alvarez                 Consultant

Sonia M. Levere         Language Program Assistant         LCSHS
Rafael Rofman           Lead Social Protection Specialist  LCSHS
Andre Medici            Sr. Economist (Health)            LCSHH
Patricia M. Bernedo     Language Program Assistant         LCSHS




                                         40

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                 28                       170.35
  FY06                                 20                        87.43
                        Total:         48                       257.78
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                                           19.22
  FY07                                 29                       177.34
  FY08                                 31                       137.57
  FY09                                 25                        98.1
                        Total:         85                       413.01




                                    41

Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

For Component 1, the ICR was reviewed by Acción Social through the Familias National
Coordination and there were no revisions requested to the document. In the case of
Component 2, the ICR prepared by the Ministry of Social Protection is included here.

     Component B: System of Monitoring and Evaluation of the System of Social
                                 Protection (M&E of SPS)


1. Development Objectives of the Project and Outcome Indicators

The original objectives of the project remained during Project execution. These were to:

    i)      Strengthen the technical capability of the Ministry to evaluate and monitor
            the Social Protection System (SPS);
    ii)     Strengthen the budget preparation process, by relating it to the results of the
            System of M&E; and
    iii)    Increase the transparency of the operations of the Ministry of Social
            Protection (MPS), the regulatory entity of the SPS, by publishing the results of
            the System of M&E.

Activities from Component B were carried out to reach these objectives. These activities
mainly focused on the design of the System of Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). In the
development of the Project, activities where specified in accordance with the objectives.
Specifically, M&E was designed as an instrument for decision-making in the SPS
through the acquisition and organization of relevant information to support policy
decisions, investments and the institutional proposals of the sector. Through the M&E
System, which included analysis and the institutional context of all areas comprising the
sector, it will be possible to: (a) improve substantially the availability of information on
the results and impact of policies, programs and projects; (b) strengthen decision-making
based on timely and quality information; and (c) increase the capacity to be accountable
to citizens. Thus, the MPS would strengthen its capacity as regulatory entity and
formulator of sector policy. More generally, the MPS will have valuable information on
institutional performance on the achievement of objectives.          Thus, the System of
Monitoring and Evaluation would influence planning over and beyond the preparation of
the budget.

Indicators of Outcome of the Project:

a. Information available to the public on the coverage, financing, and impact of
    important programs for social protection managed by MPS and its associated entities.

This indicator was not fulfilled since the system is not yet available to the public;
however, significant results have been achieved with regard to public information on the



                                             42

Project relating to both the MPS and its associated entities, among which the following
can be highlighted:

       For investment projects, the work carried out to prepare executive summaries,
       define indicators and goals and their respective monitoring is available in the
       System of Monitoring of Investment Projects (SPI), operated by the Division of
       Investments and Public Finance of the DNP, (http://spi.dnp.gov.co) and will be
       available to the public in August 2009.
       Fifteen executive summaries of the components of the sector were disseminated
       in the publication "What does the Colombian Government invest in: Major
       projects of the Community-focused State in 2008" of the National Department of
       Planning.
       A first progress report on the results obtained by the sector is the "Report to
       Congress",       which    is   found     in    the    Website     of     the   MPS
       (http:/www.minproteccionsocial.gov.co).

b. At least 50% of the programs of social protection of the MPS and at least 2 of its
   associated entities are included in the system of monitoring and evaluation.

   This indicator was completely fulfilled and the principal results are presented below:

    At the level of policy, the objectives, indicators, and goals for the entire sector
       were defined covering 100% of the SPS.

    With regard to the development of social protection programs/projects, there are
       88 investment programs/projects distributed in the MPS and 7 associated entities.
       These latter are: Colombian Institute of Family Welfare (ICBF), the National
       Service of Learning (SENA), the National Institute of Health (INS), the National
       Institute of Surveillance of Drugs and Food (INVIMA), the National Institute of
       Oncology (NCI), the Health Authority and the Authority for the Family Subsidy.
       The 88 programs/projects are included in the System of M&E, and for each the
       following was carried out: i) a review of objectives; ii) identification of expected
       results; iii) a survey of the process carried out for its execution; iv) agreeing on
       outcome indicators, baselines and goals and on an annual updating.

Intermediate Results:

a. Results-based indicators published for four important social welfare programs

   The project developed outcome indicators for all the investment projects of the social
   protection sector, 88 in 2008. Part of this work was disseminated in the publication
   "What does the Colombian Government invest in: The major projects of the
   Community-focused State in 2008." This document includes 15 projects of the sector.
   In addition, the monitoring indicators for all projects are available in SPI, a tool that
   will be available to the public as of August 2009.




                                            43

b. Integration between the System of M&E and the computer application SIGOB

    With regard to the integration of the System of M&E with SIGOB, all the indicators
    of the SIGOB are part of the System of M&E and are updated and follow other
    procedures using the protocols established by the System of M&E. The integration of
    the System of M&E into the information platform for SIGOB will only be possible
    when SISPRO14 is fully implemented, as it is the government's view that it would be
    most efficient to use the existing informatics platform of the MPS.                     This is
    particularly the case given that 50% of the indicators of the System of Monitoring and
    Evaluation can be calculated in the SISPRO.

c. Increase the transparency and accountability of the programs of the Social Protection
    System strengthening the participation of civil society in the performance monitoring
    of the MPS.

    The project has a strategy to disseminate the results and products of the SPS which
    would be implemented. The guidelines established in the strategy were an input for
    the public audience held in 2008.

The structure and operation of the System of M&E of the SPS has been defined and even
though there is not yet an integrated computerized tool, annual and quarterly reports have
been developed "manually".
It is important to point out that the intermediate indicators of the Project focus mainly on
the public diffusion of results but did not consider important aspects of the progress of
the Project and of the System of M&E such as the strengthening of the framework for
monitoring the SPS and for the budget process.


2. Design, Implementation, and Experience of the Project

The framework for the original design of the Project was the methodological manual
"Ten steps toward a system of results-based15 monitoring and evaluation" and the
structure developed by the National Department of Planning for SINGERIA (the three
components of monitoring, evaluation and accountability). Also, the project emphasized
the areas of Social Promotion, Training for Work, and Family Allowances and the
executing institutions for these policies (ICBF, SENA and 15 Compensation Funds).
Implementation was expected to take two years at the central level in the entities
aforementioned (first phase) and then would expand to all the entities of the Social
Protection Sector (second phase) with again an implementation period of two years. A
year after the project began (first phase) it was decided that the activities could be



14Social Information System for Social Protection

15Ten Steps Towards a System of Monitoring and Evaluation Based on Results, Jody Zall Kusek, Ray
Rist, World Bank 2005.




                                                 44

initiated in all entities (second phase). Also it was expected that a pilot study would be
undertaken at the territorial level in the first phase in order to be expanded in the second
to a significant proportion of departments.

With regard to this design, the project maintained the original structure proposed and the
methodological framework of steps and components. The activities were distributed in
three components: monitoring of program management, evaluation of results, and citizen
accountability. However, after the first few months of implementation, a different work
plan was proposed taking into account the following considerations:

     The areas initially selected - ICBF-Promotion Social, SENA - Training for Work
        and Family Compensation Funds - although important did not cover the entire
        Social Protection System
     The principal sectors of the System proposed for the second phase included the
        General System of Social Security that includes the Health System, Pensions, and
        Occupational Risks.
     It was premature to develop a System of M&E at the territorial level in the first
        year of work, especially since a clear structure for the role of the System of Social
        Protection at the territorial level was lacking

Thus the strategy to develop the project was changed by defining more clearly the areas
that comprise the Social Protection System and are governed by the MPS: (i) Public
Health, (ii) Health Services and Insurance, (iii) Occupational Risks, (iv) Pensions, (v)
Social Promotion, (vi) Family Allowance (vii) Labor Market, and (viii) Training for
Work.

The initial work proposed was a diagnosis with the aim of making the approach to the
sector more coherent and consistent, examining two aspects: (1) a general one that
included for each area the existing institutional framework, the associated financial
resources and their sources, and the existing information systems, as well as their
condition; and (2) a second aspect that included a review of objectives by area, the
existence or not of valid monitoring indicators, the identification of the principal
programs and the existence or not of indicators of the products of these programs, the
consistency of the action plans with the foregoing and the evaluation practices that
existed in the sector.

Based on what has been described previously, a second Project activity consisted of the
formulation of objectives and general indicators of the social protection sector, the
establishment of goals and baselines for each indicator and the definition of the source
and methodological details.

In this regard and given the structure of the System of M&E in its three components, the
Project permitted:

    o At the policy level, the identification of the eleven strategic objectives of the
        Social Protection System, from which 43 specific objectives are derived and



                                              45

        served as the base to define 338 indicators with the respective methodological
        details. Of these 50% have the information for their calculation in the SISPRO;
        for the other 50% protocols were prepared for their respective estimation.

In the following table presents the objectives defined and the number of monitoring
indicators for each one. It is possible through basic tools to consolidate all of the
indicators with their respective updated information, as well as annual and quarterly
monitoring reports.

                        Table 5.1: Indicators by Strategic Objectives

                               Strategic Objectives                                  Total
                                                                                   Indicators
 1. Improve the Health of the Colombian Population and control the principal          81
 factors that affect it
 2. Financially Protect the population against the economic risks associated with     25
 health and guarantee access to services
 3. Improve the quality and the efficiency of the General System of Social            27
 Security in Health (SGSSS)
 4. Financially Protect    the population from the economic and health risks          16
 associated with work and improve the quality and the efficiency of the General
 System of Occupational Risks
 5. Guarantee the availability of mechanisms of protection against the risk of        25
 poverty and extreme poverty in old age for the vulnerable and economically
 active population.
 6. Generate the necessary conditions for the effective, equitable and sustainable    10
 use of the resources destined for protection against the risks of poverty and
 extreme poverty in old age
 7. Improve the quality of life particularly of the most vulnerable and poor          77
 individuals and families
 8. Generate the necessary conditions for the creation of jobs in the economically    14
 active population
 9. Improve the quality of the employment                                             29
 10. Prepare human resources for work                                                 29
 11. Institutional Strengthening of the System of Social Protection                    5
 TOTAL                                                                               338

    o With regard to the level of projects, an executive summary was prepared together
        with the management and/or responsible entities for each of the 88 projects of the
        sector devising monitoring indicators (management and product) as well as goals
        applying to 2008. Those indicators are registered in the System of Projects of
        Investment of the DNP (SPI).

    o With regard to the evaluation component, the areas, methodology and the subjects
        of evaluation most relevant for the SPS were identified, and the Terms of
        Reference of those evaluations were designed. This is summarized in an agenda
        of evaluations that was presented and discussed with the Intersectoral Committee
        of Evaluations, led by the DEPP of the DNP. This agenda includes 14



                                                46

         performance audits, 6 assessments of impact and 4 executive evaluations in
         accordance with the priorities and requirements defined by the MPS for the SPS.

    o For the component of accountability a strategy of diffusion of results was defined.
         The strategy designed specific products that are reflected in the Plan of Media
         Communications such as the use of a Website for the System, two bulletins of
         "What are the Advances on Social 16 Protection", among others. This strategy was
         presented to the Office of Communications, the responsible area in the MPS. In
         relation to dissemination and to the participation of civil society, a public
         audience was carried out. The public audience was attended by nearly 150 people
         and the progress for each area defined in the System of M&E was presented. It
         should also be noted that the guidelines of the strategy served as input for the
         reformulation of the national accountability policy, an activity led by the
         Administrative Department of the Civil Service.

    o With regard to the objective of incorporating results into the processes of budget
         preparation and execution, it was proposed to use the results of the System of
         M&E. Thus a pilot with the Colombian Institute of Family Welfare was carried
         out jointly with Fedesarrollo17, the MPS, and the ICBF. As part of the PPR
         (results based budget), this group defined 55 product indicators and 14 outcome
         indicators; their baselines were identified, and goals were defined for each one.
         The Budget by Results of the ICBF for fiscal year 2009 includes the total budget
         for Operations and Investment; moreover, there is a link between the indicators
         (management and product) and institutional goals (considered in the National
         Development Plan, Sector Plans, and the Indicative Plan of the Institute) and the
         budget of the entity. At present, the PPR is in the process of implementation by
         the Management of the ICBF as a methodology for the programming, monitoring,
         and evaluation of the physical and financial resources of the entity, thereby
         facilitating public decision-making using the tool of results-based management.

    o For the operation of the system, an Operational Manual was prepared to guide the
         process of application. In this Manual the design of the annual reports that should
         be generated by the system is presented, both at the policy and project levels, as
         well as the quarterly progress reports for the investment projects. Similarly, it is
         established that the system is the source of information for documents such as the
         Report to the Congress and the Goals that the Minister presents annually in a
         televised conference.          The Division of Planning and Policy Analysis is
         responsible for leading the implementation and operation of the system.




16The first bulletin refers to the general framework for the social protection sector and the second to the
area of occupational risks. These bulletins are being reviewed by the MPS prior to their publication.

17Fundación para la Educación Superior y el Desarrollo. Ver www.fedesarrollo.org




                                                    47

    o In the process of defining and designing the System, the staff of the Division of
         Planning were trained on the structure of the system, the definition and
         calculation of the indicators, preparation of reports, among others topics.
         Moreover, there were presentations and discussions with the other technical areas
         of the MPS on the importance and validity of indicators, their interpretation, and
         procedures for gathering information and calculating the indicators.

The project in essence developed the objectives proposed in the sense that it generated
technical instruments to support the decision-making process that would thereby
strengthen the activities of monitoring and evaluation at the sector level. The System of
M&E tried mainly to support institution building for monitoring and evaluation in the
technical areas of the Ministry as well as in the other entities of the sector. Evidence of
this is that the work carried out by the consultant team has served as input for:

         The technical definition of the evaluation of the General System of Participation
         in the health component
         The definition of the National Public Health Plan, to the extent that the objectives
         and indicators of this plan coincide with those of the System of M&E
         The definition of the conceptual model of the Occupational Risks Information
         System
         The identification and consolidation of the monitoring indicators for the Network
         for the Elimination of Extreme Poverty (Juntos)
         The updating and monitoring of the investment projects of the sector used for
         2008 and 2009 and for the programming of 2010
         The definition of the structure of the Framework of Medium-term Expenditure of
         the Ministry of Finance and the DNP
         The Budget by Results of the ICBF
         The structuring of a proposal for the organization of the Labor Vice-Ministry and
         its functions jointly with the technical directors of the labor area. This work was
         approved by the Labor Vice-Ministry
         The contents of the Public Audience of the MPS
         The structure and preparation of the Report to the Congress 2007­2008
         The agenda of evaluation of the Intersectoral Committee of the DNP
         The adjustment of the Sectoral Strategic Plan, identifying those strategies that
         require strengthening
         The support for the process of regulation of the Law 1122/07 in its article 2,
         related to the monitoring of health and well-being indicators

4.       Principal factors that affected Project Execution and Results

4.1.     Project Preparation and Quality of Design

         The project design addressed the principal needs of the Social Protection System
         and the Ministry with regard to monitoring and evaluation of its policies. The
         conceptualization of the component and its structure were also adequate.
         However, the initial design emphasized the area of social promotion and it did not



                                              48

      include other essential areas for the Ministry and the sector. This was corrected
      and the final Implementation Plan included all relevant areas of the Social
      Protection System. As a consequence of this change, the Project took on areas
      which were more complex and the estimated implementation period of two years
      for completion was too short.

      The Project was expected to begin in January 2006 but its execution was delayed
      for a year given the following circumstances:

    - Given the high commission required by FONADE, the entity that was to have
      supported the MPS in the management of the loan resources, and taking into
      account the policy of the Bank to use country systems, the MPS decided that it
      would manage the loan, which required an amendment to the loan agreement and
      as a result, a delay in its early stages.
    - The Law of Electoral Guarantees, with effect until the month of May 2006, did
      not permit the direct hiring on the part of any entity of the State, including the
      MPS.
    - The changes of the Director of Planning of the MPS, implied a process of
      appropriation of the Project on the part of the Director.

4.2.  Implementation

      The process of implementation is regarded as successful. The project advanced
      significantly in the conceptualization of the Social Protection System, developed a
      general structure for the sector, defined objectives and indicators of outcome in all
      areas of the SPS, and facilitated the linking of general policy objectives with
      projects and public investment. In this way, there was a fundamental technical
      advance under the Project.

      The Project to date is in the process of implementation, and consequently an
      essential factor to achieve the progress of the activities advanced by the project is
      the appropriation of the different instruments by the officials who are part of the
      Ministry and its associated entities, as well as others responsible for taking
      various policy decisions.

4.3.  Operation after Closing

      The Project is continuing its development and is in the implementation stage,
      applying the Operational Manual. It is expected that in 2009 the System would
      generate the reports related to the monitoring component, for which the MPS is
      financing a team of the same 9 consultants who worked on the design, with the
      aim to work in the area of family allowances, to consolidate the system and to
      continue with institutionalization, all of which would ensure its sustainability.

      During 2009 some of the evaluations defined in the agenda were contracted and
      the publication of reports and bulletins on the principal results obtained through



                                             49

     the System of Monitoring and Evaluation was started. These activities will
     continue in 2010.

     Currently, the MPS plans to apply the system within the framework of the
     investment project "Implantation of the Plan of Studies and Research on National
     Social Protection"". This would guarantee that in 2010 the System of Monitoring
     and Evaluation would be institutionalized and operate efficiently.

4.4. Assessment of Results

     The project currently remains fully relevant to national priorities. The
     implementation of the System of M&E continues to be fundamental for the
     improvement of the management of the MPS and the progress of the Social
     Protection System. It is expected that the results of the System would be used in
     the preparation of the next Plan of National Development.              Also, the
     implementation of the system is being undertaken as part of a greater effort to
     implement SINGERIA in all sectors of public investment within the framework of
     another loan with the World Bank.


5.   Evaluation of the role of the Bank

         In the Design (satisfactory)

     With regard to the design, the Borrower does not have any suggestions for
     improvements. The support of the Bank was fundamental for the link to experts
     on the implementation of systems of this type (Ray Rist) and for organizing a
     seminar on systems of monitoring and evaluation. This activity helped motivate
     the MPS team and facilitated the discussion of the System with the DNP.

         In Supervision (highly satisfactory)

     With regard to implementation, the Borrower is totally satisfied with the support
     given by the Bank. The technical team of the Bank understood fully the objective
     of the Project and the context in which this was developed. It was an important
     support on technical aspects, while giving autonomy and space to the national
     consultants, but at the same time incorporating specialists by areas and giving
     recommendations for the improvement of the work of the sector specialists. The
     Bank also responded in a timely manner on administrative aspects thus avoiding
     any delays in contracting.     In general, the Bank accompanied and provided
     general recommendations constantly during the entire implementation period.




                                         50

6.  Lessons Learned


     The full implementation and institutionalization of the Project would requires
        a long time period, since it requires the appropriation of planning tools and the
        acquisition of new competencies on the part of the officials involved in the
        process. Although, the technical development of the Project was on the whole
        satisfactory, its institutionalization in the MPS and the Sector is an aspect that
        implies work on training, and the motivation to change which takes a longer
        time.

     A System of Monitoring and Evaluation is fundamentally an institution-
        building Project, rather than primarily activities to modernize information
        systems, to develop computational tools and software, the principal aspect
        consists of boosting the capacity of analysis and of responsiveness of the
        technical staff in the various institutions. This is achieved through the
        introduction of new instruments, such as indicators, reports, evaluations, etc.
        The emphasis of the Project should be placed on generating consensus in the
        institutions, training, and giving technical assistance to officials and ensuring
        that there is clarity on the merit of monitoring and evaluation as instruments
        for sector planning.



ENDNOTES


1.  Information System of the Ministry of Social Protection.

2.  Ten steps toward a system of results-based monitoring and evaluation, Jody Zall Kusek, Ray Rist,
    World Bank 2005.

3.  The first bulletin refers to the general framework of the Sector of Social Protection and the second
    to the occupational risk area. These bulletins are under review by the MPS prior to publication.

4.  Foundation for Higher Education and Development. See www.fedesarrollo.org




                                                 51

Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                     52

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Programa Familias en Acción: Impactos en capital humano y Evaluacion beneficio-
   cost del Programa, Evaluación de Politicas Públicas, No. 6, National Planning
   Department.
2. Analysis of the Process of Description of the Familias Program, DNP, November
   2007.
3. CONPES Document #3472, June 2007.
4. CONPES Document #102, September 2006.




                                          53

54

