Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4391 
Operation Name 
Costa Rica: Public Finance, Education and Competitiveness 
Enhancing Development Policy Credit 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General public administration sector (50%);Education (25%) 
and Competitiveness (25%) 
Project ID 
P115173
 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
December 8, 2008 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
February 24, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board Approval 
May 26, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement.  
Costa Rica is an upper middle-
income developing country of about 4.5 million people, with per capita income of US$5,900 (2007).  
Known for its stable political system, broad social base and relatively good social indicators, Costa 
Rica has recent years enjoyed one of the most impressive growth performances in the region.  This 
has, in turn, permitted improved fiscal balances and steady debt reduction. Key developmental 
challenges remain, however, including the needs for further fiscal consolidation and transparency to 
permit a better-targeted and sustained public spending on priority social sectors, raising enrollment 
and retention at the secondary school level, and boosting competitiveness in order to maximize the 
opportunities from greater integration in a global economy. These challenges have become policy 
priorities for the government. The proposed operation will support policy actions taken by the 
government to meet these policy objectives.  
 
2.  Proposed objective(s).  
The proposed operation seeks to assist the government in addressing public 
financing needs to implement actions that (i) strengthen public revenue generation capacity and 
fiscal transparency, (ii) improve secondary education attainment and (iii) enhance competitiveness to 
sustain growth. 
 It is expected to play an important role in the Government’s contingency plan to 
cover potential financing gaps in the event that the global economic and financial environment 
worsens significantly, threatening the implementation of important reforms and undermining the 
capacity to sustain key social programs. 
 
Key outcomes expected from the actions supported by the 
proposed DPL-DDO are (i) an improvement in tax revenues as a percent of GDP, (ii) an expansion 
in the number of beneficiaries of the ‘
Avancemos
”
program and a fall in the secondary drop-out rate, 
and (iii) an increase in the number of telecom operators and insurance providers competing in Costa 
Rica.
 
3.  Preliminary description.  
The proposed operation is a stand-alone, single tranche development 
policy credit with deferred draw-down option that seeks to support several key objectives of the 
Government’s National Development Plan.  It would support the Government’s objective of 
protecting key social sector interventions and competitiveness-enhancing reforms. This operation is 
fully consistent with the medium-term strategic objectives of the CPS, which are (i) to address 
emerging challenges to continued growth and competitiveness, in particular with respect to 
infrastructure shortcomings, skills gaps and excessive red tape; and (ii) to sustain and deepen recent 
gains in poverty reduction, social sector development and the environment.
 
Page  2
4.  Environment Aspects.  
The specific actions supported by the proposed operation are not likely to 
have significant effects on the environment, forests or other natural resources.  However concerns 
have been expressed regarding the potential environmental impact of the opening of the 
telecommunications sector. The Government has been proactive in addressing these risks by 
requesting an environmental assessment from the World Bank (World Bank 2008b). This assessment 
included identification of potential environmental, socioeconomic and health and safety impacts 
derived from the subprojects to be financed under the Telecommunications Sector Modernization 
project, which is being supported by the Bank (see Section IV B), a reference framework or 
environmental management plan, and an action plan to mitigate identified impacts. The 
Government’s strategy is therefore is to prioritize the sound environmental management of the 
telecommunications sector in collaboration with the Bank.
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: 
($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
500 
 Total 
500* 
 
6. Contact points 
Contacts: Ulrich Lächler  
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 305-532-3362 
Email: Ulachler@worldbank.org 
Location: Miami, FL (IBRD) 
and  
Rashmi Shankar 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel.: 202-473-4601 
Email: 
Rshankar@worldbank.org
Location: Washington, DC (IBRD) 
 
