                                               CONFORMED COPY




                                           LOAN NUMBER 7686-CR




           Loan Agreement

(Public Finance and Competitiveness Development Policy Loan
              with Deferred Drawdown Option)


                         between

              REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA

                           and


   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
              AND DEVELOPMENT




                    Dated June 11, 2009
                                                             LOAN NUMBER 7686-CR

                                 LOAN AGREEMENT

         Agreement dated June 11, 2009, entered into between REPUBLIC OF COSTA
RICA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic
policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:


             ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.


                                ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01.   The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
        referred to in this Agreement, the amount of $500,000,000 (five hundred million
        Dollars), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
        Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
        (“Loan”).

2.02.   The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
        in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
        percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
        equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that
        upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the
        interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
        shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of
        the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
        Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
                                           -2-


        continues for a period of 30 (thirty) days, then the interest payable by the
        Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the
        General Conditions.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

2.06.   (a)     Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this Section, the
                principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
                provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

        (b)     The Borrower may at the time of requesting a Withdrawal also request
                repayment provisions different from those set out in Schedule 2 to this
                Agreement for such Withdrawal, provided that: (i) the average maturity
                of such Withdrawal does not exceed 18 (eighteen) years from the
                Withdrawal Date and the final maturity of such Withdrawal does not
                exceed 30 (thirty) years from the Withdrawal Date (or such other average
                maturity and/or final maturity as may be generally applicable to loans
                made by the Bank to the Borrower at the time of such agreement); and
                (ii) such repayment provisions have been agreed between the Borrower
                and the Bank prior to the Withdrawal Date of any such Withdrawal.

2.07.   (a)     The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
                of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
                (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
                amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
                Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
                portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
                from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting
                of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
                principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the
                establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
                Variable Rate.

        (b)     Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
                is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
                in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
                provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
                Guidelines.

2.08.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
        Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information
        relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time,
        reasonably request.
                                          -3-


                            ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01.   The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
        To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

        (a)     the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
                either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the
                Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
                carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
                request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
                Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
                that has arisen that has or would have the effect of materially: (i)
                impairing the Borrower’s ability to maintain an appropriate
                macroeconomic policy framework; or (ii) reversing the objectives of the
                Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action
                specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


                   ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a
        situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
        significant part of it, will be carried out.

4.02.   The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
        event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
        period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
        the Borrower.


               ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
        in the opinion of the Bank, the Borrower has maintained an appropriate
        macroeconomic policy framework consistent with the objectives of the Program.

5.02.   The legal opinion referred to in Section 9.02 of the General Conditions shall be
        issued by the Borrower’s Attorney General (Procurador General de la
        República).
                                           -4-


5.03.   Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
        Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
        case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan
        which expire on October 29, 2010.


                ARTICLE VI— REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.

6.02.   The Borrower’s Address is:

        Ministerio de Hacienda
        Edificio Central
        Avenida 2 entre Calle 1 y 3
        Diagonal al Teatro Nacional
        San José, Costa Rica

        Facsimile:       (506) 2255-4874

6.03.   The Bank’s Address is:

        International Bank for
        Reconstruction and Development
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:           Telex:                 Facsimile:

        INTBAFRAD                248423(MCI) or         1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.          64145(MCI)
                                         -5-


AGREED at San José, Costa Rica, as of the day and year first above written.



                               REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA


                               By /s/ Guillermo Zúñiga
                                       Authorized Representative




                               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                               RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                               By /s/ Laura Frigenti
                                               Authorized Representative
                                           -6-


                                     SCHEDULE 1

                   Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I.      Actions Taken Under the Program

        The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:

A.      Rendering Public Finances More Efficient and Transparent

1.      The Borrower, through its Tax Authority, has initiated a program of legal,
        administrative and technical actions aimed at further strengthening the
        Borrower’s capabilities for tax administration by carrying out a series of strategic
        actions, including, inter alia:

        (a)     the streamlining of procedural and legal principles applicable to the
                recovery and collection of debts (including tax-related debts) with the
                intervention of specialized justice sector institutions and the introduction
                of oral procedures, through the enactment of Law N° 8624;

        (b)     the updating of procedures for the filing and processing of tax returns by
                Large Tax Payers and the issuance of guidelines for the periodic
                updating of a related tax- information base, as evidenced by Resolution
                N° DGT N° 003-2008 issued by the Tax Authority on February 21, 2008
                and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (La Gaceta) N° 61 on
                March 28, 2008;

        (c)     the approval of guidelines for the electronic filing and processing of tax
                declarations (Tributación Digital), as evidenced by Resolution N° DGT-
                20-2008 dated November 6, 2008 in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (La
                Gaceta) N° 223 on November 18, 2008; and

        (d)     the gradual implementation of the Borrower’s TICA Project in the
                Borrower’s customs posts, resulting, inter alia, in the following
                improvements: (i) the unification of customs–related databases; (ii) the
                development of a single electronic format to process export and import
                declarations; (iii) the use of internet-based custom declarations; and (iv)
                the simplification of documentation utilized to process standard
                transactions, as evidenced by the official letter (Estado de Situación del
                Sistema TICA) N° DGA-TICA-09-2009 issued by the manager of the
                TICA Project on February 16, 2009.

2.      The Borrower has taken significant steps to gradually implement a result-based
        budget management system aimed at improving the efficiency and transparency
        of public spending, including, inter alia:
                                            -7-



        (a)     the establishment of technical and methodological guidelines for the
                alignment of budget allocations with the Borrower’s development
                priorities as set forth in the DNP, as evidenced by Executive Decree N°
                34558-H-PLAN (Lineamientos Técnicos y Metodológicos para la
                Programación Estratégica Sectorial e Institucional) issued by
                MIDEPLAN and the Ministry of Finance dated May 13, 2008 and
                published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (La Gaceta) N° 115 on June
                16, 2008; and

        (b)     the establishment of technical and financial guidelines for the preparation
                of result-based budget proposals for 2009 by all government agencies, as
                evidenced by Circular N˚ DGPN-0185-2998 (Directrices Técnicas y
                Metodológicas para la Formulación del Presupuesto 2009) issued by the
                Budget Directorate dated April 21, 2008 and disseminated through the
                website:
                www.hacienda.go.cr/Msib21/Español/Dirección+General+de+Presupuesto+Nacional/.

B.      Improving Competitiveness by Removing the Secondary Education Bottleneck

        The Borrower has initiated a program of actions aimed at enhancing the quality
of education by reducing the rates of students that drop out from the Borrower’s (public)
secondary education institutions and expanding the technical capabilities of the teaching
profession, including, inter alia:

1.      The expansion of the (gross) number of eligible secondary education students
        receiving benefits under Avancemos Program from 98,050 by December 31, 2007
        to 156,909 by December 31, 2008, as evidenced by the progress reports (Oficios)
        issued by the managers of the Avancemos Program N° DE-005-2009 (Fondo
        Nacional de Becas) on January 27, 2009 and N° PE-20-01-09 (Instituto Mixto de
        Ayuda Social) on January 9, 2009.

2.      The amendment of policies governing promotion and repetition of secondary
        students, as evidenced by Decree N° 33546-MEP dated January 24, 2007 and
        published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (La Gaceta) N° 2 on January 31,
        2007 and Decree N° 34449-MEP dated March 13, 2008 and published in the
        Borrower’s Official Gazette (La Gaceta) N° 74 on April 17, 2008.

3.      The establishment of a new teacher training institute, through the enactment of
        Law N° 8697.

4.      The approval of guidelines to facilitate the participation of Costa Rican students
        in international standardized testing programs (PISA), as evidenced by
        Resolution N˚ S.E. 10-2008 (Consejo Superior de Educación) dated January 18,
        2008.
                                           -8-



C.      Improving Competitiveness by Facilitating Market-entry

        The Borrower has continued to carry out significant efforts to expand and deepen
its competitiveness, attract foreign direct investments in key economic sectors and further
benefit from international trade, by undertaking a comprehensive program of legal
reforms, including inter alia:

1.      The telecommunications sector has been enhanced by a series of reforms aimed
        at modernizing its operation, improving delivery of services, and establishing an
        effective institutional framework and regulatory regime, through the enactment
        of Law N° 8642 (including Law N° 8642 Regulations) and Law N° 8660.

2.      The insurance sector has been enhanced by a series of reforms aimed at
        modernizing its operation, improving delivery of services and creating an
        effective oversight institutional framework, through the enactment of Law N°
        8653 (including Law N° 8653 Regulations).

3.      The Borrower’s intellectual property regime has undergone a series of reforms
        aimed at meeting the Borrower’s obligations under relevant treaties and
        conventions and promoting technological innovation, through the enactment of
        Law N° 8631, Law N° 8632, Law N° 8633, Law N° 8635, Law N° 8636, Law N°
        8656 and Law N° 8686.

Section II.     Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.      General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
        with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
        may specify by notice to the Borrower.

B.      Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the
        proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account in support of the Program in
        various drawdowns of a single tranche. The category of items that may be
        financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), and the allocation of the
        amounts of the Loan to this end are set out in the table below:
                                        -9-



                                               Amount of the Tranche
                                                      Allocated
          Allocations                           (expressed in Dollars)

      Single Tranche                                  498,750,000

      Front-end Fee                                     1,250,000
      TOTAL AMOUNT                                    500,000,000

C.   Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds. If, at any time prior to the receipt by the Bank
     of a request for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank determines that a
     review of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework or of its progress in
     carrying out the Program is warranted, the Bank shall give notice to the Borrower
     to that effect. Upon the giving of such notice, no withdrawals shall be made of
     the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance unless and until the Bank has notified the
     Borrower of its satisfaction, after an exchange of views as described in
     paragraphs (a) and (b) of said Section 3.01, with: (1) the progress achieved by the
     Borrower in carrying out the Program; and (2) the appropriateness of the
     Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

D.   Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

1.   all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
     account designated by the Borrower at the Central Bank and acceptable to the
     Bank;

2.   the Borrower shall: (a) ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan
     into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget
     management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and (b) provide the
     Bank with a written confirmation within (2) two weeks of this transaction; and

3.   any transfer of any amount of the Loan from the account referred to paragraph 1
     of this Section shall be: (a) compatible with the manner in which the Borrower is,
     as of the date of this Agreement, applying its Sistema de Caja Única, pursuant to
     the provisions of Articles 66 and 67 of the Borrower's Financial Management and
     Public Budget (Law N˚ 8131) and (b) for said compatibility to be maintained, the
     Borrower must apply said regime in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

E.   Audit. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:

1.   have the account designated by the Borrower pursuant to Part D. 1 of this Section
     audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with
     consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank;
                                       - 10 -



2.   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than (6) six
     months after the end of the Borrower’s fiscal year, a certified copy of the report
     of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
     request; and

3.   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the account and its audit
     as the Bank shall reasonably request.

F.   Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
     Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
     at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
     Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
     refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
     refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.

G.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2012. The Bank may, by notice to
     the Borrower, extend said Closing Date up to (3) three more years, provided that
     the overall Program continues to be implemented in a manner satisfactory to the
     Bank and macroeconomic policies are adequate.
                                      - 11 -


                                 SCHEDULE 2

                             Amortization Schedule

1.   Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall
     repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each April
     15 and October 15, the first installment to be payable on the eleventh (11th)
     Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
     Amount and the last installment to be payable on the sixtieth (60th) Interest
     Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount.
     Each installment shall be equal to 2% of the Disbursed Amount. The last
     installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of the Disbursed
     Amount.

2.   The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each
     Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
     Amount.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 3 of this Schedule, in the
     event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to
     an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that
     is repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
     Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
     currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
     exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
     payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
     Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
     Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

4.   If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
     the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
     in each Loan Currency.
                                        - 12 -


                                     APPENDIX

Section I.     Definitions

1.      “ARESEP” means Autoridad Reguladora de los Servicios Públicos, the
        Borrower’s entity regulating the provision of public services established and
        operating pursuant to the provisions of Law N˚ 7593 enacted by the Borrower’s
        Congress on August 9, 1996 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette
        (La Gaceta) N° 169 on September 5, 1996, as amended to the date of this
        Agreement, and any successor or successors thereto.

2.      “Avancemos Program” means the Borrower’s program aimed at providing
        conditional cash transfers for adolescents established and operating under the
        purview of the Borrower’s Vice-Ministry of Social Development (as hereinafter
        defined) pursuant to the provisions of Executive Decree N° 33154-MP-
        MIDEPLAN-MEP-MTSS-MIVAH dated May 8, 2006 and published in the
        Borrower’s Official Gazette (La Gaceta) N° 96 on May 19, 2006, as amended to
        the date of this Agreement.

3.      “Budget Directorate” means Dirección General del Presupuesto Nacional, the
        Borrower’s budget directorate operating within the purview of the Ministry of
        Finance (as hereinafter defined), and any successor or successors thereto.

4.      “Central Bank” means Banco Central de Costa Rica, the Borrower’s central
        banking authority.

5.      “Congress” means Asamblea Legislativa de la República de Costa Rica, the
        Borrower’s legislative branch of government.

6.      “CONASSIF” means Consejo Nacional de Supervisión del Sistema Financiero,
        the Borrower’s council responsible for the provision of policy direction and
        oversight of the superintendencies regulating the financial sector institutions
        established and operating pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower’s Law N°
        7732 (Ley Reguladora del Mercado de Valores) dated December 17, 1997 and
        published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (La Gaceta) N˚ 18 on January 27,
        1998, as amended to the date of this Agreement.

7.      “DNP” means Plan Nacional de Desarrollo, the Borrower’s national
        development plan for the period 2006-2010 set forth in Executive Decree N°
        33608 dated January 1, 2007 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette
        (La Gaceta) N° 47 on March 7, 2007.

8.      “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:
                               - 13 -


(a)   for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
      international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
      Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
      Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
      or grant;

(b)   for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
      International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
      by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, N˚ 34/Rev.3 (1986)
      (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions
      to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:

           Group            Sub-group              Description of Item
            112                             Alcoholic beverages
            121                             Tobacco, un-manufactured,
                                            tobacco refuse
             122                            Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                            or not containing tobacco
                                            substitutes)
             525                            Radioactive and associated
                                            materials
             667                            Pearls, precious and
                                            semiprecious stones, unworked
                                            or worked
             718               718.7        Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                            thereof; fuel elements
                                            (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
                                            nuclear reactors
             728              728.43        Tobacco processing machinery
             897               897.3        Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                            platinum group metals (except
                                            watches and watch cases) and
                                            goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
                                            wares (including set gems)
             971                            Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                            gold ores and concentrates)

(c)   for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
      consumption;

(d)   for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
      which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
      agreements to which the Borrower is a party;
                                         - 14 -


      (e)     on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
              Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
              United Nations; and

      (f)     with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
              collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
              Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
              (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
              satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.

9.    “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
      Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended
      through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this
      Appendix.

10.    “Large Tax Payer” means Gran Contribuyente an individual or corporate
      taxpayer meeting the criteria defined in Article 1 of the Resolution DGT N°-003-
      2008 issued by the Tax Authority (as hereinafter defined) dated February 21,
      2008 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (La Gaceta) N° 61 on
      March 28, 2008.

11.    “Law N˚ 8624” means Ley de Cobro Judicial, the Borrower’s law establishing
      procedures for the judicial collection of fiscal debts (including tax-related debts)
      enacted by the Borrower’s Congress on October 25, 2007 and published in the
      Borrower’s Official Gazette (La Gaceta) N° 223 on November 20, 2007, as
      amended to the date of this Agreement.

12.   “Law N˚ 8631” means Ley de Protección de las Obtenciones Vegetales, the
      Borrower’s law establishing the intellectual property legal regime governing
      plant varieties enacted by the Borrower’s Congress on February 28, 2008 and
      published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (La Gaceta) N° 56 on March 19,
      2008, as amended to the date of this Agreement.

13.   “Law N˚ 8632” means Modificación de Varios Artículos de la Ley de Marcas y
      otros Signos Distintivos, the Borrower’s law amending existing legislation
      governing trademarks, patents, biodiversity and related property rights enacted
      by the Borrower’s Congress on March 25, 2008 and published in the Borrower’s
      Official Gazette (La Gaceta) N° 80 on April 25, 2008, as amended to the date of
      this Agreement.

14.   “Law N˚ 8633” means Ley de Aprobación de la Adhesion de Costa Rica al
      Tratado de Budapest sobre el Reconocimiento Internacional del Depósito de
      Microorganismos a los Fines del Procedimiento en Materia de Patentes, the
      Borrower’s law ratifying the Budapest Treaty (dated April 28, 1977 as amended
      on September 26, 1980) enacted by the Borrower’s Congress on March 24, 2008
                                      - 15 -


      and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (La Gaceta) N° 84 on May 2,
      2008, as amended to the date of this Agreement.

15.   “Law N˚ 8635” means Ley de Aprobación del Convenio Internacional para la
      Protección de Obtenciones Vegetales, the Borrower’s law ratifying the
      international convention for the protection of plant varieties enacted by the
      Borrower’s Congress on April 15, 2008 and published in the Borrower’s Official
      Gazette (La Gaceta) N˚ 83 on April 30, 2008, as amended to the date of this
      Agreement.

16.   “Law N˚ 8636” means Ley de Adhesión de Costa Rica al Tratado sobre el
      Derecho de Marcas y su Reglamento, the Borrower’s law ratifying the Treaty on
      Trademarks (dated October 27, 1994) enacted by the Borrower’s Congress on
      April 21, 2008 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (La Gaceta) N˚
      113 on June 12, 2008, as amended to the date of this Agreement.

17.   “Law N˚ 8642” means Ley General de Telecomunicaciones, the Borrower’s
      telecommunications framework law enacted by the Borrower’s Congress on May
      14, 2008 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (La Gaceta) N° 125
      on June 30, 2008, as amended to the date of this Agreement.

18.   “Law N° 8642 Regulations” means the regulatory framework enabling the
      implementation of Law N° 8642 including the following: (a) Executive Decree
      N° 34765 (Reglamento a la Ley General de Telecomunicaciones) published in
      the Borrower’s Official Gazette (La Gaceta) N° 186 on September 26, 2008; (b)
      Reglamento del Régimen de Competencia en Telecomunicaciones issued by
      ARESEP on October 6, 2008 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette
      (Alcance N° 40 a La Gaceta N° 20) on October 17, 2008; (c) Reglamento de
      Acceso Universal, Servicio universal y Solidaridad issued by ARESEP on
      October 6, 2008 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (Alcance N° 40
      a La Gaceta N° 20) on October 17, 2008; and (d) Reglamento de Acceso e
      Interconexión issued by ARESEP on October 6, 2008 and published in the
      Borrower’s Official Gazette (Alcance N° 40 a La Gaceta N° 20) on October 17,
      2008.

19.   “Law N˚ 8653” means Ley Reguladora del Mercado de Seguros, the Borrower’s
      law regulating the insurance sector enacted by the Borrower’s Congress on July
      1, 2008 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (Alcance N° 30 a La
      Gaceta N° 152) on August 7, 2008, as amended to the date of this Agreement.

20.   “Law N° 8653 Regulations” means the regulatory framework enabling the
      implementation of Law N° 8653 including the following: (a) Reglamento sobre
      Autorizaciones, Registros, y Requisitos de Funcionamiento de Entidades
      Supervisadas por la Super Intendenca de Seguros issued by CONASSIF (Acta)
      N° 744-2008 dated September 18, 2008 and published in the Borrower’s Official
                                       - 16 -


      Gazette (La Gaceta) N° 184 on September 24, 2008; and (b) Reglamento sobre la
      Solvencia de Entidades de Seguros y Reaseguros issued by CONASSIF (Acta)
      N° 744-2008 dated September 18, 2008 and published in the Borrower’s Official
      Gazette (La Gaceta) N° 184 on September 24, 2008.

21.   “Law N° 8656” means Reforma y Adicion de Varios Artículos de la Ley de
      Procedimientos de Observancia de los Derechos de Propiedad Intelectual, the
      Borrower’s law reforming the intellectual property legal regime enacted by the
      Borrower’s Congress on July 10, 2008 and published in the Borrower’s Official
      Gazette (La Gaceta) N° 154 on August 11, 2008, as amended to the date of this
      Agreement.

22.   “Law N˚ 8660” means Ley de Fortalecimiento y Modernización de las Entidades
      Públicas del Sector Telecomunicaciones, the Borrower’s law providing for the
      modernization and strengthening of the Borrower’s public entities operating
      within the telecommunications sector and the creation of a new regulatory
      authority for the sector enacted by the Borrower’s Congress on July 29, 2008 and
      published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (Alcance N° 30 a La Gaceta N°
      156) on August 13, 2008, as amended to the date of this Agreement.

23.   “Law N° 8686” means Reforma y Adición de Varias Normas que Regulan
      Materias Relacionadas con Propiedad Intelectual, the Borrower’s law amending
      various legal provisions governing intellectual property rights, enacted by the
      Borrower’s Congress on November 11, 2008 and published in the Borrower’s
      Official Gazette (La Gaceta) N° 229 on November 26, 2008, as amended to the
      date of this Agreement.

24.   “Law N° 8697” means Ley de Creación del Instituto de Desarrollo Profesional
      Uladislao Gamez Solano, the Borrower’s law establishing a teacher training
      institute under the purview of the Ministry of Education (as hereinafter defined)
      enacted by the Borrower’s Congress on December 10, 2008 and published in the
      Borrower’s Official Gazette (La Gaceta) N° 18 on November 26, 2008, as
      amended to the date of this Agreement.

25.   “MIDEPLAN” means Ministerio de Planificación Nacional y Política
      Económica, the Borrower’s Ministry of National Planning and Economic Policy,
      and any successor or successors thereto.

26.   “Ministry of Finance” means Ministerio de Hacienda, the Borrower’s Ministry
      of Finance, and any successor or successors thereto.

27.   “PISA” means Program for International Student Assessments, an international
      standardized testing system for secondary education students.
                                           - 17 -


28.     “Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
        achieve fiscal management and competitiveness reforms in the Borrower’s
        economy, so as to promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty
        and set forth or referred to in the letter dated March 16, 2009, from the Borrower
        to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s continuous commitment to the execution of
        the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program
        during its execution.

29.      “Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
        entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule
        1 to this Agreement.

30.     “Tax Authority” means Dirección General de Tributación, the Borrower’s tax
        administration directorate operating under the purview of the Ministry of
        Finance, and any successor or successors thereto.

31.     “TICA Project” means Sistema de Información para el Control Aduanero, Tic@
        the information technology project aimed at the modernization of the Borrower’s
        customs administrative and institutional framework established and operating
        pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower’s Decree N° 32456-H dated June 29,
        2005 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (La Gaceta) N° 138 on
        July 18, 2005, as amended to the date of this Agreement.

32.     “Vice-Ministry of Social Development” means Vice-Ministerio de Desarrollo
        Social, the Borrower’s Vice-Ministry of Social Development, responsible for the
        oversight of the Avancemos Program, or any successor or successors thereto.


Section II.     Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.      Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
        in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
        accordingly.

3.      Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
        Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
        Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.

4.      Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
        and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
                                      - 18 -



5.   Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
     above) is modified to read as follows:

            “Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

            …       (c)      The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
            invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
            under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
            shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.”

6.   Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
     above) is modified to read as follows:

            “Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

            …       (c)     The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
            furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
            report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
            request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
            Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
            Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”

7.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
     deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
     alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
     accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as
            follows:

            “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in
            support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
            pursuant to the Loan Agreement.”

     (b)    The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the
            Appendix are deleted in their entirety.

     (c)    The term “Fixed Spread” is modified to read as follows:

            “Fixed Spread” means, for each Withdrawal, the Bank’s fixed spread for
            the Loan Currency of the Withdrawal in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington,
            D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; provided, that: (a) for purposes of
            determining the Default Interest Rate, pursuant to Section 3.02 (d), that is
            applicable to an amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which
                                - 19 -


      interest is payable at a Fixed Rate, the “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s
      fixed spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar
      day prior to the date of the Loan Agreement, for the Currency of
      denomination of such amount; (b) for purposes of fixing the Variable
      Spread pursuant to Section 4.02, “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed
      spread for the Loan Currency in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C.
      time on the Conversion Date; and (c) upon a Currency Conversion of all
      or any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance pursuant to Section
      4.04 (a), the Fixed Spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in the
      manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines.

(d)   The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is
      modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout
      these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):

      “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
      support of which the Loan is made.”

(e)   The term “Variable Spread” is modified to read as follows:

      “Variable Spread” means, for each Withdrawal and each Interest Period:
      (1) the Bank’s standard variable spread for Loans in effect at 12:01 a.m.
      Washington, D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; (2) minus (or plus) the
      weighted average margin, for the Interest Period, below (or above)
      LIBOR, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the
      Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by it to fund
      loans that carry interest at a rate based on the Variable Spread; as
      reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
      annum. In the case of a Loan denominated in more than one Currency,
      “Variable Spread” applies separately to each of such Currencies.

(f)   A new term “Withdrawal” is added to read as follows:

      “Withdrawal” means each amount of the Loan withdrawn by the
      Borrower from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.01.

(g)   A new term “Withdrawal Date” is added to read as follows:

      “Withdrawal Date” means, for each Withdrawal, the date on which the
      Bank pays the Withdrawal.
