Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14497
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
ECUADOR
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(LOAN 3052-EC)
MAY 24, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At appraisal (March 1988) US$1 = 302 Sucres
Current (March 1995) US$1 = 2410 Sucres
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
IETEL        Instituto Ecuatoriano de Telecomunicaciones
EMETEL    Empresa Estatal de Telecomunicaciones
SENDA         Secretaria Nacional de la Administracion



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
ECUADOR
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(L3052-EC)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Note (PCN) is for the First Telecommunications
Project for which a Loan (L3052-EC) in the amount of US$45 million equivalent was made by
the World Bank, and co-financing of approximately fifteen million pounds sterling was
provided by the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC). Other parallel cofinancing
sources included Italy US$5.7 million equivalent, France US$47.2 million equivalent, Japan
US$45 million equivalent, Spain US$6.7 million equivalent, Brazil US$7.7 million equivalent
and Mexico US$8.1 million equivalent. The Borrower was Instituto Ecuatoriano de
Telecomunicaciones (IETEL), which later became Empresa Estatal de Telecomunicaciones
EMETEL Ecuador (EMETEL). The Loan was approved by the Board on May 4, 1989,
signed on September 28, 1989 and made effective on April 9, 1990.
This PCN has been prepared in lieu of a Project Completion Report, because no
disbursements took place, and the Loan was cancelled at the request of the Borrower on
January 7, 1994. It is based on internal Bank memoranda, supervision reports and interviews
with Bank staff who were associated with the Project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
ECUADOR
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(L3052-EC)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.          Telephone service in Ecuador is essential to economic development. There is a
large unmet demand for new telephone lines in the country, which has only about 5 lines per
hundred inhabitants, compared to an average of 7 lines per 100 inhabitants for Latin America
as a whole. The parallel cofinancing funds (which, with the exception of the Japanese funds,
were "tied") were used in "upstream" facilities such as telephone exchanges, and earth stations
in Guayaquil, Quito and Galapagos. Most of the US$45 million IBRD Loan 3052-EC together
with the 15 million pound sterling from CDC was to be used to complete the installation of
200,000 new telephone lines, the last component of a US$330 million telecommunications
expansion.
Project Objectives and Description
2.           The Project, the first Bank telecommunications operation in Ecuador, aimed at
alleviating the most critical sector deficiencies. Accordingly, provision was made under the
Project to: (a) improve the quality of, and access to, telecommunications services in Ecuador
through rehabilitation and expansion of the telecommunications network and replacement of
obsolete equipment; (b) strengthen IETELI EMETEL's management and organization and
increase its commercial orientation; (c) improve service to business subscribers by modernizing
and expanding international telephone, telex, and data services; (d) improve IETEL/EMETEL's
procurement practices; and (e) increase private sector participation through development and
use of private contractors for installation of cables and construction of outside plant.
Implementation
3.          The Project got off to a very slow start when SENDA, the Government agency
responsible for all public sector appointees withheld approval of the Project Administration
Unit (PAU) which had been formed by IETEL under the conditions of effectiveness. The
absence of the PAU meant little or no action could be taken on critical components of the
Loan such as procurement of the first batch (40,000) of new phone installations, the
computerization of the billing system and the "twinning" of IETEL with a modern foreign
telephone company. In the ensuing 16 months the Borrower fell into non-compliance with
other Loan covenants despite the best efforts of the Bank's supervision missions which



- 2 -
constantly stressed the need for institutional strengthening and compliance with Loan
conditions. A 60 day warning letter was issued in October 1991, but no action was taken by
the Borrower, and this was followed by a formal suspension of disbursements effective at
12:01 January 20, 1992 for non-compliance with four Loan covenants, namely:
(a)   Section 3.03 concerning the obligation to implement a new financial and
accounting system;
(b)   Section 3.07 covering the requirement to maintain a functioning Project
Administration Unit;
(c)   Section 5.01 (b) (ii) requiring that audits be delivered to the Bank on a timely
basis; and
(d)   Section 5.05 (b) regarding the revaluation of fixed assets in operation.
4.          It should be noted that the technical assistance components and the acquisition
of computers amounting to almost US$3 million were exempt from suspension.
5.          The Borrower moved to address the causes of the suspension, but the situation
became more complicated when in the final days of the regime of President Borges, on August
10, 1992 a new telecommunications law was passed which disestablished the Borrower,
IETEL, and replaced it by a new entity, EMETEL. The new law separated regulation, which
was assigned to the Superintendency of Telecommunications, from operations which was
assigned to EMETEL, with administrative, operating, economic and financial autonomy.
Nevertheless, the new law ensured that most telecommunications services would be a state
monopoly. The new Government requested that the Project continue, and that a new
component, technical assistance for privatization preparation, be included in the Project
description. At this time IETEL was making progress towards compliance with the
aforementioned covenants, so it was decided to enter into a Loan Assumption Agreement with
the new telecommunications entity, EMETEL. The Loan Assumption Agreement, Side Letter,
and Amendment to the Guarantee Agreement were signed in Washington on August 2, 1993.
6.          Unfortunately, EMETEL was unable to comply with conditions of
effectiveness, and additionally, other matters of noncompliance came into being. It also
became clear that the new Government intended to privatize or to offer in the form of long-
term concession the state telephone company. These matters led EMETEL to request that the
Loan be cancelled on January 7, 1994.
Findings and Lessons Learned
7.          This was the FIRST World Bank financed project in the Ecuadorean
telecommunications sector, and thus generated considerable staffweek input during the
Identification/Preparation/Appraisal stages. The 104 staffweeks required to bring the Project
to the Board were equal to 60% of the total Project staffweek input. IETEL's accounts were



chaotic and no auditor's report had been issued for several years. Also the tariff structure was
complex and required much study. Once the Project entered the supervision stage the average
yearly staffweek input fell to 14 weeks. (Despite the partial suspension of disbursements in
January 1992 the Bank continued to work closely with IETEL/EMETEL to help them achieve
compliance with Loan Covenants).
8.          The Project was identified and appraised, and the Loan was negotiated with a
Government which was committed to and fully supportive of the Project objectives.
Unfortunately, a new Government took power which had other priorities, and the Project
languished. In countries such as Ecuador, where regimes seldom if ever remain in power for a
second term, it is important to receive assurances of continued dedication to Bank financed
projects under way, each time there is a change of Administration.



- 4 -
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
ECUADOR
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(L3052-EC)
BASIC DATA SHEET
A.   Key Project Data
Total Project Cost (US$Million)             330.0
Loan Amount (US$Million)                     45.0
B.    Staffweek Input
FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  TOTAL
Identification/  27.7                                                          27.7
Preparation
Appraisal             59.3   10.3   6.7                                        76.3
Supervision                        12.2    10.0   18.2   16.8   17.7   5.2    70.1
01  T-O TA L  A _____ l _____ l _____  ______  ______  ______  ______  ______  __   174.10
C.   Mission Data
Stage of Project Cycle   Fiscal  No. of Persons   Total Days
Year
Identification/Preparation   1987    6                139
|Preparation/Appraisal  1988         12               296
Appraisal               1989         6                 52
Appraisal               1990         3                 33
Supervision             1990         3                 11
Supervision             1991         3                 50
Supervision             1992         4                 91
Supervision             1993         5                 84
Supervision             1994         2                 89
Supervision             1995         1                 26
TOTAL          I_       ___        _           871



-5 -
D.    Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant          Summary Description           Compliance          Remarks
L\A
3.01         The Borrower shall carry out the
project with due diligence and         S.C.
appropriate telecom practices.
3.01 (b)     The Borrower shall carry out project
in accordance with the
implementation schedule.               N.C.
3.02         Procurement of goods or services        No
shall be according to World Bank   Procurement
guidelines                           was made
3.03         The Borrower shall carry out the
institutional action plane in
accordance with the timetable set      N.C.
forth therein and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
3.04 (a)     The Borrower shall furnish the Bank
3.04 (a)     each year a satisfactory program of
tariff adjustments for the next        N.C.
calendar year to achieve the then
applicable physical and financial
performance targets.
3.04 (b)     The Borrower shall take all action
necessary for carrying out the
program so as to achieve the then  S.C. or N.C.
applicable physical and financial
performance targets referred to in
para. 3.04 (a).
3.05         The Borrower and the Bank shall
review at the request of either party,
but not less frequently than annually
until completion of the Project, the   S.C.
Borrower's performance in meeting
the Physical and Financial
Performance Targets and in carrying
out the Institutional Action Plan.
3.06         Not later than 60 days after the date
referred to in Section 7.03 of this                                   .



- 6 -
Covenant          Summary Description          Compliance          Remarks
Agreement. The Borrower shall enter
into contractual arrangements, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to  N.C.
the Bank, with an established
telecommunications company
acceptable to the Bank, for the
purposes of obtaining the assistance
of such telecommunications company
in the carrying out of Part B(a) of the
Project.
3.07         The Borrower shall issue the
necessary board of directors
resolution and implementing
regulations, and otherwise undertake    Compliance
all required corporate action,      was three
establishing and maintaining, in a  years behind
form and with functions and staffing  schedule
satisfactory to the Bank, a Project
Administration Unit having overall
responsibility for the administration of
the Project.
4.01         The Borrower shall carry on its
operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound
administrative, financial, engineering,  S.C.
telecommunications and
environmental practices under the
supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
4.03         The Borrower shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or  N.C
make other appropriate provision for,
insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
4.04         The Borrower shall no later than
December 31, 1989, carry out, or
cause to be carried out, and furnish to
the Bank, in such detail as the Bank
may reasonably request, a study



- 7 -
Covenant           Summary Description            Compliance            Remarks
reviewing all of the Borrower's
insurance needs with respect to the
Borrower's international telephone       N. C.
traffic operations and its related
infrastructure, including, without
limitation: (i) a review of the
Borrower's present insurance
coverage; (ii) an assessment of
uninsured risks to which the
Borrower is subject; (iii) a description
of the general practices of the
telecommunications industry
regarding insurance coverage; and
(iv) a cost-benefits analysis of
improving the Borrower's insurance
coverage.
5. 1 (a)      The Borrower shall maintain records
and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial    C.
condition, including separate records
and accounts to reflect the resources
and expenditures in respect of the
Project.
5.01 (b) (i)   The Borrower shall have its records,
accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements)     S.C.
and the records and accounts for the
Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
5.01 (b) (ii)   The Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than: (A) eight months
after the fiscal year ending on          S.C.
December 31, 1988; and (B) six
months after the end of each fiscal
year thereafter: (i) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year



- 8 -
Covenant           Summary Description             Compliance           Remarks
as so audited, and (ii) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall hiave reasonably requested;
5.01 (b) (iii)  The Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than three months after
the end of each fiscal year, copies of   N.C.
its unaudited financial statements for
such year, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and
5.01 (b) (iv)  The Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank such other information              N.C
concerning said records, accounts and
financial statements as well as the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
5.02 (a)     Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall earn, for
each of its fiscal years after its fiscal
year ending on December 31, 1988,        S.C.
an annual return of not less than ten
percent (10%) of the average current
net value of the Borrower's fixed
assets in operation.
5.02 (b)     The Borrower shall before September
30 in each of its fiscal years, on the
basis of forecasts prepared by the
Borrower and satisfactory to the
Bank, review whether it would meet       NC.
the requirements set forth in
paragraph (a) in respect of such year
and the next following fiscal year and
shall furnish to the Bank the results of
such review upon its completion.
5.02 (c)      If any such review shows that the
Borrower would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph
(a) for the Borrower's fiscal years      N.C.
covered by such review, the



-9 -
Covenant           Summary Description           Compliance           Remarks
Borrower shall promptly take all
necessary measures (including, but
not limited to, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its rates) in
order to meet such requirements.
5.03 (a)     Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall produce,
for each of its fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on December 31,
1988, funds from internal sources       N.C.
equivalent to not less than thirty
percent (30%) of the annual average
of the Borrower's capital
expenditures incurred, or expected to
be incurred, for that year and the next
following fiscal year.
5.03 (b)     Before September 30 in each of its
fiscal years, the Borrower shall, on
the basis of forecasts prepared by the
Borrower and satisfactory to the
Bank, review whether it would meet      N.C.
the requirements set forth in
paragraph (a) in respect of such year
and the next following fiscal year and
shall furnish to the Bank a copy of
such review upon its completion.
5.03 (c)     If any such review shows that the
Borrower would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph
(a) for the Borrower's fiscal years
covered by such review, the             N.C
Borrower shall promptly take all
necessary measures (including, but
not limited to, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its rates) in
order to meet such requirements.
5.04 (a)     Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not incur
any long-term debt, unless the net
revenues of the Borrower for the         C.
fiscal year immediately preceding the



- 10-
Covenant          Summary Description           Compliance          Remarks
date of such incurrence or for a later
twelve-month period ended prior to
the date of such incurrence,
whichever is the greater, shall be at
least 1.5 times the estimated
maximum debt service requirements
of the Borrower for any succeeding
fiscal year on all long-term debt of the
Borrower, including the long term
debt to be incurred.
5.05 (a)     No later than December 31, 1989, the
Borrower shall audit and verify all of  C.
its accounts receivable and furnish to
the Bank a report, satisfactory to the
Bank, of such audit and verification.
5.05 (b)     No later than December 31, 1989,     Revaluation
and no later than every anniversary   of fixed
thereafter, until completion of the  assets was
Project, the Borrower shall revalue all   done only
of its fixed assets in operation in  once, three
accordance with a methodology and    years behind
procedures satisfactory to the Bank,  original
and furnish to the Bank a report,    schedule
satisfactory to the Bank, of such
revaluation.
6.01 (a)     The following additional event is   IETEL was
specified as a remedy of the Bank   dissolved in
pursuant to Section 6.02 (ii) of the  August,
General Conditions: The Guarantor    1992 when
or any other authority having        loan was
jurisdiction over the Borrower shall   under
have taken any action for the        suspension
dissolution or disestablishment of the  for non
Borrower of for the suspension of its   compliance
operations.                         with clauses
3.03, 3.07,
5.0 1(b)(ii)
and 5.05(b)
7.01         The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the
effectiveness of this Agreement



- I I -
Covenant          Summary Description           Compliance          Remarks
within the meaning of Section 12.01
(c) of the General Conditions,
namely: (a) that each of the CDC
Loan Agreement, the OECF Loan
Agreement and the Italy Loan
Agreement has been authorized or        C.
ratified on behalf of the respective
parties thereto by all necessary
corporate and governmental action,
and all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of such agreements or
the right to make withdrawals
thereunder, except only the
effectiveness of this Agreement, shall
have been fulfilled; and (b) that the
Borrower shall have established the
PAU in a form and with functions
satisfactory to the Bank.
7.02         The following is specified as an
additional matter, within the meaning
of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to  C
the Bank, namely, that each of the
CDC Loan Agreement, the OECF
Loan Agreement and the Italy Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, the respective
parties thereto, and is legally binding
upon such parties in accordance with
its respective terms.
S.C.   Sporadic Compliance
N.C.   Non-Compliance
C.    Compliance
Type Your Name Here
A:\PCN.ECU
May 9, 1995 12:50 PM


















