Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3052 EC
                (First Telecommunications Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
            INSTITUTO ECUATORIANO DE TELECOMUNICACIONES
                     Dated September 28, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3052 EC
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  September  28,  1989  between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the Bank) and INSTITUTO
ECUATORIANO DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) the Republic  of  Ecuador (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described  in  Schedule  2  to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake  such  other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement;
     (C)  the Borrower intends  to  contract from the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (the  CDC)  a  loan  (the  CDC Loan) in an
amount equivalent to approximately fifteen million pounds sterling
(Ä15,000,000), to assist in financing  part  of the Project on the
Page  2
terms and conditions  set  forth  in  an  agreement  (the CDC Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and CDC;
     (D)  the Borrower has  requested  from  the Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund of Japan  a  loan  (the  OECF  Loan) in an amount
equivalent   to   approximately   forty   five   million   dollars
($45,000,000), to assist in financing  part  of the Project on the
terms and conditions  set  forth  in  an  agreement (the OECF Loan
Agreement)  to  be  entered  into  between  the  Borrower  and the
Government of Japan;
     (E)  the Borrower has requested  from the Government of Italy
a loan (the Italy Loan)  in  an amount equivalent to approximately
six million dollars ($6,000,000),  to  assist in financing part of
the Project on the terms and  conditions set forth in an agreement
(the Italy Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Government of Italy;
     (F)  the Borrower has  requested  from the respective Govern-
ments of France, Brazil, Mexico  and Spain (collectively the Other
Sources) additional loans  in  an  aggregate  amount equivalent to
approximately thirty nine  million  five  hundred thousand dollars
($39,500,000) (the Other Loans),  to  assist  in financing part of
the Project on  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth in various
agreements (collectively,  the  Other  Agreements)  to  be entered
into, respectively, between  the  Borrower  and  each of the Other
Sources; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Physical and Financial  Performance  Targets" means the
performance indicators for the  Borrower  furnished to the Bank by
letter of even date herewith;
     (c)  "Co-Financing  Loans"  means,  individually  and collec-
tively, the CDC Loan, the OECF  Loan, the Italy Loan and the Other
Loans;
     (d)  "Co-Financing   Agreements"   means,   individually  and
collectively, the CDC Loan Agreement, the OECF Loan Agreement, the
Italy Loan Agreement and the Other Agreements;
     (e)  "Institutional Action Plan"  means  the  action plan for
the  Borrower  furnished  to  the  Bank  by  letter  of  even date
herewith;
     (f)  "Implementation Schedule"  means  the  schedule  for the
implementation of the Project  by  the  Borrower, furnished to the
Bank by letter of even date herewith; and
Page  3
     (g)  "PAU" means the  Project  Administration Unit establised
by the Borrower  to  administer  the  Project,  and referred to in
Sections 3.07 and 7.01 (a) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank  agrees  to  lend  to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set  forth  or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent to forty-five
million dollars ($45,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars  a  special account in a bank accept-
able to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  5 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate for  each  Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of  the  preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section  2.06  of  this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest  accrued  on  the  principal amount outstanding
during the  preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Borrower  and the Guarantor of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  a  six-month period ending
               on  the  date   immediately   preceding  each  date
               specified  in  Section   2.06  of  this  Agreement,
               beginning with the  Interest  Period  in which this
               Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means the cost, as
               reasonably determined by the  Bank and expressed as
               a  percentage   per   annum,   of  the  outstanding
               borrowings of the  Bank  drawn  down after June 30,
               1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof
               as the Bank has  allocated  to fund: (A) the Bank's
               investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the
               Bank after  July  1,  1989  bearing  interest rates
               determined otherwise than  as provided in paragraph
               (a) of this Section.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
Page  4
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower,  paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii)
of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
               "(a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on  the
          principal amount of the  Loan withdrawn and outstanding
          from time to time, at a  rate for each Quarter equal to
          the Cost of Qualified  Borrowings determined in respect
          of the preceding Quarter,  plus one-half of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%). On each  of the dates specified in Section
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal  amount outstanding during the
          preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
               "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower and the
          Guarantor  of   the   Cost   of   Qualified  Borrowings
          determined in respect of such Quarter."
               "(c)  (iii) `Quarter'  means  a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April  1,  July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
     (e)  Notwithstanding the provisions of  paragraph (a) of this
Section, the interest rate  for  the Interest Period commencing in
the first Semester  of  1989  shall  be  seven and sixty-five hun-
dredths percent (7.65%).
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
financial,  administrative,  engineering,  telecommunications  and
environmental practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services  and  other resources required for
the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and  except  as  the  Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Schedule.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and  to  be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed  by  the  provisions  of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  shall carry out the Institutional
Action Plan in accordance with the timetable set forth therein and
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 3.04. (a) No  later  than  September  30 of each year
until completion of  the  Project,  the  Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank a program,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank, setting forth in
reasonable detail measures  and  policies, including, if necessary
or appropriate, tariff  adjustments,  which  shall  be carried out
during the  next  succeeding  calendar  year,  for  the purpose of
achieving the then  applicable  Physical and Financial Performance
Page  5
Targets.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  take  all  action  necessary for the
carrying out of the program  referred  to in paragraph (a) of this
Section so as to achieve,  in  a  manner satisfactory to the Bank,
the then applicable  Physical  and  Financial Performance Targets,
also referred to in said paragraph (a).
     (c)  Until completion  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank  the  following  periodic reports covering, in
reasonable  detail,  its  progress  in  meeting  the  Physical and
Financial Performance Targets:
          (i)  no later than March  30  of  each year, a report on
               both  the   Physical   and   Financial  Performance
               Targets,   covering   the   immediately   preceding
               calendar year; and
         (ii)  no later than June 30, September 30 and December 31
               of each year,  a  report  with  respect to only the
               non-financial  components   of   the  Physical  and
               Financial   Performance   Targets,   covering   the
               calendar   quarter   ending   on   the  immediately
               preceding March 31, June 30 and September 30.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower  and  the  Bank shall, starting on
September 30, 1989, review at the request of either party, but not
less frequently than annually until completion of the Project, the
Borrower's  performance  in  meeting  the  Physical  and Financial
Performance Targets and in  carrying  out the Institutional Action
Plan.
     Section 3.06. No later  than  sixty  (60) days after the date
referred to in Section 7.03  of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
enter into contractual  arrangements,  under  terms and conditions
satisfactory to the  Bank,  with an established telecommunications
company acceptable to the Bank,  for the purposes of obtaining the
assistance of such telecommunications  company in the carrying out
of Part B(a) of the Project.
     Section  3.07.  The  Borrower  shall,  for  the  purposes  of
carrying out the Project,  issue  the necessary board of directors
resolution and implementing  regulations,  and otherwise undertake
all required corporate action,  establishing and maintaining, in a
form and with functions and  staffing  satisfactory to the Bank, a
Project Administration Unit having  overall responsibility for the
administration of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall  carry on its operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial,  engineering,   telecommunications   and  environmental
practices  under  the  supervision  of  qualified  and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 4.02. The  Borrower  shall  at  all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery,  equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly  as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof,  all  in  accordance with sound engineering,
financial and telecomunications practices.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower  shall  take out and maintain with
responsible insurers,  or  make  other  appropriate provision for,
insurance against such  risks  and  in  such  amounts  as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 4.04. No later  than  December 31, 1989, the Borrower
shall carry out, or cause  to  be  carried out, and furnish to the
Bank, in such detail as  the  Bank may reasonably request, a study
Page  6
reviewing all of the  Borrower's  insurance  needs with respect to
the Borrower's international telephone  traffic operations and its
related  infrastructure,  including,  without  limitation:  (i)  a
review of  the  Borrower's  present  insurance  coverage;  (ii) an
assessment of uninsured risks  to  which  the Borrower is subject;
(iii) a description of the general practices of the telecommunica-
tions industry  regarding  insurance  coverage;  and  (iv) a cost-
benefits analysis of improving the Borrower's insurance coverage.
                             ARTICLE V
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 5.01. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices  its  operations   and  financial  condition,  including
separate  records  and  accounts  to  reflect  the  resources  and
expenditures in respect of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   and   the  records  and
               accounts for the  Special  Account  for each fiscal
               year  audited,   in   accordance  with  appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not  later  than:  (A)  eight months after
               the fiscal year  ending  on  December 31, 1988; and
               (B) six months after  the  end  of each fiscal year
               thereafter: (i) certified  copies  of its financial
               statements for such  year  as  so audited, and (ii)
               the report of such audit  by said auditors, of such
               scope and in  such  detail  as  the Bank shall have
               reasonably requested;
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than  three months after the end
               of  each  fiscal  year,  copies  of  its  unaudited
               financial statements for  such  year, of such scope
               and in such detail  as  the Bank shall have reason-
               ably requested; and
         (iv)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said records, accounts and financial state-
               ments as well  as  the  audit  thereof  as the Bank
               shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section,  records  and   accounts  reflecting  such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
Page  7
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 5.02. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall earn, for  each  of  its fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on December  31,  1988, an annual return of not
less than ten percent (10%)  of  the  average current net value of
the Borrower's fixed assets in operation.
     (b)  Before September 30  in  each  of  its fiscal years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower
and satisfactory to the  Bank,  review  whether  it would meet the
requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a)  in respect of such year
and the next following fiscal  year  and shall furnish to the Bank
the results of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such  review  shows  that  the Borrower would not
meet the requirements  set  forth  in  paragraph  (a) for the Bor-
rower's fiscal years covered  by  such  review, the Borrower shall
promptly take all necessary  measures  (including, but not limited
to, adjustments of the structure or  levels of its rates) in order
to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The annual return  shall  be calculated by dividing
               the Borrower's net operating  income for the fiscal
               year in question  by  one  half  of  the sum of the
               current net value of the Borrower's fixed assets in
               operation at the beginning  and  at the end of that
               fiscal year.
         (ii)  The term "net operating income" means total operat-
               ing revenues less total operating expenses.
        (iii)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources related to operations.
         (iv)  The  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses related to  operations, including adminis-
               tration, adequate  maintenance,  and  provision for
               depreciation on a straight-line  basis at a rate of
               not less than five  percent  (5%)  per annum of the
               average current gross value of the Borrower's fixed
               assets in operation,  or  other basis acceptable to
               the Bank, but excluding  interest and other charges
               on debt.
          (v)  The average current  gross  value of the Borrower's
               fixed assets in  operation  shall  be calculated as
               one-half of  the  sum  of  the  gross  value of the
               Borrower's fixed assets in  operation at the begin-
               ning and at the end  of  the fiscal year, as valued
               from time to time in accordance with the provisions
               of paragraph (b) of Section 5.05 of this Agreement.
         (vi)  The term "current net value of the Borrower's fixed
               assets in operation" means  the  gross value of the
               Borrower's  fixed  assets  in  operation  less  the
               amount of accumulated  depreciation, as valued from
               time to  time  in  accordance  with  sound and con-
               sistently maintained  methods  of  valuation satis-
               factory to the Bank.
     Section 5.03. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall produce, for each of its fiscal years after its
fiscal year  ending  on  December  31,  1988,  funds from internal
sources equivalent to not  less  than  thirty percent (30%) of the
Page  8
annual average of the Borrower's capital expenditures incurred, or
expected to be  incurred,  for  that  year  and the next following
fiscal year.
     (b)  Before September 30  in  each  of  its fiscal years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower
and satisfactory to the  Bank,  review  whether  it would meet the
requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a)  in respect of such year
and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank a
copy of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such  review  shows  that  the Borrower would not
meet the requirements  set  forth  in  paragraph  (a) for the Bor-
rower's fiscal years covered  by  such  review, the Borrower shall
promptly take all necessary  measures  (including, but not limited
to, adjustments of the structure or  levels of its rates) in order
to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "funds  from  internal  sources" means the
               difference between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to operations, consumer  deposits and consumer
                    contributions in aid of construction, net non-
                    operating income and  any reduction in working
                    capital other than cash; and
               (B)  the sum of all expenses related to operations,
                    including administration, adequate maintenance
                    (excluding  provision   for  depreciation  and
                    other   non-cash   operating   charges),  debt
                    service requirements,  all  cash dividends and
                    other cash distributions  of surplus, increase
                    in working capital  other  than cash and other
                    cash outflows other than capital expenditures.
         (ii)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses  incurred   in   the   generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
        (iii)  The term "working  capital  other  than cash" means
               the  difference  between  current  assets excluding
               cash and current  liabilities  at  the  end of each
               fiscal year.
         (iv)  The term "current assets  excluding cash" means all
               assets other than cash  which could in the ordinary
               course of business  be  converted  into cash within
               twelve  months,   including   accounts  receivable,
               marketable  securities,   inventories  and  prepaid
               expenses properly chargeable  to operating expenses
               within the next fiscal year.
          (v)  The term "current  liabilities"  means all liabili-
               ties which will  become  due  and  payable or could
               under circumstances  then  existing  be  called for
               payment within  twelve  months,  including accounts
               payable, customer  advances,  debt service require-
               ments, taxes and  payments  in  lieu  of taxes, and
               dividends.
         (vi)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
Page  9
        (vii)  The term "capital  expenditures" means all expendi-
               tures incurred on account  of fixed assets, includ-
               ing interest  charged  to  construction, related to
               operations.
       (viii)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Guarantor,  debt  payable  in another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 5.04. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not  incur  any  long-term debt, unless the net
revenues of the Borrower for the fiscal year immediately preceding
the date of such  incurrence  or  for  a later twelve-month period
ended prior to  the  date  of  such  incurrence,  whichever is the
greater, shall be at  least  1.5  times the estimated maximum debt
service requirements of  the  Borrower  for  any succeeding fiscal
year on all long-term  debt  of  the Borrower, including the long-
term debt to be incurred.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  the  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to operations adjusted to  take account of the
                    Borrower's rates in effect  at the time of the
                    incurrence of debt  even  though they were not
                    in effect  during  the  twelve-month period to
                    which  such  revenues  related  and  net  non-
                    operating income; and
               (B)  expenses  related   to  operations,  including
                    administration,  adequate  maintenance,  taxes
                    and payments in  lieu  of taxes, but excluding
                    provision  for  depreciation,  other  non-cash
                    operating  charges  and   interest  and  other
                    charges on debt;
         (ii)  "non-operating   income"   means   the   difference
               between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
        (iii)  the  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               funds payments, if any)  of, and interest and other
               charges on, long-term debt; and
         (iv)  whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Guarantor,  debt  payable  in another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 5.05.  (a)  No  later  than  December  31,  1989, the
Page  10
Borrower shall audit and verify all of its accounts receivable and
furnish to the Bank a  report,  satisfactory  to the Bank, of such
audit and verification.
     (b)  No later than December 31, 1989, and no later than every
anniversary  thereafter,  until  completion  of  the  Project, the
Borrower shall revalue all  of  its  fixed  assets in operation in
accordance with a methodology  and  procedures satisfactory to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank  a report, satisfactory to the Bank,
of such revaluation.
     (c)  For the purposes  of  this  Section,  the term "accounts
receivable" means all amounts due  the Borrower, but for which the
Borrower has  not  received  payment  therefor,  arising  from the
Borrower's day-to-day  operations  in  the  normal  course  of its
business and recorded in the Borrower's accounts on December 31 of
the preceding fiscal year, but excluding provision for bad debts.
                            ARTICLE VI
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 6.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
over the Borrower shall have  taken any action for the dissolution
or disestablishment of the Borrower  or  for the suspension of its
operations;
     (b)  any or all of the  Other Agreements shall have failed to
become effective or  meet  the  conditions  for making withdrawals
thereunder by June 30, 1990,  or  such  later date as the Bank may
agree; provided, however,  that  the  provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that adequate funds for  the Project are available to the
Borrower from other  sources  on  terms  and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement;
     (c)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of any  of  the Co-Financing Loans or
                    any other loans or grants made to the Borrower
                    for the financing  of  the  Project shall have
                    been suspended,  cancelled,  or  terminated in
                    whole or in  part,  pursuant, respectively, to
                    the  terms   of   any   of   the  Co-Financing
                    Agreements; or
               (B)  any such Co-Financing  Loan  or any other such
                    loan  or  grant  made   to  the  Borrower  for
                    financing of the Project shall have become due
                    and  payable  prior  to  the  agreed  maturity
                    thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Bank that:  (A)  such suspension, cancellation,
               termination  or  acceleration  of  maturity  is not
               caused by the  failure  of  the Borrower to perform
               any of its  obligations  under  such agreement; and
               (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
               the  Borrower  from  other  sources  on  terms  and
               conditions consistent with  the  obligations of the
               Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (b) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
Page  11
sixty (60) days after notice thereof  shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower;
     (b)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  any event  specified  in  subparagraph  (c)  (i)  (B) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of subparagraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VII
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 7.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to  the  effectiveness  of this Agreement within
the meaning  of  Section  12.01  (c)  of  the  General Conditions,
namely: (a) that each  of  the  CDC  Loan Agreement, the OECF Loan
Agreement and the  Italy  Loan  Agreement  has  been authorized or
ratified on  behalf  of  the  respective  parties  thereto  by all
necessary corporate and  governmental  action,  and all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of  such agreements or the right to
make withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of this
Agreement, shall have been  fulfilled;  and  (b) that the Borrower
shall have  established  the  PAU  in  a  form  and with functions
satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 7.02. The  following  is  specified  as an additional
matter, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02  (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely,  that  each  of the CDC Loan Agree-
ment, the OECF Loan  Agreement  and  the  Italy Loan Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the respective parties  thereto, and is legally binding
upon such parties in accordance with its respective terms.
     Section  7.03.  The  date  of  December  28,  1989  is hereby
specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  12.04  of  the General
Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VIII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 8.01. The  General  Manager  of the Borrower (Gerente
General del IETEL) is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 8.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Instituto Ecuatoriano de Telecomunicaciones
          6 de Diciembre y Colán
          Edif. "El Partenán"
          Quito, Ecuador
Page  12
                                              Telex:
                                                 2202
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                            Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                    INSTITUTO ECUATORIANO DE TELECOMUNICACIONES
                    By /s/ Jaime Moncayo
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Goods:
      (i)  cables and           26,250,000 )
           associated                      )
           materials                       )
                                           )
                                           )
     (ii)  Traffic                 900,000 )    100% of foreign
           and test                        )    expenditures;
           equipment                       )    100% of local
                                           )    expenditures (ex-
                                           )    factory cost) and
    (iii)  Computers             1,250,000 )    50% of local
                                           )    expenditures for
                                           )    other items pro-
     (iv)  Miscellaneous,          750,000 )    cured locally
           including
           vehicles
           and tools
(2)  Works:
         Cables related          9,550,000      100% of foreign
         construction                           expenditures and
                                                50% of local
                                                expenditures
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
Page  13
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3)  Technical Assistance:
      (i)  Fees of training        650,000      100%
           institution
           contracted
           pursuant to
           Section 3.06 of
           this Agreement
           for activities
           under Part B (a)
           of the Project
     (ii)  Consultants in          750,000      100% of foreign
           respect of works                     expenditures
           under Part A
           of the Project
           and for management
           improvement under
           Parts B (b) and (d)
           of the Project
    (iii)  Project Adminis-        200,000      100%
           trataion Unit
           costs
(4)  Unallocated                 4,700,000
                                __________
     TOTAL                      45,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made  in  respect  of:  (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) payments
made for  expenditure  under  Category  (1),  unless  the Bank has
received evidence satisfactory to it that the contractual arrange-
ments for the hiring of all consultants financed under the Project
have been entered into.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of  an  amount  of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, the disbursement percentages  for  Category (3) (iii) shall
be reduced to: (a) 80%  once the aggregate amount of disbursements
made  under  such  Category  shall  have  reached  the  amount  of
$150,000; and (b) 50%  once  the aggregate amount of disbursements
made  under  such  Category  shall  have  reached  the  amount  of
$180,000.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve the quality
of and access  to  telecommunications  services in Ecuador through
rehabilitation and expansion of the telecommunications network and
replacement of obsolete  equipment;  (b) strengthen the Borrower's
management and  organization,  improve  its procurement practices,
and increase its  commercial  orientation;  (c) improve service to
the Borrower's business  subscribers  by modernizing and expanding
Page  14
international telephone, telex and data services; and (d) increase
private  sector  participation  through  development  and  use  of
private contractors.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Investment Program
     (a)  Expansion of local telephone services by the addition of
          about 189,350  lines  of  local  exchange equipment with
          associated cables to make about 189,000 connections;
     (b)  rehabilitation of  the  cable  network  in  Guayaquil to
          improve service to about 50,000 existing subscribers;
     (c)  expansion of  the  long  distance  network  by:  (i) the
          addition of five new transit exchanges, and expansion of
          existing transit exchanges  and associated interexchange
          routes and reorganization  of  the network for efficient
          traffic  handling;  and  (ii)   expansion  of  the  long
          distance  network  through  the  installation  of  a new
          digital microwave network;
     (d)  extension of telephone  service  to rural communities in
          territory of the Guarantor  by:  (i) the installation of
          the 76 new exchanges in  rural areas; and (ii) provision
          of  service  to  isolated  areas  (e.g.,  the  Gal≈pagos
          islands)  by  the  installation  of  12  domestic  earth
          stations;
     (e)  installation of a  new  international telephone exchange
          with capacity of about 1,500 terminations in Quito and a
          new satellite earth station at Guayaquil;
     (f)  extension of data services; and
     (g)  installation of a cellular telephone service.
Part B:   Institutional Improvement
     (a)  Provision  of  technical  assistance,  pursuant  to  the
          contractual arrangements referred to  in Section 3.06 of
          this Agreement, to develop the Borrower's administration
          to improve the  performance  of  key technical and mana-
          gerial staff,  increase  commercial orientation, streng-
          then the  in-house  training  program  and sensitize the
          Borrower  to  internal  and  external  factors affecting
          operational efficiency;
     (b)  carrying  out  of  a  customized  management development
          program  for  managers  with  the  assistance  of  local
          management consultants;
     (c)  strengthening  project  implementation  capacity through
          technical assistance in  the  preparation and evaluation
          of bid documents,  negotiation of contracts, administra-
          tion of installation  schedules, inspection of materials
          and performance of acceptance tests;
     (d)  improving the operation and  maintenance of the telecom-
          munications  system  through   training   of  staff  and
          establishing  better  systems   and  procedures  in  the
          regions; and
     (e)  execution  of  a  management  information  system  plan,
          including installation and utilization of computers.
                        *     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 1995.
Page  15
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
     beginning December 15, 1994
     through June 15, 2006                            1,875,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest  rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per  annum)  applicable
                                           to  the   balance  out-
                                           standing on the Loan on
                                           the  day  of prepayment
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.88
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years                                   1.00
     before maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Goods and works shall be  procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with  procedures  consistent  with  those  set forth in
Sections I and II  of  the  "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits"  published  by  the  Bank  in May 1985 (the
Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof,  goods  manufactured in Ecuador may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Page  16
Part C:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 5.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such  consultants  shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  the  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank  in  August  1981. Notwithstanding the fore-
going, the services referred to in Part B (a) of the Project shall
be procured through direct  contracting  in accordance with proce-
dures satisfactory to the Bank.
Section III.  Special Provisions
A.   In addition to and without limitation of any other provisions
set forth in  this  Schedule  4  or  the Guidelines, the following
principles of procurement  shall  expressly govern all procurement
of goods and works referred to in Section I of this Schedule:
1.   Bids for contract awards  must  be permitted to be submitted,
at the risk of the bidder, by mail.
2.   Bids for contract  awards  must  be  submitted  in one single
envelope, and the name of each bidder and the total amount of each
bid, as well  as  any  alternative  proposals,  if  they have been
requested or permitted, shall be read aloud when opened.
3.   Foreign bidders must not be  required  to have a local repre-
sentative for purposes  of  submitting  bids,  and, after the sub-
mission of bids, may  be  required  to have a local representative
only on a case-by-case basis in light of the circumstances of each
contract.
4.   Foreign bidders must  be  permitted  to  have their financial
solvency certified by a  foreign  bank without re-certification by
any Ecuadorian bank or other Ecuadorian person or entity.
Page  17
5.   Bid and performance  bonds  and  guarantees issued by foreign
sureties approved by the  Borrower  must be admissible without re-
certification or other  participation  by  any  Ecuadorian bank or
other Ecuadorian person or entity.
6.   Contracts must be awarded  to  the lowest evaluated bidder in
accordance with criteria set forth in the bidding documents.
7.   Price adjustment clauses must be  permitted to be included in
all major contracts lasting more than one year.
8.   Letters of credit issued to any supplier of goods or provider
of services must not be  required to be counter-guaranteed by such
supplier or provider in whole or in part.
B.   In addition to and without limitation of any other provisions
set forth in this  Schedule  4  or  the  Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants referred  to  in  Section  II  of  this  Schedule, the
following principles  of  procurement  shall  expressly govern all
procurement of consultants' services referred  to in Section II of
this Schedule:
1.   Foreign  consultants  must  not  be  required  to  be locally
registered or  associated  with  local  firms  as  a  condition of
bidding and, at the time of  contracting, may be required to be so
registered or associated only on  a case-by-base basis in light of
the circumstances of each such contract.
2.   Foreign consultants must not  be required, either directly or
indirectly, to give any participation  in or share of any consult-
ing contract to any  local  firm  or  person, except in connection
with a joint venture arrangement where: (i) a sufficient number of
capable domestic firms exist to allow a foreign consultant reason-
able freedom of choice; (ii)  the  contribution of either party to
the joint  venture  arrangement  will  not  be  constrained by any
prescribed  manner  or  extent  of  participation;  and  (iii) the
foreign consultant is not  required  to  associate itself with any
specific named domestic firms.
3.   Foreign consultants, including any  foreign staff employed by
them, must  be  exempted  from  all  requirements,  other than the
requirement to hold a  valid  visa,  established in the Borrower's
Ley de Extranjeróa,  Ley  de  Migracián,  Reglamento  a  la Ley de
Extranjeróa and Reglamento a la Ley de Migracián.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in  the  table  in  paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  Eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $3,800,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
Page  18
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the
               Borrower shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
               deposits into the Special Account at such intervals
               as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the  time  of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
               of this Schedule  for  the  payment  or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
               basis of  each  such  request,  the  Bank shall, on
               behalf of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the Loan
               Account and deposit  into  the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower  shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown  by  said documents and other
               evidence to  have  been  made  out  of  the Special
               Account  for   Eligible   Expenditures.   All  such
               deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the
               Loan Account  under  the  respective Eligible Cate-
               gories, and in  the  respective equivalent amounts,
               as shall have been  justified by said documents and
               other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such   payment   was  made  for  Eligible
Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the Eligible  Categories,  less  the  amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into  by  the  Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions  with respect to the Project, shall
be equal to the equivalent  of  twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
     Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of  the  Loan  allocated  to the Eligible Cate-
gories shall follow such procedures  as  the Bank shall specify by
notice to the  Borrower.  Such  further  withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in an amount not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii) was not  justified  by the evidence furnished to
Page  19
the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provided such additional evidence  as the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the  Special  Account  (or,  if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise  agree,  no further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  Eligible  Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant  to paragraph 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
