Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE COPY
Report No. P-3760-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPME'
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$59.1 MILLION
TO THE
ELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
SECOND MAE MOH LIGNITE PROJECT
March 27, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit    =    Thai baht (B)
$1.00            =    B 23.05
B 1.00           -    $0.0434
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1- Septembetr 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASU:RES
(metric system)
1 bank cubic meter (bm3)                =  1.31 bank cubic yards (byd3)
1 kilogram (kg)                         =  2.20 pounds (lb)
1 tonne                                 =  1,000 kg = 1.1 short tons (st)
1 kilocalorie (kcal)                    =  3.97 British thermal units (BTU)
1 kilocalorie per kilogram (kcal/kg)   =  1.81 (BTU/lb).
1 ton of oil equivalent (toe)           =  10.415 x 106 kcal
1 kilowatt (kW)                         =  1,000 watts (W)
1 Megawatt (MW)                         =  1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)                   =  1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADAB       =    Australian Development Assistance Bureau
ADB        =    Asian Development Bank
DMR        =    Department of Mineral Resources
EGAT       =    Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
KfW        =    Kreditanstalt f fr Wiederaufbau (F.R. Germany)
MEA        =    Metropolitan Electricity Authority
NEA        =    National Energy Administration
NESDB      =    National Economic and Social Development Board
PEA        =    Provincial Electricity Authority
PTT        =    Petroleum Authority of Thailand
RC         =    Rheinbraun Consulting GmbH (F.R. Germany)
tcf        =    trillion cubic feet
tpy        =    tonne per year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TIAILAND
SECOND MAE MOH LIGNITE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT)
Guarantor:       Kingdom of Thailand
Loan Amount:    $59.1 million equivaLlent, including capitalized front-end fee
of $0.1 million.
Terms:           20 years, including five years grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
Project
Description:    The proposed project is a second-stage expansion of the Mae
Moh open-pit lignite mine to increase production capacity from
2.8 to about 5.0 million tonnes per year. The roject forms
part of a long-term national development strategy to develop
indigenous energy resources to reduce dependence on oil
imports. The proposed expansion in lignite production is
needed to increase lignite-fired power generation at Mae Moh
from 375 MW to 825 MW.
The proposed project would reinforce economic pricing policies
for lignite (studied under the earlier lignite project) to
ensure that planned lignite expansions are economically and
financially justified, and that EGAT's lignite mining opera-
tions are viable. It would further strengthen the operations
both technically anad financially through technical assistance,
and assist in minimizing adverse environmental effects of the
mine.
The project scope includes the engineering, procurement and
erection of mining and related equipment (mainly conveyor
belts, semi-mobile, crushers, off-highway trucks, and auxiliary
equipment), technical assistance, training and civil works.
Risks:           There is relatively little risk associated with the proposed
project. Lignite reserves are measured and are ample. Demand
for lignite as a iuel for electricity generation is virtually
assured in light of the projected demand for electricity and
lower cost of domestic lignite for electricity generation than
imported coal. Potential environmental hazards to air, water,
and land have been handled through an environmental control
program initiated under the first Bank loan (1852-TH, 1980)
for development of the Mae Moh mine and to be continued under
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
the proposed loan. There is some risk in implementation plans
associated with the large seven-year contract which EGAT has
let for overburden removal work under the project. Bank
review and approval of the overburden contract, close monitor-
ing of the project, and technical assistance and training
which would strengthen EGAT staff capability to take over the
contract work, if necessary, should minimize this risk.
Estimated Cost:                           Local           Foreign         Total
…($ million equivalent) -…-
Mining equipment                        28.8              67.8          96.6
Land, civil works, pre-stripping,
others                                49.5             35.0          84.5
Engineering and training                 0.6               6.1           6.7
Base Cost                             78.9            108.9         187.8
Contingencies
Physical                               6.2              7.2          13.4
Price                                 12.1             18.5          30.6
Total Installed Cost                  97.2 .1/        134.6         231.8
Interest During Construction
and Front-End Fee                       -              18.0          18.0
Total Financing Required              97.2            152.6         249.8
Financing Plan:                                 Total                  %
($ million equivalent)
Equity
Government                                 14.4                   5.7
EGAT                                      145.3 b/               58.2
ADAB                                        4.2                   1.7
163.9                 65.6
Debt
IBRD                                       59I.1                 23.7
KfW                                        16.8                   6.7
Other (commercial/export credits)          10.0 b/                4.0
85.9                 34.4
Total Financing                           249.8                 100.0



Estimated Disbursements
from Bank Loan:               Bank FY   1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
------ ($ million equivalent) ------
Annual                                 0.2      7.6    25.6    23.8      1.9
Cumulative                             0.2      7.8    33.4    57.2    59.1
Rate of Return: 14%
Staff Appraisal Report: Report 4799-TH, dated March 23, 1984
IBRD Map No. 14430R1
a/ Including taxes and duties of about $27.2 million.
b/ A possible B Loan of up to $50 million under consideration.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
ELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
FOR A SECOND MAE MOH LIGNITE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT) with the guarantee
of the Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of $59.1 million, including
capitalized front-end fee, to help finance the Second Mae Moh Lignite Proj-
ect. The loan would have a term. of 20 years, including five years grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Coping with Structural Change in a
Dynamic Economy" (Report No. 3067-TH) was issued on December 23, 1980. It
proposed a medium-term strategy to deal with the adjustment problems resulting
from the two oil price shocks of the 1970s. Subsequently, the Royal Thai
Government initiated a program of structural adjustment policies, which the
World Bank supported by two structural adjustment loans. An economic report
entitled "Managing Public Resources for Structural Adjustment" (Report
No. 4366-TH) was discussed with the Government in May 1983 and issued on
August 31, 1983. It reviewed progress in the implementation of structural
adjustment policies and proposed directions for further action, especially in
regard to the mobilization and management of public resources.
Recent Political Developments
3.        Since the early 1970s, the political process in Thailand has broad-
ened and matured significantly. Initially, this was accompanied by frequent
and sometimes abrupt changes in government leadership. Since the 1977 general
elections, however, Thailand has enjoyed a period of greater political stabil-
ity and continuity of policy. Cabinet shuffles have continued to take place,
reflecting shifts in the makeup of the coalitions of political parties, mili-
tary and business leaders, and technocrats, which have governed the country
for the past five years. However, only one change in Prime Minister has
occurred during this period. General Prem Tinsulanonda was appointed as Prime
Minister in March 1980 and has been euccessful in mobilizing support for a
major program of economic structural adjustment, embodied in the Fifth Five-
Year Plan, 1982-86. Senior civil servants supporting this program were given
key positions in the public sector. Although there are continuing internal
debates on the details and speed of policy implementation, overall, a broad
public consensus on national policy priorities has been maintained.
4.        National elections were held again on April 18, 1983, in which can-
didates from ten parties were elected to Parliament. No party secured an
outright majority, but Prime Minister Prem succeeded in forming a new four-
party coalition which includes two of the three leading parties and has the
backing of approximately two-thirds of the elected representatives. As part



-2 -
of a gradual constitutional reform aiming at increased representative
government, transitional arrangements had been in place for a five-year period
to permit serving military, civilian and other non-elected officials to con-
tinue to play a stabilizing role in both the legislative and executive
branches of government through their appointment to the powerful senate and to
Cabinet posts. These transitional arrangements were allowed to lapse, cur-
tailing the senate's powers and prohibiting military and civilian officials
from participating in the Cabinet. These changes, when combined with the
current coalition's diversity, and the Prime Minister's lack of an independent
political power base, have made it hard to achieve a consensus on difficult
economic issues since the April 1983 election. However, the Government has
endorsed the Fifth Plan's objectives of improved economic management, struc-
tural adjustment and poverty alleviation and has moved cautiously in continued
Plan implementation. Continuation of ongoing policy and institutional reforms
is therefore expected.
Past Economic Trends
5.        Thailand's economy grew rapidly over the past two decades and devel-
o;ped successfully by most standards of international comparison. Its per
capita income growth of almost 5% p.a. during 1960-1980 was among the highest
sustained rates in developing countries. The reduction of poverty was sub-
stantial for a country still among the lowest third of middle-income develop-
ing countries, as the overall incidence of poverty dropped from about 57% in
the early 1960s to about 31% in the mid--1970s. Despite its continuing reli-
ance on agriculture, Thailand experienced a far-reaching transformation of its
economic and social structure during the past two decades, with a high growth
in modern industrial and service sector activities, extension of transport and
communications infrastructure throughout the country, rapid modernization, and
a significant increase in the openness of the economy to trade and capital
flows, tourism and international labor migration. The rapid growth in
Thailand's exports played a particularly important role in stimulating aggre-
gate demand and providing the necessary means to finance imports. Moreover,
because of this rapid export growth, the Thai debt service burden remained
moderate.
6.        However, because of its increased openness, its heavy dependence on
imported oil, and an expansionary fiscal stance in the late 1970s, the Thai
economy was substantially affected by the two oil price shocks and by the
ensuing international upheaval. A relatively high rate of overall growth was
maintained initially but this was accompanied by accelerating inflation, large
fiscal and external deficits and growing dependence on foreign borrowing.
Consumer prices increased by 10% in 1979, by 20% in 1980, and by 13% in
1981. The Central Government deficit on average exceeded 4% of GDP in the
period 1979-82. Notwithstanding continued rapid export growth, the current
account deficit amounted to 7.7% of GDP in 1979, 6.2% in 1980, and 6.9% in
1981; consequently, there has been a rapid accumulation of Thailand's tradi-
tionally low external debt.
7.        Initially, the Government was slow in responding to the changing
external conditions, but, beginning in 1980, policy adjustments were under-
taken at a gradually accelerating pace through 1982. They included sharp
increases in prices for most petroleum products, electricity and other public



-3 -
services; measures to increase government revenues; a substantial increase in
real interest rates; and the introduction of regulations to increase financial
stability and monetary restraint. In October 1981 the Government inaugurated
its Fifth Five-Year Plan (1982-86) which made structural adjustment one of its
major priorities. In March 1982, the first SAL for Thailand was approved,
under which the Government committed itself to taking steps towards an adjust-
ment in the structure of the economty through reductions in domestic price
controls, export taxes and controls over agricultural exports; developing a
program for improved land tenure; t.aking steps toward rationalization of the
structure of incentives for industrial production, exports, and investment;
promoting energy conservation and efficient development of domestic energy
resources; and improving the Government's tax structure and administration,
public investment planning, and other areas of public administration. Prog-
ress under SAL I was satisfactory, and SAL II was approved in March 1983 with
the goal of continued and expanded implementation of the Government's
structural adjustment program. Further progress has been made since that
time, but at a somewhat slower pace than originally expected. However, the
Government remains committed to sat:isfactory completion of SAL II programs.
8.        Macroeconomic developments in Thailand during 1982/83 were dominated
by a number of external factors, in particular, the worldwide recession in
1982 and gradual recovery in 1983. The average real growth rate of GDP for
1982/83 was about 5% p.a., and rea:L income growth when adjusted for terms-of-
trade changes was even lower at about 2% p.a. and thus stagnant in per capita
terms. This lower than historical economic growth performance was due to a
combination of high real interest rates at home and abroad, worldwide reces-
sion and thus much lower export prices and growth, and a relatively slow
growth in agricultural production dlue to poor weather and low commodity
prices. As a result of weak domestic demand in 1982, lower international
prices, and an appreciating exchange rate, domestic inflation dropped from 13%
in 1981 to below 4% in 1983.
9.        The growth of export value and volume also slowed considerably dur-
ing this period. In 1983, export value actually dropped by 6%, as a result of
a poor 1982/83 crop year, a revival of domestic demand, an appreciating effec-
tive exchange rate (especially in relation to Thailand's main competitors),
and international trade restrictions affecting selected Thai export products
(especially tapioca, sugar, tin and textiles). Imports, on the other hand,
which had declined in 1982 in line with a slump in domestic investment and
destocking, resumed rapid growth in 1983 because of a revival in domestic
private demand in the face of lower interest rates and high banking liquidity
and, possibly, as a result of exceptional accumulation of stocks driven by
expectations of an impending devaluation of the baht. A continued high public
investment-savings gap added to the excess demand. Given these trade develop-
ments, the current account deficit, which had reached a low of only about 3%
of GDP in 1982, rebounded to 5.6% of GDP in 1983 according to preliminary
estimates, and may in fact prove to have exceeded 6% of GDP once final figures
are available. Since late 1983, the Government has taken steps to control the
recovery. Tax measures were taken to reduce the prospective budgetary gap for
FY83/84, public expenditure plans were trimmed and monetary conditions were
tightened. For 1984, the external, balance is likely to improve, since a rela-
tively good harvest in the 1983/84 crop year and better international commo-
dity prices are expected to lead t:o an improved performance of Thailand's



- 4 -
traditional exports, while imports are likely to grow more modestly, as pri-
vate investment growth and restocking slow down, and as the public investment-
savings gap is reduced by higher levels of taxation and reduced expenditure
growth. However, continued implementation of the structural adjustment
program remains essential to restoring :Lnternal and external balance in the
Thai economy.
Development Constraints and Prospects
10.       During the 1980s, many of the positive factors which contributed to
Thailand's rapid economic growth and reduction in poverty over the preceding
two decades will continue to do so, including the relatively equitable distri-
bution of agricultural land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to improved tech-
nology, a good network of public infrastructure, and a dynamic private sector
in industry, agriculture and services. Substantial reductions in the rate of
population growth between the mid-1960s and late 1970s and discovery of domes-
tic gas and oil supplies are further positive factors which will support the
continued rapid development of Thailand.
11.       Against these favorable factors, however, a number of important con-
straints must be recognized and addressed: (a) For the longer term, the
exhaustion of agricultural land reserves could severely limit employment
growth and exports of the agricultural sector,, unless rapid, labor-intensive
agricultural development proceeds. (b) Further industrial development,
exports and employment growth may similarly be limited unless the interna-
tional competitiveness and diversification of Thai industry are strengthened
through correct incentives and support for marketing, finance and technologi-
cal developments. (c) Despite the promising outlook for domestic energy
resources, their development is costly and will take time, and thus continued
efforts in energy conservation are required. (d) The decline in the popula-
tion growth rate appears to have slowed in recent years; further reductions
wiLl require innovative policies. (e) Continued long-term development and
poverty alleviation will also depend on continued efforts in human resource
development, including education, technical skill development, and improve-
ments in health and nutrition. (f) The pace of development will increasingly
be hampered by inefficient metropolitan growth in Bangkok, unless steps are
taken to rationalize the city's land use and transport, water drainage and
saniitation systems; Thailand's secondary cities, too, require strengthening of
their infrastructure and administrative capabilities to prepare them for the
expected future growth in urban population. (g) Finally, the rapid growth of
Thailand's public sector over the last decade, particularly of major state
enterprises, without commensurate growth in public resource mobilization, has
posed a serious challenge to improvements in inastitutional and fiscal
management.
12.       These long-term economic development concerns have been compounded
by medium-term adjustment problems as a result of the two oil price shocks and
the subsequent world recession accompanied by poor export prospects and high
real interest rates. Economic projections carried out for the recent Economic
Report indicate that continued implementation of the Government's program for
structural adjustment should make it possible to restore external balance for
the economy during the Fifth Plan period.  Over the medium term, however, the
slower growth of GDP (6% p.a. for the remainder of the 1980s compared with



-5 -
7.4% achieved in the latter half oi the 1970s) while still better than that of
most other developing countries, w:Lll make it more difficult to increase
employment and to reduce the incidence of poverty and regional inequalities,
and heighten the need for policies which raise the labor absorption of Thai
development, and for continued efforts in the areas of human capital develop-
ment and rural development.
13.       To assist it in realizing the objectives of the Fifth Plan, the
Government has sought the assistance of the IMF and the Bank. During the past
three years, Thailand made purchases from the IMF under a compensatory financ-
ing facility (SDR 186 million), a buffer stock financing facility (SDR 58 mil-
lion), and two standby arrangements with total purchases of SDR 617 million,
under these two arrangements). With regard to the Bank, the Government sought
assistance in implementing its structural adjustment program through two
structural adjustment loans. The first such loan was approved by the Execu-
tive Directors on March 2, 1982; the second loan was approved on March 31,
1983. The Government has also expressed its interest in obtaining Bank
assistance in preparing the Sixth Five Year Plan (1987-91). The country
economic and sector work program for Thailand has been structured accordingly.
Financing Requirements
14.       While the Government is making considerable efforts to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of its spending, the implementation of policies
needed for a satisfactory rate of economic and social progress will require
continued growth in the absolute level of public expenditures, though they are
expected to drop somewhat in relat:ion to GDP. In order to reduce the public
investment-savings gap to sustainable levels, much greater efforts will be
required to mobilize domestic resources than in the past. The Government's
domestic revenue, as a percentage of GDP (about 14% for 1978 to 1980), is low
compared to that of other developing countries at similar levels of develop-
ment. Recently, the Government has taken steps to revise the tax structure
and to improve collections with resultant improvements in the revenue/GDP
ratio. Further tax measures are ;planned, particularly in the area of improved
tax administration and structure. In addition, the financial situation of
state enterprises, which has stabilized in the wake of tariff increases since
1980 and cutbacks in overly ambitious investment programs, will need further
improvement. The Government is currently reviewing appropriate policies to
advise a more efficient and financially viable state enterprise sector.
15.       Despite these fiscal policy measures and the ambitious structural
adjustment policies to be implemented in the agriculture, industry and energy
sectors, the demand for external resources will increase. Macroeconomic
projections indicate that the current account deficit will remain at levels of
about $1.5 billion per annum through most of the 1980s, while declining as a
share of GDP. Even the realization of this target will require large amounts
of external borrowing, totaling about $30 billion over the period 1984-90, of
which about 45% is expected to be iv the form of public and publicly guaran-
teed debt. Assuming a significant level of concessional assistance, total
debt service payments as a percentage of exports of goods and nonfactor ser-
vices will rise from 15.4% in 1980 to 19.6% in 1990, reaching a peak of 21.8%
in 1987 (including repurchases from the IMF). Given the diversification of
Thai commodity exports and the continued expansion of agricultural and



i 6> -
manufactured exports expected as a resuLt of appropriate structural adjustment
policies, these debt service requirement:s should be sustainable.
16.       Official donors, particularly the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
of Japan and the development banks, have been expanding their programs to meet
a larger part of Thailand's growing public resource requirements.  The rest
has been financed mainly through syndicaLted loans and bond issues. The
Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy Committee to coordinate and
approve all foreign borrowing by the public sector. The Bank of Thailand is
improving its procedures for recording private borrowing abroad in order to
keep track of total foreign debt. External agencies, including the Bank
Group, have in recent years increasingly concentrated on project lending to
Thailand in some sectors that have high social benefits but low foreign
exchange savings or earnings.  To achieve the level of external resource
transfers that is now required, it is necessary, in selected projects where
the foreign exchange component is low, to finance some local currency expen-
ditures.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
17.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of September 30, 1983, had received 76 IBRD loans (including
two third-window loans) and six IDA credits, totaling (net of cancellations)
$3,244 million in loans and $125 million in credits. As of that date, $1,344
million remained undisbursed on effective loarLs and credits. No IDA credits
have been extended to Thailand since FY79. Arnex II contains a summary state-
ment of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments.
18.       The sectoral distribution of Bank loans and IDA credits, in dollar
terms, has been as follows: 28% for energy; 25% for agriculture and rural
development; 16% for transportation; 9% for telecommunications; 4% for urban
development; 5% for education; 2% for industry; 1% for population/health/
nutrition; and 10% for structural adjustment lending. Overall implementation
of Bank projects in Thailand has improvedl steadily during the past five
years. Thailand's disbursement ratio increased from 17.7% in 1977 to 31.6% in
1983. These rates compare well with other countries. In 1983, for example,
the ratios for two comparator countries, the Philippines and Morocco, were
19.4% and 17.9%, respectively.
19..      Over the past six years, the Bank has shifted its lending in
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastructure
projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY75) to a program
which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government in its efforts to
reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since FY76,
investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications and
industry have accounted for about 65% of Bank Group lending and about half of
these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed to benefit the
rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the agricultural/rural
development sector has trebled, accounting for about 25% of lending operations
since FY76. The design of projects in this sector has also changed, from
exclusively large irrigation projects to a mores balanced program covering



irrigation (including land development and support services to the farmer) and
a variety of innovative projects to assist farmers outside the central flood
plain (rubber replanting, livestock, agricultural extension, research and
credit). Projects in the social sectors which, prior to FY76, were limited to
three in education, accounting for 5% of the lending program, have both diver-
sified and grown. In recent years education, population and low-income
housing projects have accounted for about 10% of the program.
20.       For the future, the Bank.s assistance objectives are to support the
Government's development efforts, as articulated in its Fifth Five-Year Plan,
to address: (a) the long-term issues of alleviation of poverty, promotion of
employment, and reduction of income disparities; and (b) the medium-term issue
of restructuring the Thai economy through the intensification of agriculture,
efficient development of the industrial sector, promotion of domestic energy
conservation and development, increased mobilization of public resource, and
improvement of institutional capacity in the public sector. In addition to
these two broad objectives, Bank assistance in Thailand also aims at moving
from project-specific to sectoral lending, especially in agriculture, indus-
try, energy, and education, and at strengthening the local Thai capacity for
policy formulation and analysis.
21.       In implementing this stirategy, projects in the areas of agriculture
and rural development will seek to generate employment and income growth par-
ticularly among the poorer farm households in the rainfed areas of the country
and will support the structural adjustment process by aiming at continued
growth of agricultural production and exports through intensification. Lend-
ing for transport and communications will increasingly aim at expanding the
rural road system and thus support agricultural and rural development for the
medium and longer term. In the urban development and human resources sectors,
Bank lending will be geared to strengthening the long-term capacity of
Thailand to transform itself efficiently from a primarily agricultural and
rural economy to a relatively more industrial and urban economy, while also
supporting the Government's goal to address basic human needs in the more
disadvantaged rural and urban areas of the country. Lending in the energy and
industry sectors will be designed to support structural adjustment and growth
through the efficient development and utilization of domestic energy resources
and the strengthening of the financial infrastructure. Finally, structural
adjustment lending will strengthen the Government's structural adjustment
program through studies, development of action programs, and policy action$ in
the areas of agriculture, industry, energy, fiscal policy, and institutional
development.
22.       Bank loans and IDA credits to Thailand, disbursed and outstanding,
amounted to $1,683.2 million as of September 30, 1983. Thailand's Bank and
IDA debt disbursed and outstanding accounted for 17.6% of its total debt (dis-
bursed and outstanding), while thie Bank Group's share of Thailand's total debt
service payments amounted to 10.0% in 1983. This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall external debt (22.4% of GDP in 1981) and the stable
shares of Bank Group debt in total debt, and of Bank Group debt service in
total debt service.
23.       As of September 30, 1983, IFC had made fifteen commitments totalling
$116.0 million in ten projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been



- 8 -
primarily in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed
at mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller enter-
prises. Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been enhanced
by expanding private sector investment activity, and consultations with the
Government have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may be
needed. IFC is focusing its activities on projects based on natural
resources. Recent investments were made in a tantalum smelter and chemical
plant to process slags from the tin smelter and in an aquaculture project to
breed and grow shrimp and fish. IFC has also invested in a pilot company to
develop the petrochemical complex that will utilize the ethane/propane from
th,e gas separation plant being built with World Bank assistance. Under con-
struction is a cement expansion project geared for the domestic market.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
24.       The efficient development of Thailand's indigenous energy resources
is of primary importance to reducing the country's import dependence, increas-
ing its foreign exchange savings and promoting its industrial development.
FoLlowing the two oil price shocks in the 1970s, the average value of Thai-
land's energy imports as a share of total imports rose from 13.4% between
1970-74 to 28% between 1979-81.  The average value of energy imports in the
two periods rose tenfold (from B 5.1 bil:Lion to B 52.0 billion) and by 1980,
45% of the export earnings was required to finance energy imports. Virtually
alL petroleum products, accounting for 7L% of total energy, were imported or
were refined from imported crude.
25..      During the 1970s, energy consumption grew at a rapid pace (averaging
8.8% per annum) due to growth and structural change in the economy which
expanded industrial and service sectors as well as commercialized agricul-
ture. The growth in energy consumption was unrestrained by domestic energy
prices, which were not adjusted in line with increases in international oil
prices. In 1981, total commercial energy consumption in Thailand was 16.2
million tonnes of oil equivalent (toe), c:ompared to 5.9 million toe in 1970.
26.       In response to the economic developments of the 1970s, the Govern-
ment prepared the Fifth Five-Year National Economic and Social Development
PlaLn (1982-86) which addressed four interrelated basic energy sector issues:
(i) development of indigenous energy rescurces, such as natural gas, lignite
and hydro electricity; (ii) establishment of rational energy pricing policies;
(iii) promotion of energy conservation programs; and (iv) improvement of
energy sector management, coordination of policies and investments.
27.       Prospects for meeting the Plan's energy sector objectives in the
1980s are good. Since the Plan was formulated, domestic energy prices have
been adjusted to reflect economic costs for most products (para. 47). The
growth of energy consumption has been sharply reduced for most products (from
an average 8.8% p.a. in the 1970s to about 2.5% p.a. since 1979), due to the
steep rise in energy prices and the global recession which has slowed
Thailand's economic growth.



28.       Based on the development of natural gas and lignite resources proven
to date and on the continued expansion of hydro potential, as well as energy
conservation and curtailed energy demand, particularly for petroleum products,
Thailand should be able to achieve a structural shift in the composition of
its energy consumption, reducing the share of energy imports in its overall
energy consumption from 89% in 1981 to 38% by 1990. The share of lignite in
total energy consumption is expected to increase from 4% in 1981 to 10% in
1990.
29.       The Bank has taken an active role in support of the Government's
development objectives and program of policy reform in the Fifth Plan through
structural adjustment loans (SALs I and II in 1982 and 1983, respectively) and
through loans for exploration and development of indigenous energy resources
(with which Thailand is well endowed). A detailed discussion of the struc-
tural adjustment of the Thai economy (including that of the energy sector) and
policy actions cited in the Fifth Plan to implement the process on a broad
front are contained in the most recent economic report (para. 2).
Energy Resources
30.       Natural gas reserves in the Gulf of Thailand are currently estimated
to amount to about 20 trillion cubic feet (tcf), of which about 4 tcf are
proven. Gas production began in September 1981 in the Erawan field at a rate
of 70-80 million standard cubic feet per day (MMSCFD). During 1982 and 1983,
production gradually increased to about 150 MMSCFD but remained short of the
200 to 250 MMSCFD which had originally been expected. The shortfall is attri-
butable to technical difficulties and to the fact that the gas reserves are
distributed over smaller-than-expected reservoirs. Proven reserves have
recently been reassessed downwards.
31.       Exploration and current finds of oil in Northern Thailand have
improved expectations of increased domestic oil production. Three small oil
fields in the Fang area currently yield about 800 barrels per day (bpd). Pro-
duction at Sirikit Oil Field, near Lan Krabu, began in 1983 at a rate of 5,000
bpd, increased to 10,000 bpd by January 1984, and may reach 17,000 bpd by
1986. Oil shale deposits in Tak province are under feasibility study by the
Department of Mineral Resources (DMR), with the assistance of the Government
of the Federal Republic of Germany. At current oil prices, however, oil shale
development is unlikely to be economically viable.
32.       In the last two years, known lignite reserves in Thailand have
increased from 750 to 857 million tonnes, predominantly at Mae Moh where
reserve levels have increased by 25% (from 650 to 814 million tonnes). EGAT
has been exploring intensively over the last several years at Mae Moh and also
in the vicinity of Krabi mine, where known reserves are limited (20 million
tonnes) but where promising new outcrops have been discovered. Thai lignite
deposits are of medium to good quality. Heating values lie in the 2,300 to
3,000 kcal/kg range (as received). Volatile matters can be as hLgh as 35%,
ash content usually varies from 20 to 30% and sulphur is generally high.
33.       Lignite in Thailand is used almost exclusively for large-scale power
generation at the mine site since its high moisture and ash content make it
uneconomical to transport and its potential disaggregation and spontaneous



- 1o -
combustion characteristics make it unsafe to store. From 1978-82, lignite
production increased almost threefold from 0.6 to 1.7 million tonnes per year
(tpy).  In 1982, over 90% of the lignite produced was used for power genera-
tion, with the remainder used by industries and households mainly for tobacco
curing. Industrial use is expected to decline proportionally in the future
due to transportation, handling and technological constraints.
34.       Lignite production capacity at: Mae Moh is currently under expansion
(under Loan 1852-TH) to 2.8 million tpy to support 375 MW of power generation
capacity (Power Units 1-4); Unit 4 (150 MW) will be completed in May 1984.
Under the proposed project, the mine would be expanded to 5 million tpy to
support an increased power generation capacity of 825 MW to be achieved by
March 1986 through the addition of Power Units 5-7 (150 MW each), construction
of which is well advanced (para. 78). Current plans are to expand Mae Moh
production to 12 million tpy by the early 199()s to support an ultimate power
generation capacity of 1,725 MW. By 1990, 25% of EGAT's total generation
could be from lignite-fired thermal stations.
35.       The total hydroelectric potential of Thailand's rivers is estimated
at about 9,300 MW, not including the international rivers (Mekong and
Salween), whose development potential of 25,0()0 MW is currently beyond reach
due to major political and social obstacles. About 1,380 MW of hydropower are
now in operation, 2,100 MW are under construction, and about 2,500 MW in 25
projects are at various stages of identification or feasibility study. Mini-
hydro potential at over 100 sites is estimated at about 3,290 MW. According
to current plans, hydropower production will increase at an average annual
rate of about 13% between 1981 and 1995.
36.       Thailand's other energy resources include fuelwood and possibly
geothermal energy. Fuelwood resources, once plentiful, are rapidly being
depleted and deforestation is becoming a serious problem. Geothermal explora-
tion is being carried out by EGAT in the northern part of Thailand near
Chiangmai.
Sector Investment and Coordination
37.       Energy is now the single most important sector for public spend-
ing. For the Fifth Plan period, the National Economic and Social Development
Board (NESDB) has projected that the energy sector will accoutt for about 26%
of total governmental spending, up from the average of 18% during the Fourth
Plan period. Energy sector weighs even more heavily in total public invest-
ment at 31.9% in 1981, up from 13.7% in 1977. The energy sector is expected
to continue to account for more than 50% of state enterprise investment
throughout the Fifth Plan period. EGAT is expected to retain its large share
(55-75%) in energy spending for the Fifth Plan period, with the Petroleum
Authority of Thailand (PTT) continuing to grow in importance as it is involved
in further gas and oil development and utilization projects.
38.       Energy sector policy and planning functions involve the Cabinet,
NESDB and the National Energy Administration (NEA). In principle, NEA, which
is under the Ministry of Science, Technology and Energy, is responsible for
sector planning and coordination. However, energy sector decisions are often
taken ad hoc by various Cabinet committees and subcommittees. As part of the



- 11 -
Government's structural adjustment program, an energy strategy formulation
study is being initiated to provide the basis for determining an appropriate
approach to energy sector planninig and for improving the institutional policy
framework.
The Power Subsector
39.       Thailand has three autonomous state electricity enterprises.  EGAT,
under the direction of the Prime Minister's Office, is responsible for power
generation and transmission and sells bulk power to large industrial consumers
and to power distribution author:ities. The Metropolitan Electricity Authority
(MEA) and the Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA), under the direction of
the Ministry of Interior, are responsible for power distribution.
40.       At the end of FY82, EGAT owned 88.5% of the country's 4,620 MW power
generating capacity, PEA and NEA 1.7%, and self-generating industries 9.8%.
Steam plants represented about 48% of installed capacity, hydro 30%, gas
turbines 16%, and diesel 6%. About 71% of the electricity generated during
FY81 relied on imported sources of energy. Total electricity consumption was
13,886 GWh in FY81, or 290 kWh per capita.
41.       Power subsector coordi:nation among the different government agencies
concerned is achieved through (i) the operations of the Load Forecast Working
Group, made up of representatives from the NESDB, the NEA, EGAT, PEA and MEA;
(ii) the current procedure for setting electricity rates whereby attention is
given to the cross-funding necessary to ensure that EGAT, PEA and MEA each
generate an adequate proportion of their capital investments and to prevent
cash imbalances; (iii) the Committee for Power Policy and Development (CPPD),
which was formed in 1977 to oversee the functioning and development of the
subsector and to provide overall coordination; and (iv) the Ministry of
Science, Energy and Technology, which was established in 1979 for the develop-
ment of non-conventional energy sources and new uses of existing energy
sources. While coordination in the power subsector is satisfactory, possi-
bilities for further strengthening of policy coordination in the energy sector
as a whole are being pursued through continuing dialogue with the Government
and under the Banks structural adjustment loans to Thailand (paras. 29
and 38).
42.       Tariff Levels.  Tariff levels were adequate throughout the late
1960s and the early 1970s, and the financial position of the subsector
remained strong.  During that period, the electricity subsector enjoyed sub-
stantial economies of scale through shifts to hydroelectric and large steam
generation coupled with rapid increases in power demand, allowing periodic
tariff reductions. This trend was reversed with the fuel crisis and economic
downturn of 1973/74 which necessitated large increases in tariffs. Only
partial adjustments, however, were politically feasible.
43.       Severe droughts in 1977 and 1978 adversely affected the thermal/
hydro generation mix and in 1979 fuel oil prices increased some 115%. In an
attempt to prevent higher energy costs from accelerating inflation, the
Government chose to delay passing on the rising costs of electricity to con-
sumers. By mid-1979 the Government, faced with mounting criticism of its
handling of the economy, introduiced direct budgetary subsidies on electricity
tariffs, costing an estimated $9.0 million per month.



- 12 -
44.       In 1980, however, the Government agreed to a Plan of Action to
remove subsidies and restore the sector's financial viability, in connection
with EGAT's first Mae Moh Lignite Project (Loan 1852-TH). This Plan was
implemented through a surcharge on heavy consumers established in August 1980
and tariff increases in October 1980, January 1981 and April 1981. Thus,
despite a difficult political climate and rapid inflation, the Government
implemented overall increases of 158% in EGAT's electricity tariff between
February 1980 and April 1981 and eliminated oil subsidies.
45.       Power Investment Program.  Since FY79, sectoral power demand growth
has slowed dramatically from an average annual rate of 12.5% (FY73-79) to 6.4%
for the three-year period ending September 1982. Accordingly, official power
demand growth projections have been scaled back from 11% for the 1980-86
period to 8.5% for the 1982-91 period to refleact the economic downturn.
46.       EGAT's total investment program for the Fifth Plan period has also
been reduced and rescheduled (from an estimat(ed cost of B 95 billion to
B 77 billion).  Projects under construction and which are designed largely to
replace imported oil with domestic energy resources in the medium term (before
19,88) have been retained within the program, including the planned power Units
5-7 and proposed lignite mine expansion at Mae Moh, while other projects have
been deleted or postponed.
Energy Pricing
47'.      Pricing Policies.  Until 1979, Thailand's domestic energy prices
were held substantially below the average import price of oil. Since then,
the Government has increased domestic energy prices (by 160-180% between 1978
and 1982) to reflect international price developments. Electricity tariffs
have also been raised and broadly reflect the marginal cost of power genera-
tion, being set at levels that generate a financial rate of return of about 8%
on revalued assets.
48.       Thailand has established the price levels for its commercial fuels
on an individual basis and there is no coordinated pricing system across the
energy sector. The introduction of natural gas on a large scale, the devel-
opment of lignite, and changes in petroleum product prices are leading to
substantial changes in energy consumption and investment patterns. The
Government recently initiated two energy pricing studies to rationalize
pricing policies in the energy sector and promote the efficient utilization of
energy. The first study on lignite pricing, carried out under the first Mae
Moh Lignite Project (1852-TH), was reviewed by EGAT and the Bank in June 1983
and is in final stages of completion. The second study, undertaken in the
context of the Structural Adjustment Program (SAL I), covers petroleum
products and natural gas and its constituents and is now under review.
49.       Lignite Prices.  The results of the lignite pricing study show that
the opportunity cost of lignite corresponds cLosely to its long-run marginal
production costs; the economic (depletion) rent element is small since a
lignite-fired power plant costs about the sames to build and run (including the
lignite mining costs) as would a coastal power plant burning imported coal.
The study also shows that the 1983 lignite transfer price of $19.22 per tonne
is close to the lignite opportunity cost as weall as the economic cost of
imported steam coal.



- 13 -
50.       Assurances were obtained that EGAT would use a lignite pricing
methodology based on meeting the dual objectives of ensuring the financial
vlability of EGAT's mining operations and reflecting the opportunity cost of
lignite (Section 5.05(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). Since the 1983 trans-
fer price was in line with economic pricing results, EGAT has agreed to adjust
this price annually by 2% in real terms in 1984 and 1985 in order to reflect
the expected movement of the lignite opportunity cost and to maintain the
financial viability of EGAT's lignite mining operations. Whether lignite
prices will remain within reasonable bounds of economic prices over the long
term depends, among other things, on the behavior of lignite mining costs and
of long-term international coal prices. Therefore, to ensure that the trans-
fer price continues to meet both economic and financial objectives, assurances
were obtained that EGAT would reassess its pricing policy every three years,
starting in 1985 for application in 1986 (Section 5.05(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The review would take into consideration changes in known reserve
levels, the cost to the economy of alternative domestic and imported fuels and
the financial impact of the price on EGAT's Lignite Mine Department.
Bank Participation in Power and Lignite Development
51.       The Bank has made eleven loans to EGAT and its predecessor utili-
ties, totaling $542 million, to help finance power plants and transmission
facilities, and another of $72 mlillion for lignite production.-  In addition,
three loans for a total of $136.6 million were made to PEA to help finance its
Accelerated Rural Electrification Projects and the Provincial Power Distribu-
tion Project (Loans 1527-TH, 1871-TH and 2312-TH). The first seven power pro-
jects have been completed and are all operating satisfactorily. The implemen-
tation of the Eighth Power Project (Loan 1485-TH, Pattani Hydroelectric
Project) was completed on schedule with three generating units in operation.
The Ninth Power Project (Loan 1690-TH, 550 MW Bang Pakong Thermal Power
Project) is about 95% complete, about two months behind schedule because of
poor soil conditions encountered during foundation piling. The Tenth Power
Project (Loan 1770-TH, Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project) is about 70% complete,
nine months behind schedule because of unexpectedly poor rock foundations.
The First Mae Moh Lignite Project (Loan 1852-TH), which was approved by the
Board on April 22, 1980, is proceeding satisfactorily and is about 97% com-
plete. The project is expected to be completed in April 1984. The last loan
($100 million) to EGAT was the Power Subsector Project (Loan 2000-TH), which
was approved by the Board on May 21, 1981, in support of EGAT's FY80-86 power
generation and transmission program. Procurement for the two transmission
subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily. Government approval of the Chiew
Larn Hydro subproject was delayed by about nine months, but the construction
of the subproject is now proceeding satisfactorily.
1/   Loans No. 175-TH (1957), 333-TH (1963), 406-TH (1965), 489-TH (1967),
655-TH (1970), 790-TH (1971), 977-TH (1974), 1485-TH (1977), 1690-TH
(1979), 1770-TH (1979), 1852-TH (1980), 2000-TH (1981).



- 14 -
Project Performance Audits
52.       To date, project performance audit reports have been prepared on
three of the early loans to EGAT: the First Power Project (Loan 655-TH), the
South Bangkok Thermal Unit No. 4 Project (Loan 790-TH) and the Ban Chao Nen
(Srinagarind) Hydroelectric Project (Loan 977-TH). The audit reports con-
cluded that the major objectives of the respective projects had been met.
E:GAT complied with all the covenants and its performance was satisfactory.
EGAT - The Borrower
53.       EGAT was established in 1968 by the merger of three power utilities
(the Yanhee Electricity Authority, the Northeast Electricity Authority and the
Lignite Authority) to coordinate the power generation and transmission systems
and increase electricity supply throughout tlhe country. EGAT has succeeded in
these objectives and can now be considered a highly developed and efficient
institution.
54.       EGAT is functionally organized with deputy managers for administra-
tion, technical planning and procurement, engineering and construction, and
hydro and thermal power plant operations. The Lignite Mine Department reports
to the Deputy Manager for Construction.
55.       EGAT's installed power generating capacity at the end of FY82 was
4,088 MW of which oil-fired steam accounted ior 40%, hydro 34%, gas turbine
18%, lignite-fired steanm 7%, and diesel 1%. This composition has changed
significantly since 1978 when oil-fired steam accounted for over 55% of
installed capacity.
56.       During the FY76-78 period, EGAT consistently generated operating
surpluses, in spite of large increases in fuel costs and Government-imposed
constraints on tariff adjustments as a part cf the government's anti-
inflationary measures, through greater efficiency resulting from increases in
hydro generation and larger steam plants. In, FY79 and 80, however, EGAT's
fiLnancial position deteriorated (with a net profit of $7 million equivalent in
FY79 and a loss of $44 million equivalent in FY80). To help solve EGAT's
liquidity problems during 1980, the Government granted EGAT equity contribu-
tions of B 1.2 billion ($59 million) and also arranged a transfer of B 100
million ($5 million) from MEA and PEA to EGAT. EGAT also increased its
borrowings in 1980 over the previous year by about 20%. These equity and loan
ftnds ensured that EGAT's normal operations and investment program were not
affected.
57.       Since then, implementation of the Plan of Action (para. 44) to
restore EGAT's and the sector's financial soundness has been effective.
EGAT's net income recovered to $126 million equivalent in FY82 and $154 mil-
lion in FY83, and its liquidity position improved substantially. EGAT's rate
of return on net revalued fixed assets, which was negative in FY80, increased
to over 8% in FY81 and 11% in FY82 and FY83, meeting EGAT's obligations under
its prior loans from the Bank. Similarly, for this loan, assurances were
obtained that EGAT would maintain a rate of return of at least 8% and that the
Guarantor would maintain an 8% rate of return for the sector as a whole (Sec-
tion 5.06(a) of the draft Loan Agreement; Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee



- 15 -
Agreement). As in previous loans, assurances were obtained that EGAT would
review the adequacy of its tariff E on a quarterly basis and maintain a fuel
cost variation charge in its tariff schedule to compensate for changes in the
prices of all fuels (including lignite) (Section 5.06(c) and (d) of the draft
Loan Agreement). Finally, assurances were obtained that EGAT would continue
to maintain the debt equity ratio of 1.5 and a 15% limitation on short- and
medium-term debt previously estab:Lished for EGAT are also continued (Sections
5.07 and 5.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
58.       Lignite Mine Department.  The Department has been reorganized and
expanded in size and scope over the last three years to support EGAT-s lignite
development plans. The Department has successfully developed a professional
core of capable technical personnel that have gained experience through imple-
mentation of the first mine expansion at Mae Moh, the only large open-pit mine
in Thailand. The Department lends its services on occasion to NEA, DMR and
other Government agencies with mining interests.
59.       EGAT transferred financial management responsibility for mine opera-
tions to the Lignite Mine Department in connection with the first Mae Moh
Lignite Project (Loan 1852-TH). Assurances have been obtained that EGAT will
continue to operate its mining activities as Mine Accounting Centers, with
separate accounts and financial statements, and have all Lignite Mine Depart-
ment accounts and statements audited by independent auditors (Sections 5.02
and 5.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Department's new mine accounting
system is soundly based but not yet fully used to facilitate official manage-
ment of mining operations. This is due to lack of familiarity of the Lignite
Mine Department with management control techniques that the system permits and
inadequate communication between the Mine Accounting Division, which prepares
the financial data and which is under EGAT's Controller's Department, and
Lignite Mine Department personnel. To facilitate communication between the
Mine Accounting Division and the Lignite Mine Department, EGAT plans to
relocate the Division to the Lignite Mine Department.
60.       Training is ongoing under the first Mae Moh Project in mine planning
and operations as well as in financial forecasting, variance analysis and
capital investment evaluation, and technical assistance is being provided in
establishing a management information reporting system that provides feedback
to the Lignite Mine Department necessary to managerial decisions and informa-
tion to relevant financial departments in a timely manner.
61.       Under the proposed project, EGAT will prepare a detailed definition
of supplemental training requirements (para. 73) to provide the reinforcement
necessary for full implementation of the proposed project, including the
strengthening of technical, financial and managerial functions of its Lignite
Mine Department.



- 16 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
62.       The first Mae Moh Lignite Project (Loan No. 1852-TH) was designed to
meet the incremental demand of the power generating facilities up to ahd
including the 150 MW Unit 4, necessitating an increase in lignite production
from 1.0 million to 2.8 million tpy. The proposed project represents the
second stage of the mine expansion to 5.0 million tpy by 1987, when three
additional power stations of 150 MW each (Units 5-7) will be constructed,
increasing the total generating capacity to 825 MW.
6:3.      The proposed project was appraised in January/February 1983, and a
brief follow-up mission visited Thailand in June 1983. A Staff Appraisal
Report entitled "Second Mae Moh Lignite Project" (No. 4799-TH) dated March 23,
1984 is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided
in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from February 21-24,
1984. The Government and EGAT delegations were headed, respectively, by Mr.
Nibhat Bhukkanasut, Financial and Economic Counsellor, Royal Thai Embassy in
Washington, D.C., and Mr. Kasame Chatikavanij, General Manager of EGAT.
Project Objectives and Scope
64.       The main project objectives are:
(a) to increase the lignite-fired electricity generation capacity of
Thailand from 375 MW in 1984 to 835 MW in 1987 in order to reduce
the country's dependence on imported fuel oil for power generation
in line with EGAT's least-cost development program;
(b) to ensure the economic and financia:L viability of the mining
operations through, inter alia, use of a lignite transfer price that
reflects the opportunity cost of substitute fuel and that provides
for financially sound operations;
(c) to strengthen EGAT's Lignite Mine Department in technical, opera-
tional and financial aspects through the provision of technical
assistance and training in specialized areas, and to strengthen its
administrative capability in regard to large overburden removal
contracts; and
(d) to minimize any adverse environmental impact of lignite-based
electricity generation.
65.       The scope of the proposed project includes engineering, procurement
and erection of mining and related equipment (mainly conveyor belts, semi-
mobile crushers, off-highway trucks, and auxiliary equipment), technical
assistance, training and civil works in order to increase the production
capacity of the Mae Moh open-pit lignite mine from 2.8 million to about
5.0 million tpy.



- 17 -
Project Description and Development.
66.       The Mae Moh power and mine complex is located in North Thailand in
Lampang Province, approximately 650 km north of Bangkok and 12 km east of the
town of Lampang (Map IBRD No. 14430R1). The main land use in the area is com-
mercial teakwood and tobacco cultivation; there is also some limited subsis-
tence agriculture. Population density in the basin is low and the climate is
tropical, with an average annual rainfall of 1,000 to 1,500 mm. The area is
adequately served by paved roads and by a railspur line which connects the
site with the national rail system approximately 5 km to the south of Mae Moh.
67.       Extensive exploration campaigns have been carried out over the
lignite deposit in a competent and professional manner.  Fill-in drilling for
detailed mine planning is continuing, well ahead of the mine face.
68.       Lignite reserves, with an average ash content of 22% and calorific
value of 2,700 kcal/kg, were established at 814 million tonnes, of which
451 million tonnes are presently defined as mineable reserves. A further
expansion to 1,725 MW of power generating capacity would require about 335
million tonnes of lignite over the plants- useful lifetime. Reserves,
therefore, are ample and assured.
69.       A Master Mining Plan and associated Land Reclamation Plan, both
prepared under Loan 1852-TH, serve as the basis for EGAT's mine planning for
the proposed Project, taking into account a possible expansion to 1,725 MW.
Geotechnical work for the determination of pit slope stability (covenanted
under Loan 1852-TH) has been undertaken for the mine configuration required
for Units 1-4. Further geotechnical work is required in conjunction with the
mine expansion for Units 5-7 and will be carried out by consultants satisfac-
tory to the Bank under the technical assistance program (para. 72). In view
of the importance of this work, assurances were obtained that EGAT would fur-
nish to the Bank a complete report on mine slope stability required by expan-
sion plans, by January 31, 1985 (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
70.       The main project equipment consists of trucks and shovels in con-
junction with semi-mobile crushers and conveyors and will maintain EGAT's
mining capacity at Mae Moh at 10 million bm3 of overburden and lignite. In
addition, EGAT has contracted the removal of 15 million bm3 annually up to a
total of 90 million bm3 of overburden from the Mae Moh lignite mine, over a
period of seven years (1983-90). Subsequently, mining of 25 million bm3 per
year is foreseen from 1990 to 1995, with stripping requirements tapering off
thereafter.  Assurances were obtained that by July 31, 1987 EGAT would re-
evaluate the costs and benefits of this arrangement and, with the Bank-s
concurrence, either (i) continue contracting or (ii) carry out the overburden
removal operations by itself, providing financing and equipment arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement). The
overburden contract was bid only among local Thai construction firms,
subsequent to a policy decision taken by EGAT-s Board, and approved by the
Government. The contract, to be fully financed out of EGAT's internal cash
generation, has been reviewed and approved by the Bank. Bank technical
support will be given to EGAT in supervision of contract work.



18 -
71.       EGAT, having a Long history of successfully handling large civil
work construction contracts (hydroelectric dams, power stations, transmission
lines) sees several advantages resulting from such a contractual arrange-
ment. By contracting most of the required overburden removal work, it is able
to minimize the initial capital investment required for the mine expansion.
More importantly, EGAT, being a parastatal institution, does not wish to have
considerable increases in its labor force, which it cannot divest later,
during the peaks in the overburden stripping.
72.       Technical Assistance and Training.  Although, over the last 10
years, EGAT's Lignite Mine Department has had a very good record in imple-
menting mine expansions and operating open-pit mines, the size and scope
(including management of the contractual work) of the next expansion requires
training of additional technical personnel and technical assistance from
abroad. For this purpose, EGAT is receiving consultant services totalling
A$5.7 million ($4.9 million equivalent) provided under an agreement for
technical assistance and training between the Australian Development
Assistance Bureau (ADAB) and the Government. These services cover both the
Mae Moh and Krabi mines. It is estimated that about $4.2 million equivalent
of the services will be applied to Mae Moh. The objective is to assist EGAT
in detailed mine design, mine management and operation, pit slope stability
inviestigations and environmental protection.  The scope of work of the ADAB
program has been reviewed by the Bank and is considered to be satisfactory.
ADAB has selected a consultant considered satisfactory by EGAT and the Bank.
73.       The project also includes a limited amount of follow-on technical
assistance to the ADAB program which is considered important to project
implementation. This assistance consists of (i) foreign consulting services,
to be financed out of the Bank loan, for engineering, procurement assistance
and erection supervision of the conveyor systems and (ii) short-term training
for technical personnel at similar mine operations abroad, in countries other
than Australia, as well as on-the-job training for Lignite Mine Department
personnel in financial and management aspsects of mine accounting, both train-
ing programs to be financed by EGAT's own resources. Assurances were obtained
thalt EGAT would present a detailed technical training program by no later than
March 31, 1985 and would start implementation by July 31, 1985. A detailed
financial training program would be presented by September 30, 1984, and
imp:Lementation would start by January 31, 1985 (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
74.       Environment.  EGAT is conscientiously seeking to minimize the nega-
tivea environmental and health impact of its operations at Mae Moh and is now
preparing a general environmental impact statement for submission to the Thai
National Environmental Board. Mine reclamation (covered under Loan 1852-TH)
is under way, and EGAT has carried out a successful resettlement program,
relocating about 300 families from the mining area to a new serviced vil-
lage. EGAT has carried out a water sampling program for over three years.
With regard to air quality, electrostatic precipitators with 99.5% efficiency
(as compared to 95% in the previous generating Units 1 and 2) were installed
in order to minimize fly ash dust emissions. EGAT has commissioned an air
qua:Lity study and has agreed to increase the stack height of Units 5-7, now
under construction, in order to comply with Bank guidelines for sulphur
dioxide ground-level concentration. Assurances were obtained that EGAT



- 19 -
would continue to follow environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank and
the Government throughout the project life (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Rationale for Bank Involvement
75.       Bank financing for the proposed project supports the Government's
long-term strategy of developing the country's energy resources in an economic
manner and minimizing the foreign exchange impact of energy imports. In
addition, the proposed project will support the institutional development of
EGAT's Lignite Mine Department, which has grown rapidly in recent years as the
scale of the lignite operations has increased. Bank participation in the
proposed project also provides for a continuing dialogue with the Government
on lignite pricing and its relatioaship to the price of natural gas and the
long-term optimal use of these two domestic energy resources.
Project Execution and Schedule
76.       The proposed project is to be owned, implemented and operated by
EGAT, which is the sole sponsor. Responsibility for overall project execu-
tion, coordination and monitoring lies with the Directorate of the Lignite
Mine Department, which is at present successfully implementing the first
expansion phase. Physical project implementation will be under the respon-
sibility of the Superintendent, Mae Moh Mine, who reports directly to and is
controlled by the Directorate. Project management and implementation arrange-
ments are suitable for a project of this nature. Assurances were obtained
that such arrangements, including project scheduling, cost control and
monitoring practices and procedures, satisfactory to the Bank would be main-
tained at all times (Section 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
77.       Project preparation is well under way.  Following the signing of the
overburden contract in August 1983, the one remaining project component on the
critical path is the installation of equipment needed for EGAT's portion of
the overburden removal. The erection of the waste conveyors and associated
semi-mobile crushers and spreaders will require about 18 months and detailed
engineering, manufacture and delivery will require between 14 and 16 months.
Therefore, in order to complete the installation by early-1987, detailed
engineering was begun in July 1983, and bids are to be invited no later than
mid-1984.
78.       As to the installation of the power generating plant, Units 5, 6
and 7, each of 150 MW, are under construction and in March 1984 were,
respectively, 65%, 19% and 12% complete. EGAT is exercising purchase options
obtained while bidding for Unit 4, and procurement procedures are well under
way. The planned start-up dates of Units 5, 6, and, ultimately, 7 by March
1986 appear to be realistic and no major slippages are anticipated. The
proposed project is expected to be completed by April 30, 1987.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
79.       Total installed project cost (excluding interest during construction
and the Bank front-end fee) is estimated at $231.8 million with a foreign
exchange component of $134.6 million, including duties and taxes of $27.2



- 20 -
mil:Lion equivalent.  Estimates are at January 1983 price levels and include
contingencies amounting to $44.0 miLlion, or 2.3% of the base cost. Physical
contingencies were calculated at 15% of the mining equipment base cost,
excLuding advance overburden removal costs (where contingencies are built into
the unit cost) and equipment for which orders have already been placed. Price
contingencies are based on projected international and local price increases
for (i) foreign costs of 6.5% in 1983, 9.0% in 1984, 7.5% in 1985 and 6.0%
thereafter; and (ii) local costs of 3.5% in 1983, 6.5% in 1984, and 6.0%
thereafter.  Foreign price contingencies reflect trends in prices of mining
equiLpment which, including equipment requirements of pre-stripping and
geoLogical drilling, account for about 94% of foreign project costs. Cost
estimates are summarized in the loan and project summary.
80.       Foreign costs would be met by (i) the proposed Bank loan of $59.1
million, which will cover 39% of direct and indirect foreign costs and 27% of
total financing requirements, excluding duties and taxes; (ii) a Kreditanstalt
fUr Wiederaufbau (KfW) loan of $16.8 million equivalent; (iii) an ADAB grant
of ',4.2 million equivalent; (iv) a commercial bank loan or an export credit of
about $10 million to be arranged; and (v) EGAT's internal cash generation of
$62.5 million equivalent to finance the d:Lrect foreign cost of training and
the indirect foreign cost of the geological drilling and pre-stripping opera-
tions, interest during construction, and a small portion of equipment and
engineering. Local costs would be met by government contribution of $14.4
million and EGAT internal cash generation of $82.8 million. During negotia-
tions, EGAT indicated that, at an appropriate time to be determined in
consultation with the Government and the Bank, it would consider replacing a
part: of the $145.3 million internal cash generation and the $10 million of
commercial bank/export credit funds for the off-highway trucks with a possible
B Loan of up to $50 million. Such a B Loan would be sustainable within the
financial covenants applicable to the Lignite Mine Department (para. 85).
Assurances were obtained that the Government would ensure any funds necessary
to meet cost overruns or shortfalls in financing would be made available
promptly to EGAT to complete the proposed project (Section 2.02 of the
Guarantee Agreement). As in the case of the first Mae Moh Lignite Project,
agreement was reached that the guarantee f'ee, normally required to be paid by
the Borrower to the Government for industrial projects financed by the Bank,
be waived as assurances were obtained that lignite produced under the proposed
project would be used solely for power gerLeration by EGAT (Section 3.09 of the
draf't Loan Agreement).
81.       In considering the mine expansion and related Power Units 5-7 devel-
opments as one investment package, the Bank loan would meet 6.4% of the total
financing required ($926.5 million). Arrangements have been made for cofi-
nancing, which would account for about 37% of the financing required for this
investment package, comprising the Export-Import Bank of Japan and Japanese
suppliers' credits (17.6%), the Asian Development Bank (4.9%), KfW (Germany,
2.5%), the Economic Development Corporation (Canada, 2.0%), the Government of
Switzerland (1.8%), ADAB (Australia, 0.5%), and commercial banks (7.9%).
Procurement and Disbursement
82.       About 91% of all equipment to be financed under the proposed Bank
loan would be procured by ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 21 -
A preference of 15% of the c.i.f. costs of imported goods or the prevailing
custom duties and other import taxes, whichever is lower, would be extended to
qualified local manufacturers. Procurement of individual equipment packages
not exceeding $250,000 would be by limited international tendering acceptable
to the Bank up to an aggregate level of $5.0 million. The proposed Bank loan
would be disbursed against (i) 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory) and 70% of local expenditures for equipment and
vehicles; (ii) 100% of foreign expenditures for consultants' services and
(iii) 100% of the Bank loan front-end fee. The Closing Date of the proposed
loan is April 30, 1988.
Financial Forecasts
83.       EGAT.  Energy sales are estimated to increase at an average annual
growth rate of 7.7% p.a. from FY84 to FY92 (from 18,832 GWh to 34,042 GWh),
with revenues increasing over the same period by 12% p.a. (from $1.2 billion
to $3.0 billion). A downward trend in the ratio of expected total operating
expenses to total operating revenues, in large part due to reductions in fuel
expenses related to oil substitution from 79% in FY83 to 74% in FY92, indi-
cates a reasonably improved financial situation over the forecast period and
an increasing proportion of revenues available to help finance capital expen-
ditures. To finance its construction program through FY90, EGAT intends to
borrow 81%, obtain 2% from the Government as equity to cover duties and taxes
and provide the remaining 17% of required funds from internal cash genera-
tion. EGAT's projected tariff levels (para. 57) and proposed financing plan
would permit EGAT to finance its capital expenditures over FY84-90 maintaining
a satisfactory capital structure throughout the period. EGAT intends to use
available commercial bank overdraft facilities to meet any possible short-term
financing requirements.
84.       Mine Department.  Financial projections for EGAT's mining operations
indicate that, under lignite pricing arrangements established with EGAT (para.
50), the Lignite Mine Department's revenues would cover the Department's mine
operating costs and other expenses (depreciation, amortization of advance
overburden removal, administrative expenses, exploration costs and interest
charges) over the next ten year forecast period (1983-92) and generate suffi-
cient cash in the Department to meet debt repayment obligations (predominantly
Mae Moh I and II loans) and ongoing capital requirements.
85.       To strengthen the financial management and discipline of the mining
operations, assurances were obtained that the Lignite Mine Department would
maintain debt equity ratio of 1.5 and debt service coverage of 1.3 (Section
5.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Financial Rate of Return
86.       The financial rate of return of the proposed project has been made on
an incremental (with and without the project) basis (i) for the mine expansion
alone, and (ii) for the combined mine and power developments (Units 5-7). The
incremental financial return on the mine alone is based on the capital and
operating cost streams of the mine expansion and the incremental revenue to
the mine operations generated by the expanded production and associated "sale"
of lignite to the power plants. The return is thus highly dependent on the



- 22 -
lignite transfer price, which is an administered price.  Under the agreed
pricing arrangements (para. 50) the rate of return on the incremental invest-
merit in the mine expansion is 9%, reflecting high taxes and duties, and the
rate of return on net revalued fixed assets of the Lignite Mine Department is
12% in 1984 increasing to 21% in 1986. The Lignite Mine Department's return
is far higher than the minimum 8% rate of return on net revalued fixed assets
agreed between EGAT and the Bank (para. 57) an,d demonstrates the financial
strength of the mining operations "with the Project."
87.       The incremental financial return on the combined mine and power unit
investments is based on the revenues from incremental power sales arising from
the mine and power developments and the capita:L and operating costs of the
mine expansion and Power Units 5-7. The cost of lignite production is handled
in the calculation as a fuel cost to the power plants. The return on the
combined investment is 12%, indicating the financial viability of the second
stage of EGAT's power development investments at Mae Moh.
Economic Benefits and Risks
88.       The economic rate of return on the proposed project has been ana-
lyzed in two separate ways: (i) on an incremental basis in similar manner to
the financial return, but omitting t:axes, duties and royalties from the cal-
culations, and (ii) on a substitution basis, where the relative benefits and
costs of the proposed mine and power development are compared to a coastal
power plant burning imported coal under the assumption that a 450 MW coal-
fired plant would substitute for the combined mine and power investment in
Units 5-7. The latter analysis assumes an f.o.b. international price for coal
of $48 (in 1983 real terms) per tonne when production commences in 1985. This
is based on recent Australian quotes and is escalated in real terms by 1% per
annum through 1990.
89.       On an incremental basis, the economic rates of return are relatively
high. On the mine expansion alone, the return is 17%, and on the mine and
power developments together, the return is 14%. The return on substitution is
14% compared to the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Thailand of
12%. This confirms the results of the economic analysis of lignite prices
which shows the cost of substitution to be about the same as the costs of the
proposed project (para. 49).
90.       Under assumptions on coal prices used in the rate of return calcula-
tions, net foreign exchange savings resulting from reduced coal imports would
average $42 million per year in 1983 terms, taking into account the impact of
debt service.
91.       The proposed project would provide for technology transfer through
technical assistance and training at the mine site and would strengthen the
institutional aspects of the power utility through proposed managerial changes
and related training. Despite its capital-intensive nature, the proposed
project would provide some increase in economic activity in the remote
northern region of Thailand through the anticipated increase in staff at Mae
Moh and the employment of local contractors for overburden removal.



- 23 -
92.       Overall, there is relatively little risk associated with the pro-
posed project. There is some risk in implementation plans associated with the
large overburden contract which EGAT has let, although this would be minimized
through a re-evaluation of the contract in 1987 and firm supervision
(para. 70). There is also risk of delay in completion of Power Units 5-7,
though sensitivity tests show that a full year's delay, which is unlikely,
would reduce the financial and economic returns only marginally.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
93.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Electricity
Generating Authority of Thailand, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Kingdom of Thailand and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Features of the Loan
Agreement which are referred to in the text are listed in Section III of Annex
III. A condition of effectiveness would be that all conditions precedent to
the effectiveness of the KfW Loan Agreement and the ADAB Financial Arrange-
ments (other than, if applicable, the effectiveness of the Bank Loan Agreement)
have been fulfilled (Section 7.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
94.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
95.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 27, 1984
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 24 -                                         Page 1 of 5
THAILAND                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960-        197Gb  ESTIMATE-            ASIA & PACIFIC         LAT. AMERICA & CAR1B
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KH)
TOTAL                                  514.0        514.0        514.0
AGRICULTURAL                           129.5        141.2        182.8
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      110.0        250.0        770.0               1028.6                     2088.2
ENERGY CONSUEPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          63.0        216.0       3170.0                792.8                     1407.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   27039.0         36431.0      47966.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)           12.5         13,2         14.6                 32.9                       65.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                  68.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                   108.8
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                   2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 104.                          52.6         70.9         91.3               260.7                        35.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND               208.8>       258.1        256.9              1696.5                        93.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                             44.7         46.2         41.2                39.4                        40.1
15-64 YRS                             52.6         50.8         55.7                57.2                        55.U
65 AND ABOVE                           2.7          3.0          3.1                  3.3                        4.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                  2.7          3.0          2.5                  2.3                        2.3
URBAN                                  4.5          3.5          3.4                  3.9                        3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)            43.6         39.7         29.5                 31.3                       31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)            14.9         10.8          7.6                  9.6                        8.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.1          2.8          1.9                  2.0                        2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)               ..        202.9/c    1063.3
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..          7.6         59.0                46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                           92.0        100.0        137.0                L25.2                      LL3.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)          99.0        101.0        104.0                114.2                      111.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS0 PER DAY)             45.0         49.0         47.0                 57.9                       67.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            11.0         14.0         15.0/d               14.1                       34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE             13.3          7.9          4.3                  7.6                        5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)           52.3         57.9         63.1                 60.2                       64.6
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)          1.03.0        74.6         53.1                 68.1                       62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                   ..         17.0         22.0/e              37.1                        64.8
URBAN                                   ..         60.0         49 .07e              54.8                       77.8
RURAL                                   ..         10.0         12.0/e               26.4                       44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..         17.0         40.0/f               41.4                       34.6
URBAN                                   ..         65.0         58d.77               47.5                       69.8
RURAL                                   ..          8.0         36.077               33.4                       29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              7950.0       8450.0       7180.0               7771.9                     1776.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON               4860.0/&    7050.0        2420.0               2462.6                     1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               1380.0        900.0        820.0/e             1047.2                      477.0
URBAN                                270.0+       180.0        530.07e              651.1                      667.5
RURAL                             21530.0       13880.0       1280.07             2591.9                      1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..         31.0         44.8/e               27.0                       27.2
HOUSING
NVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  5 5/         5.8          5.5/e
URBAN                                  5-37         5.8          5. 57...
RURAL                                  5.6jj        5.8          5.5/e
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..           ..2.4/e
URBAN                                   ..           ..          2.27e
RURAL                                   ..           ..          2.4e.
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..         18.9
URBAN                                   .,         86.1
RURAL                                   ..          9.0



ANNEX I
- 25 -                                        Page 2 of 5
THAILAND                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
1960/b  1970/b  RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960/b-     1970/b  ESTIMATE.Lb         ASIA & PACIFIC         LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     83.0         83.0         96.0               101.2                      105.0
MALE                     88.0         86.0           ..                106.0                     106.3
FEMILE                    79.0        79.0           ..                 97.5                     103.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     13.0         17.0         29.0                44.9                       40.0
MALE                      16.0        20.0           ..                 50.0                      38.6
FEMALE                   10.0         15.0           ..                44.6                       41.2
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)             19.1        22.3         15.5                 18.5                      34.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              36.0         35.0         24.0                32.7                       30.7
SECONDARY                            20.0         16.0         23.0/d              23.4                       16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                67.7         78.6         86.0                72.9                       79.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             1.8          5.1          6.3/e               9.7                       45.6
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP            6.0         76.2        125.9               113.7                      228.2
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               2.2           6.6        17.3                50.1                      108.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION               10.6         20.5         42.3                54.0                       64.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           ..         1.8/h         ..                 3.4                        2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TdOUS)           13860.0      1.6987.0     23037.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     48.4         46.8         45.9                33.6                       24.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                84.0         80.0         76.0                50.9                       31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    4.U          6.0          9.0                19.2                       23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                51.3         46.6         48.0                38.6                       31.3
MALE                                 52.7         49.3         51.7                50.7                       49.8
FEMALE                               49.8         43.9         44.3                26.6                       14.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDEdCY RATIO               0.9          1.1          0.9                 1.1                        1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGiEST 55 OF HOUSEHOLDS             21.8/        23.8/i       23.0/e              22.2
HIGILEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS           50.97j.      49.77?       49.87;e             48.0
LOWEST 20% OF HiOUSEHOLDS             6.27j        6.17?        5.67e               6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHlOLDS            14.9/g       15.97?       15.27e              15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..          ..        159.0/j             194.5                      289.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..        106.07              155.0                      184.5
-ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..        115. 0/j            17B.0                      519.8
RURAL                                   ..          ..        110.07              164.6                      372.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOM-E LEVEL (X)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         15. 0/j             24.4
RURAL                                  *-           *-         34-°7               41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate` between 1979 and 1981.
/c  Government program only; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f 1975; /g 1962; /h 1973; /i 1968; /j 1978.
May 1983



ANNEXi
-26-                                                                                     Page 3 of 5
OtYtNVlONS OSF S500151 MtCATCtlit
1ate-    lAttasa    tIe a-  araarca-1h 0   ott fttrl-                <      lthe ntat   atrlat    andl "I'll        a, It tosl  alt  Ft natl that FhIFy s-   a   eItaotta
atearlhatasaa atnogntad,  111>0tkMo   a  o   oArrl   _oraSr                         Y.a altrra    I-tto -rrasrttaat.
Itt Fatatasatdtaolo  ate    0tho clot tasatt gas-   attoaahjtoatssoa  r toO  ill a  aaartta groa  tltla  aotttltt higtoattaado  loose  t -t-tart oo...a -FO   a-Tt.
Tat     ......at AI_       _ta     saIrot   1  Ottao ars   h t   ndl  lct    orhIFt  tond,ettactlttIaaa    fatattatSOlal
VRlllt)  tSatatrr A F0  dt'-argaIotpleltolFt    ttaadraat    ltaiea  aca a --ha:t att -eotoyS   i    gtApore   to a
grap  as  Ita  ott.ttInIstF    tao   t    -sr-            tcsrte    trgteldtltr   eed A> i >t o"Ica ..oSlyadtld   tnt IIot,taIO st
Oa rtodItttt lg  oraetsItc  taasra   otht.naoactlt  aO   ry   tas   r  atatld   t  o. t-tOt  clOa                    bFaataraea  te   laty   o
ttlctttte  grachy-,-t
AS0  llotld   o.t.?a~lFla St  lIelte-tpoatanIlAd  It-  ...hr I t ptha.                                                                                                         o
tota  -  oca  ea lae  oostaptStig  lts  tacataSa.lad.cattt  - l ,p>  etrlat900F Fad  rota sOIcl shoa  Itsa-treap  coe
.900toO   991   ata                                                         totSarcr a FacalatPaton -Papaatto   dIlledby othe  ad   rartalt
al attl-Cttla FlO>tr..ae   odFtoar  5a   oFlet !eS   t    tet  rdlO   set  lttattee                                                                                 eltoltte   a
tar araa, Pleeoet , artOt 10  attalr gatitl or toSIt StIts;  lIA,-,j                   rareSt14abyl larIa
1179n  l18  daa.POaSt arct  htttl-ed-  otl,.llao,te    OrS    tpoatta  (atl
0915, 1900, ard  19&  data,                                                                   ilseSaaetsae_ pAaI  ld PIcn.            __tllhaea  pRM ala    raoal    stl
196n, 070. -4 Im. Z-         ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~Io rtna tcltal  Fta lepeat  hate, oaol hoArLa
195   O.Aril          YIdtaLArat IaL tal  trlldai. SIte prlaalael.gaaal  hasttlai ta!                                                                                         trt
Tatol FcOSatloa. Il-Salt Itootoeda  A  at at Sly 1; 1960, SI?.., -rd  SIgll                    llettOFNlte   a II                 otol~ -atla   at deleot  oa              hr
aeto.                                                                                             Frat Oteyl_   .   VP-!  .,taila dillldad y IIt  O   boloFldA. 
Fatal poyclattre lay ago trdate and oralttattltt   A51 trelt                                  daral         Ic      eAthob   yarpatat
tlta.It  Oalo poaaaa   tt attl tttata  ataie   t  t rt                                OtaaOalttoFtttaaapttoca    tta. alaa.at  trtSeotagtaolA
Silaal pot taoor   CSt PIoao-ty  St   -Ido acatg  adcta   htna                                   oortoa    t:lt   Staraat    oIoa                            teaa
elol  hr hlt   rote  St a~sal Fo Flat death ro a, toO      b aLtoaE Iartl
ulets    tttrool"se  ttta   10,ldttFs  at                   , ~    arLctarar ht adsaa   10   atttt l   I  -y It-gah    at                                      ..a..aootat   a
tarall tar tata  SoFepItototot latal... .t.....                                              Flaty  Ith.. otsra..a..        Itt  etolatt  ayet -a  A&ll prro
popohalt-     etatl 011~9I lao r   -ttt.    T              -                                            lasot,-t ta thoa      sa  sl  t..   taI tle  11    -Ype       ds thos      . .....a
roth   tal;1980  190. la  lId   data.                                                                                              "IltatItof1   sS   ea  atdloralsdaeota    t
ha  o  lo 9dtt,tse    to       orsa   I   b..Stt9Sstoa   an                                         eatl1  tao laded-- ,
0018   IlSt      0 ahISdt.lcotaa    aolatItaF    Ftoadt-       OIltltttatt
ISooetlt ag  taactot Srrottl   Il-i-t-   Inl>taoe- otalttg   1SSf Sa2>a tcho7l ytolatl  at othe A roras  e,,Attd oetaSald
Si par  0, lad 0 reSaI 1    etd        aoaaptatgaPtadya                                              sIr  ot   taaetlttaFe5  latt.t...
CoatehcI.te  (et. ehoaTaI_    'rIc:lS   ttapa   rc,t   tad
teat Otolaattt;  .96,  1900  Ond 1057,P date.                                               lSStOtt-11y1ld,d  y   .-."  I
yopolacet;  .10,  593,  aad5911 dal,                                                        cat tastog les  thaI _tlat  teatac dao bat  tah-tatas, laltta  rr
Cao   rpaotta   o-t-Atra    r`,l-e aS1 Iadttlsla   tSOl   rtltaretlt
ha    tllottdatc    eIc    taatrrtrr    tto   ogasyt Sia                                        aata  roaser  Itatthctld  otl   a I                                       .d ra  a   aeot  -totCot
datt al  ttr    atllh-tld)traa    IItt -t  bitad tro St....t?,  SS"  tadlaadettodralSalsoetoadatpoats   aS tar
0-1.I                                                                                                                                                            Y_ttarotar    sootttta   atasaa  ra_tr  la4 tttl
otla Fl-oaea  daa7   -Z                 Ade   to-  lrbot ....oa   Sall  potodaastaaIoSet   Slatt
pratrac,                                                                                        to. bV  .     -  N tacecar  (otaaot  d  aaa to      V   tloastt  e oAt taCV
tel    laoa-tr   scte    Sorad  ttrI-Prcnata   at  0                                                        reo   rI  rpetlata    aaIt  a     sloa    r  oaad0   aorr
oooat a  oitldraerln  aga 01-to  cto SIns   act     erca,a   loott                             OOoSt  iIntaoaa    actarta   St   asttt   aet
Il  tlOtoao   S  ta  1t  OO.ida  Or  ca  aco   rt  roasatoaatal    Ios  StaIfg
FOsS 5.5 SIFaIIOt                                                                               OS rtlaa -ar 0~  ala Ia dntral S rartsarats taaeta6  aSafioadac-a reool 501
Instocttab   otoa>ta    < ly5LasS.aS~;  ; - :-ta.S  praa.tO                               a,Olltaaat osi-rad  -rlatrI. t., earLng oroall                           PIa, Scetaa tt
daae.                                                     toSO POOCh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Id..   .
eaoot.td ot-," tattaht oplo    Old  atth-lhoat                                                      attlla    IO    90ld Ill, date.
It latallad   eati  lItalta   59A tad19    aa                                                         t   iattly,etttdoea    eaelta  tatat d Sal- aa    lt
poSs  trtt,a   hi     Ceoa   ttda   ata    rsS,    asIS_10,ld16  data    mea  Itstast   It lI rt-pet Sclp htt  Ftte
darlA-iIFboe a-tal  aL- pa tt        -aCltt per da; SIt-It,.900 ad  IIt
data.                                                                                   IdlIll 5t919111fl10da- J~-  I--      twdnA
atI  IPI160   95  r   91   aa,t   lde  ItrrIS ctl   Otlettadbdte
Sa    III Ltrt  StI . b15  traatrO   -atrl   aclta  Stataale  actaSattglclIetotes  aat  lsS   il rtratel-Ittt a  treb
yaso at age pee   96cs 65a lae Soothe  19cC, 11-0 ar   91cl,Mcaeyctt   taoL.PSt   itSooolsllla  to       t
abat  oFlet  Waer  taractoP  acalataal-  Ista         ltt, t  rtl  -                               97t e-on Sty slrA-a  PtIto  eeF  e   ta  tod-tarttat                         a
talt  CtcaaSttl  ate,dt rzllthra    el,llasrlt                                                        Calbe
cpl   oaldetele    ataeOtrsa   oratdlstLastt   aeSo Lto   tae  aOI115attahe     oktld  oe 
seoa tttrtraeltt ba -aa t          , atoo  ptteo At P id laO f_e,  pog   otd                    Ssrol etattpao pSot   ta   s  satSdOate aprayt
eletay  ttelItseastaat  f  ttr   altotratoslttct   S  t                                     paretallctea'h  sotty                   t,O   ta    t  aledtt  aa   o
.raclere  att    IaCnatt ela              -Yl lo ltd et- sata. thf  -200 attAa                vatatlttao    o    tlr   otO    et   eatelt
ottbart ad., hd     h -tool  do1-5 raa     0 ha Aetold   tPtpcotoaett 
tha  ay S  teahIngItsFItYttla aR altar tarOt                                                                                                                                 I
rtioltead" al-tlot Sartal  ottftS             MDe190  b198d5



-27  -                                                          ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
Population        49,000 (mid-1982, thousands)
GNP per Capita, US$800 (1982)
TRAILAND - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at             Average annual increase (X)                     Share of GDP at market prices (X)
current prices)                 (at constant prices)                              (at current prices)
Indicator                       1982 /a      1960-70  1970-75  1975-80  1980-85/b  1985-90/b   1960         1970     1975      1980     198951
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product       36,782           8.4       6.3      7.6        5.6        5.9      100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculture                 8,206           5.5       5.3      3.2        3.8        3.5       39.8      28.3     31.5      26.2     22.5
Industry                   13,048          11.5       7.8     11.4        8.0        6.4       18.7     25.3      24.8     27.5      28.0
Services                   15,535           9.0       7.1      7.9        6.4        6.9       41.5     46.4      43.7     46.3      49.5
Consumption                  28,939           7.3       7.0      7.5        4.5        5.5       85.7      78.7     79.3      78.3     77.0
Gross investment              7,729          15.8       3.8      8.2        4.0        5.8       15.7      26.2     25.4      27.9     24.3
Exports of GNFS               9,166          10.5       3.6     13.4        6.9        7.5       17.4      16.7     19.1      25.0     24.8
Imports of GNFS               9,208          13.9       3.7     10.5        2.8        6.1       18.9      21.5     23.7      31.1     25.9
Gross national savings        7,296          13.7       4.1      5.5        6.3         7.6      14.1      21.5     20.7      20.7     21.2
Composition of merchandise trade (2)
(at current prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985/b  199T/b
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports           6,948           5.5       9.0     14.4        9.5        7.5      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0
Primary                     4,757           4.2       6.6     10.0        7.8        4.0       97.8   80.5   77.3   60.2   54.6    46.4
Manufactures                2,190          29.2      20.9     25.1       12.5        10.2       2.2   19.5   22.7   39.8   45.4    53.6
Merchandise imports           8,548          11.5       3.3     10.8        4.4         6.0     100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0
Food                          244           4.3     -2.7      11.9        6.1        6.0        9.6    5.4    4.4    3.4    3.8       3.5
Petroleum                   2,639          11.8       5.0      8.7      -3.0         3.4       10.9    8.8   22.1   31.4   23.4    20.0
Machinery & equipment       2,412          16.1       5.9      7.4        8.0        7.0       25.3   36.1   35.8   23.5   28.4    29.0
Others                      3,253          10.1       1.0      9.3        5.0        7.0       54.2   49.7   37.7   41.7   44.4    47.5
1975      1976       1977      1978       1979       1980      1981       1982/a
P RICES
GDP deflator                                       100.0     103.3      112.1     121.8      136.9      154.0     167.1      175.1
Exchange rate                                      20.4       20.4       20.4      20.3       20.3      20.5       21.82      23.0
Export price index                                 100.0      97.3       99.4     107.4      128.3      151.7     151.8      136.5
Import price index                                100.0      105.5      113.4     122.3      141.4     175.6      201.1     211.4
Terms of trade index                               100.0      92.2       87.6      87.8       90.8      86.4       75.5       64.6
As % of GDP
1960           1970           1975          1980          1982 /a
PUBLIC FINANCE /c                                                                    --__
Current revenues                                     13.6          13.8            13.2          14.0          13.5
Current expenditures                                 10.6          12.6            11.8         13.5           14-6
Surplus (+) or-deficit (-)                          +3.0           +1.2            +1.4         +0.5           -l.r
Capital expenditure                                   4.3           5.8             3.4           3.9           4.1
Foreign financing                                     0.2           0.1             0.1           0.2           0.1
1960-70        1970-75         1975-80         1980-85 /b        1985-90 /b
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (X)                         8.4             6.2             6.9             5.5               5.9
GNP per capita growth rate (X)              5.2             3.4             4.4             3.4               3.8
ICOR                                        2.8             4.0             3.4             4.4               4.0
Marginal savings rate                       0.29            0.23            0.21            0.23              0.26
Import elasticity                           1.7             0.6             1.3             1.1               1.0
/a Preliminary.
/b Projected.
/c Central government only.
February 29, 1984



ANNEX I
=> *)                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 5 of 5
Population     : 49,000 (mid-1982, thouands)                               -  28  -
ON? par Capita: US$800 (1982)
TAILAND - BLCE OW PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Million7 US$ at current prices)
Actual    -                                 Est.        Projected
Indicator                        1970    1976    1977    1978    1979   1T80    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and nonf actor
services                                1,108   3.490   4,029   4,976   6,456   8,191   8,971   9,206   9,300  11,086  12,869  14,826  25,095
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.             686   2.959   3,454   4,045   5,234   6,449   6,884   6,948   6,400   8,341   9,633  10,993  16,352
Imports of goods and nonfactor
services                               -1,430  -3.892  -5,068  -5,894  -8,123  -9,990 -10,713  -9,406 -10,700 -12,043 -13,478 -15,261 -24,822
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.          -1,148  -3,145  -4,247  -4,913  -6,787  -8,352  -8,930  -8,548  -8,981 -10,118 -11,336 -12,850 -22,669
Net faictor income from abroad               23      -62      -99    -266    -480    -610    -998  -1,034  -1,200  -1,227  -1,364  -1,497  -1,980
Net transfers                                49       23       40      40       60      188      132     149      300      379     401      440      710
CurrecLt account balance                   -250    -440  -1,097  -1,153  -2,086  -2,223  -2,608  -1,086  -2,300  -1,805  -1,572  -1,492    -997
Private direct inveotment                    43       79      106       50      51      1S7     292      183      344      248     272      299      438
MLT loans (net)                               32     248      346     670   1,418   1,665   1,631   1,332   1,073   2,029   1,948   1,932   1,368
Official                                   21      109     181      290      488     569      621      715   1,237   1,804   1,967   1,666   1,311
Private /a                                 10      139      165     380      930   1,0916   1,010      617    -164      224      -19      256       56
Other capital /b                             93      219      740     782   1,160        -5   1,286      299      283     -68    -240    -257       -39
Change! in reserves                          82      -96     -95    -349    -543        366    -601    -130       600    -404    -408    -482    -770
(- indicates increase)
International reserves                      906   2,113   2,208   2,557   3,100   2,734   3,335   3,465   2,865   3,090   3,494   3,976   5,801
Reserves as months imports                    8        7        5       5        5        3        4       4        3        3       3        3        3
EXTERNAI, CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Diabursements
Concessional loans                         11       52      78      153      242     230      223      214     504      638      747     686      700
DAC                                      11       45      50       86      178     176      189      152     431      567      694      654     698
IDA                                       -        7       9        5        4       5       21       19      18       15       10        5       0
Other                                     -        -      19       62       60      49       13       43      55       56       43       27       2
Nonconcessional loans                     188      467     585   1,133   1,816   2,154   2,028   1,912   1,520   2,506   2,618   3,034   4,017
Official export credits                   7        -      32        -        -        3      80      152     184      206      272     333      457
1iBRD                                    19      43       65      103      139     143      289      370     306      341      407     467      604
Other multilateral                        2       46      33       46       36      E3       64      101     212      225      312     385      457
Piivate publicly guaranteed              17      101     106      411      842     898      805      582     361      707      634     384      310
Private nonguaranteed                   143     277      349      573      799   1,017      790      707     439   1,027       993   1,465   2,189
Total gross disbursements                 199      519     663   1,286   2,058   2,3f4   2,251   2,127   2,025   3,144   3,364   3,720   4,717
External Debt (fixed-term)
Public d1b outstanding &
disbursed                                 328      823   1,119   1,820   2,832   4,128   5,169   6,206   7,670   9,210  10,848  12,150  16,187
Official                                291     672      895   1,254   1,671   2,315   2,843   3,295   4,699   6,046   7,677   9,077  13,428
Private                                  37      151     224      566   1,161   1,813   2,326   2,911   2,971   3,165   3,171   3,073   2,759
Private nonguaranteed debt
outstanding and disbursed               382      785     880      931   1,243   1,703   2,099   2,317   1,533   2,022   2,332   2,962   5,485
Total debt outstanding and
disbursed                               710   1,608   1,999   2,751   4,075   5,831   7,268   8,523   9,203  11,232  13,180  15,112  21,672
Undisbursed debt                          118      840   1,364   1,899   2,361   3,0C4   3,081   3,582   3,586   3,530   3,220   3,028   3,996
Debt Service
Total service payments                    162      378     442      812      962   1,224   1,325   1,497   1,703   1,897   2,334   2,838   4,914
Interest                                 16      107     126      196      322     505      686      703     753      782      918   1,049   1,565
Payments as 2 exports of goods and    14.6    10.8    11.0    16.3    14.9    15.4    15.6    16.3    18.3    17.1    18.1    19.1    19.6
nonfactor services
Averg  e interest rate on new loans
TIT   c                                     6.8      7.8      7.0     6.8      7.6      9.3    10.2      9.5      9.5      9.5     9.6      9.6      9.6
OfTicial                                  6.8      7.9     6.1      5.6      3.4     6.8      7.4      6.9        -       -        -        -       -
Private                                   6.0      7.3     8.3      8.9    10.5    13.8    13.8    11.9           -       -        -        -       -
Averase maturity of new loans
(Years) /c                                 18.9    17.3    14.5    17.1    17.0    16.6    16.7    17.3    17.3    15.8    14.4    13.3    13.0
officifl&                                19.4    20.6    19.6    21.1    2:2.4    21.1    22.4    22.5            -       -        -        -       -
Private                                  11.2      7.3     7.9      9.4    10.0       8.6     9.3    10.3         -       -        -        -       -
Bank Group Zxwsure (X)
I!RD DOD/total DOD                       22.6    18.6    17.3    15.8    13.6    11.6    12.9    15.6    16.6    16.1    16.2    16.5    17.7
IBBD disbursements/total gross
disbursements                           9.5     8.3    10.0       8.6      7.0     6.1    13.0    24.7    15.1    10.8    12.1    12.6    12.8
IBltD debt service/total debt
service                                11.1     9.6    10.0       6.8      6.9     6.5      6.8      7.5     9.9    10.6    10.7    11.1    11.9
IDA DOD/total DOD                           -      0.7      1.0     0.9      0.7     0.6      0.7      0.8     0.9      0.9      0.9     0.8      0.5
IDA disbursemant/total gross
disbursements                             -      1.3     1.3      0.4    (0.2      0.2      0.9      1.0     0.8      0.6      0.4     0.1      0.0
IDA debt service/total debt
service                                   -     0.0      0.0      0.0      ().0    0.3      0.2      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
As % of debt outstanding
at end of 1981
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Principal due within 5 years                                                              48.4
Principal due within 10 years                                                             71.4
Inteirest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                            11.2
/a  Due to change in classification, projected data for "private MLT loans" include  some of the category "other capital".
7S  "Other capital" includes net use of IMF funds and not flov of short-terni capital.
7H Historical data does not include nonguaranteed private debt.
7   Preliminary.
February 29, 1984



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STAIUS OF BANK GRfUP OPERAIIONS IN THAILAND
A. STAMM1EME  OF RANK ILANS AND IDA CREDITS /a
(As of September 30, 1983)
Amount ($ million)
Loan or                                                           Less Cancellations
Credit                                                       Bank          IDA     Undis-
Number Year       Borrower                   Purpose                               bursed
Thirty-eight loans and three credits fuUly disbursed      1,092.69       31.74
1149    1975  Kingdom of Thailand           Irrigation       95.00         -        18.75
1198T   1976  Kingdom of Thailand           Rural Dev.       21.00(TW)     -         1.33
1271    1976  Kingdom of Thailand           Education        26.30         -         2.48
1393    1977  Kingdom of Thailand          Agriculture       28.00         -         0.92
1468    1977  Kingdom of Thailand           Irrigation       55.00         -         9.09
767    1978  Kingdom of Thailand          Population                    33.10/b     6.75
1519    1978  Kingdom of Thailand          Highvays         102.60         -         3.31
1527    1978  Provincial Electricity        Rural Elect.     25.00         -         0.93
Authority
1556    1978  Kingdom of Thailand           Housing           8.60         -         4.01
1620    1978  Telephone Organization of   Telecom.           90.00         -        49.84
Thailand
1630    1978  Kingdom of Thailand           Irrigation       17.50         -         9.67
1638    1979  Kingdon of Thailand          Urban Trans.      16.00         -        10.76
1662    1979  State Railway of Thailand    Railways          16.70         -         8.06
1690    1979  Electricity Generating       Pawer             80.00         -        32.92
Authority of Thailand
913    1979  Kingdom of Thailand           Education          -         35.00      14.53
929    1979  Kingdom of Thailand           Agriculture        -         25.00      16.72
1752    1979  Kingdom of Thailand          Ag. Extension    40.00          -        22.68
1770    1980  Electricity Generating        Power            80.00         -         6.54
Authority of Thailand
1773    1980  Petroleum Authority of        Natural Gas     107.00/c       -         0.49
Thailand                     Pipelines
1787    1980  Kingdom of Thailand           Irrigation       80.00         -        62.42
1816    1980  Kingdom of Thailand          Ag. Credit        19.00         -         3.04
1852    1980  Electricity Generating        Power            72.00         -        21.26
Authority of Thailand
1863    1980   Provincial Waterworks       Water Supply      40.00         -        37.21
Authority



- 30
ANNEK II
Page 2 of 3
Amomt ($ million)
Loan or                                                           Less Cancellations
Credit                                                       Bank          IDA      Undis-
Number Year       Borrower                    Purpose                               bursed
1870    1980  Kingdam of Thailand           Hhiusing         29.00         -         21.80
1871    1980   Provincial Electricity       Riural Elec:tri-   75.00       -         60.70
Authority                    fication
1889    1980   Kingdom of Thailand           EnLand Waterways 53.00        -         44.75
1918    1980  Kingdcom of Thailand          Ports            47.00         -         45.73
1922    1980   Kingdom of Thailand          Ag. Research     30.00          -        29.59
1947    1981   Kingdom of Thailand          Potash            8.90          -         4.02
Fngineering
1956    1981   Industrial Finance Corp.    Inlustry          30.00         -          2.04
of Thailand
2000    1981   Electricity Generating       Pcwer           100.00          -        96.60
Authority of Thailand
2022    1981   Kingdom of Thailand          Inr-igation      57.00          -        52.12
2035    1981   Kingdom of Thailand          Provincial. Roads 35.00        -         18.52
2078    1982   Kingdom of Thailand          Tree crope;     142.00         -        112.89
2143    1982   Telephone Organization       Telec.rmni-    142.10          -        135.11
of Thailand                  cations
2178    1982   Kingdom of Thailand          Edhcation        75.00         -         73.71
2184    1982   Petroleum Authority of       Liquified Petro- 90.00         -         84.72
Thailand                     Leum Gas
2198    1982   Kingdom of Thailand          Agriculture      17.00          -        17.00
2310    1983   Bank for Agriculture &       Agr-iculture     70.00         -         70.00
Cooperatives /d
2311    1983   Kingdom of Thailand /d       Prov. Roacds    100.00          -       100.00
2312    1983   Provincial Electricity       Roral Elec-      30.60         -         30.60
Authority /d                 trification
Total                                                3,243.99       124.84   1,343.62
of which has been repaid                             339.02         2.97
Total now outstanding                                2,904.97       121.87
Amount sold /e                          68.63
of which has been repaid              55.42           13.21
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       2,891.76       121.87
Total undisbursed                                    1,305.62        38.00   1,343.62
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is des;cribed in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Emxmetive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b  Of which $3.1 million is Norwegian grant participation.
7Tc Includes refinancing of Loan S-10-TH ($4.9 million).
77 Not yet effective.
/e Of which $43.3 million. sold to the Bank of Thailand.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
(As of September 30, 1983)
Amounts ($ million)
Year               Company               Type of Business          Loan   Equity  Total
1959      Concrete Products and       Cement and Construc-         0.30     -        0.30
Aggregate Co., Ltd.         tion Materials
1964/     Industrial                  Development Finance           -      0.39      0.39
1970        Finance Corporation         Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/     Siam Cement Group           Cement and Construc-
1975/                                    tion Materials          28.33    4.24    32.57
1978/1979
1977      Mutual Fund Company         Money and Capital
Limited                    Market                      -      0.29      0.29
1977      United Sugar Terminal       Food and Food
Limited                     Processing                2.50    0.20      2.70
1978      Siam Commercial Bank        Small and Medium
Scale Industries          2.00     -        2.00
1979/     Bangkok Glass Industry    Glass Containers               9.85    0.45    10.30
1980/       Company, Limited
1979/     Siam City Cement            Cement and Construc-
1981        Co. Ltd.                    tion materials           63.00    4.00    67.00
1979      Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.                 Capital Market                -      0.15      0.15
1983      Sea Minerals Limited        Mining                       -       0.33      0.33
Total gross commitments                               105.98   10.05   116.03
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                              71.14    3.04    74.18
Net held by the corporation                            34.84    7.01    41.84
Total undisbursed                                      17.59             17.59



- 32 -                           ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
THAILAND
SECOND MAE MOH LIGNITE PROJECT
Supplementary Timetable of Key Events
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:             6 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                           Consultants, EGAT
(c)  First presented to the Bank:                   July 1982
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:                January 1983
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:                    February 1984
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                 July 1984
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
(a) None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Agreements were reached with the Borrower:
(i) on pricing arrangements for lignite (para. 50);
(ii) on achieving a minimum 8% rate of return on revalued assets,
with quarterly reviews of tariffs, and maintaining a fuel cost
variation charge in its tariff schedule (para. 57);
(iii) on debt control covenants previously established with the Bank
(para. 57);
(iv) on operating its mining activities as Mine Accounting Centers
and maintaining separate, audited accounts and financial
statements for the Lignite Mine! Department (para. 59);
(v) on the study of mine slope stability at Mae Moh (para. 69);
(vi) on assessment of the costs and benefits of the overburden
removal contract (para. 70);
(vii) on the preparation and implemen,tation of financial and
technical training programs (para. 73);



ANNEX III
- 33 -                           Page 2 of 2
(viii)  on environmental standards with respect to land reclamation,
air and water qualiLty (para. 74);
(ix) on project management and implementation arrangements
(para. 76);
(x) on use of lignite from the proposed mine expansion for power
generation exclusively (para. 80).
(xi) on debt limitation covenants for the Lignite Mine Department
(para. 85); and
(b) Agreements were reached with the Government:
(i) on the electricity sector-s achieving a minimum rate of return
of 8% on revalued assets (para. 57);
(ii) on the provision of funds to meet cost overruns or shortfalls
in financing necessary for completion of the project
(para. 80).



I



OUD DAM ,                                   -/-.                      LAO  PEOPLE'S DEMOCRAT.C                                                  T
A  145M                          Ph                                                   REPUBLIC
VA   0H    r       Na-                                      NAM  N0UM  DAM
soCh-gnamai                  57MW  oo                                                       Ultimat  Cop 135 MW
Se 5                                                   lt,iiaI~~~J30 MW
31RIKIT/0DAM         >.ŽI1 "
LI oa I                                                 -PAadI ~   _    MONg
V           S/tOM/SQ~~~L DA.M    AGas~5M                                         ~,   hwiNce15M             _____SltOk
42 TMI--      trh                               '                                       AMPLCaA
PIt lear/ak              -        II~      P      h"---
-           T. o                                                                                       NAiMKamphacrigM                Thompet/
41                                          "L_                                         C.,Ehtir-  .6rieat --o
A-L
-15'  ~        ~         ,1OrND-                           -        gauri                                                                     5 >  INDI-0O DMi                      ~1
A11inttr Csp 725M                 ~iiTih                                       Nakh-r R-t tsm                                   Cap', M
Karrherai,ot~~~~~'Njl          -70MW /h                                                          THAILAND
\NS>500tPc9a2        '~ot/,rhit                      /  aECTWCITY GEOtATWIG AUTlHORITY OF THAILAND
No/tier    ThONRUR CEihcet.... .                                    MAE MOH LIGNITE PROJECT
Potchoh,  5~aipt sanshrao > Ch-ro                                            ptorot-rtio                         Lignite Mines
Mae Mol Lign,ite Mic
A     al     7 i         .   R9NC KRACHAN-DAM             Ehehop   N                                                     ____                                         230 KV  Trasmssion Lines
oman                 ~~~~~~Cop N9 MW1f              ICER         a                                                                __                    115 KV  Tran,smissin Lins
Sea         I          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                       ¼             - ~~~~~~~~~~~230 KV  Sojbstations
A~~~~ P-b-  ~ ~   ~        ~       ~      ~       AA                                          115 KV  Sobsatwi-n
a                                           69 KV  Sabstatian
o                              ~~~~~~~hedro   Power  Plants
Prorlioep (Rio                                                                     Sijoplear~~~~~~~~~N...  Power Plant
/  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e-lBoundaries
2                                                -              -           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Interntional Boondanies
/                                                                                       2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0  ITT      200
/ Sno                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
IT-                                                                        j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NL.,RT   0
SURAT TH-ANI 
T.k-o Po.          aaon
CHiEC LArN PncioooN Coo.S,TMh-r.I
DIEPOOTO ROUNaun RYnt
I 1                          T6ooor                                                                                  
0-   et22onti.teLsiAjee~                                                                       - ~L
7     07ee-P lH.,,WSTATIO
nap- -         rd inROPOSnEDsp
lO-i  - s   radahaaiWqda B..of                       -as-'aNte                                                          T045ENCENTE
zoieor_anorlc P2015MW                                                                                                   0~N
rradnraaOo rooloooeT'torE'ip  N ~   ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~HOSIG  RE
000 1W   00 o,,  no   oo
parrot1 TOe Wa.. 13.O and We
itlrnarooal Eseon Caoio1aEoo.                                     PO~~~~~~~~~~j  TTANII-
otdoiiaomii 01 actn,Iaoce 01         (e~~~~~~~~~~~~~j~~f\JMAEMOH MINE AREA                                                                            
-ortomp__e                                              Tooe                          ALAYSIA






