OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS          LOAN NUMBER 2407 TH
Guarantee Agreement
(Second Mae Moh Lignite Project)
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                           , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2407 TR
GUARANTEE AGEEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   "YLglVtaA                  , 1984, between
KINGDOM  OF  THAILAND   (hereinafter  called  the  Guarantor) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
(hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to
the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to fifty-
nine million one hundred thousand dollars ($59,100,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations
of the Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, without limitation or restriction


﻿-2-
upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement,
the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary
obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the
punctual performance of all the other obligations of the
Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be inade-
quate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the
Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet
such expenditures until the Completion Date.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 3 -
(b)  The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien aris-
ing in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Gua-
rantor.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a)   the Guarantor shall from time to time take all such
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of electricity tariffs of the utilities in
the Guarantor's Electricity Sector) as shall be required to pro-
duce for the said Sector as a whole annual rates of return of not
less than 8% as of FY 1984 and in each Fiscal Year thereafter
on the average current net value of the Sector's fixed assets in
service.
(b) for the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated by
dividing the Sector's net operating income for the
Fiscal Year in question by one-half of the sum of
the current net value of the Sector's fixed assets
in service at the beginning and at the end of that
Fiscal Year, expressed as a percentage;
(ii) the   term  "net  operating   income"  means  gross
revenues from all sources related to the Sector's
electricity operations less all expenses of elec-
tricity operations, including cost of all fuels,
administrative expenses, adequate maintenance and
taxes or any payments in lieu of taxes, and provi-
sion for depreciation. Interest and other charges
on debt are not considered to be operating ex-
penses for the purposes of determining said net
operating income;


﻿-4-
(iii) the term "current net value of the Sector's fixed
assets in service" means the gross value of the
Sector's fixed assets in service for electricity
operations less the amount of accumulated depre-
ciation and consumers contributions, all valued
annually from Fiscal Year 1971 in accordance with
the fixed capital formation deflator used for
public   investment  in  the   Guarantor's  annual
accounts; and
(iv) "electricity operations" shall exclude all mining
activities of the utilities in the Sector.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Finance
Grand Palace
Bangkok 10200
Thailand
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINANCE                            82823 MINANCE TH
Bangkok
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-5-
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this.    2   -day of OvUW    98 _.
FOR SECRETARY


