Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY  FILE  COPY
Report 'N. 1943-Hii.X
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAIMI
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
May 25, 1978
Regional Projects Department
Easter- Africa Projects, Southern Agriculture
This document has a restricted distribution oul may be tised by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatitin.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                      =     Malawi Kwacha (MK) = 100 tambala (t)
US$1.00                            =     MK 0.91
MXK 1.00                           =     US$1.10
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kg                               =     2.2 lb.
I m ton                            =     1.1 short tons (= 2,000 lb.)
1 ha2                                    2.47 acrei
1 km                               =     0.3861 mi
1 km                               =     0.6 mile
1 bag maize                        =     90 kg (200 lb.)
1 bag fertilizer                   =     50 kg. (= 210 lb.)
A.BBREVIATIONS
ADHA2RC    -      Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
CSC       -       Cold Storage Company
EPA       -       Extension Planning Area
FMD       -       Foot and Mouth Disease
KRDP      -       Karonga Rural Development Project
LLDP      -       Lilongwe Land Development Program
MANR      -       Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MOE       -       Ministry of Education
MOH       -       Ministry of Health
MOW       -       Ministry of Works and Supplies
MYP       -       Malawi Young Pioneers
NRDP      -       National Rural Development Program
SVADP     -       Shire Valley Agricultural Development Program
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaRe No.
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR *................................            1
A.   Background **.......................................            1
B.   Smallholder Production *.........ooooo........ ... ....         1
C.   Livestock  o... 000............................000.................  3
D.   Government Agricultural Services          ...................   3
II.   THE PROJECT AREA ..................       .....................      4
A.   The Project Area .... .     .................................   4
B.   The Shire Valley Agricultural Development Program  ..          6
III.   THE PROJECT ... c.e..e...e..e....e............eec....               11
A.   General Description e.ec...eoooe.oo..ooo..ooee.*o.eo cc        11
Bo   Detailed Features  eee.....e ccc.*     ceeeeccee.......e cc..   13
C.   Project Cost ... o.oo... ce... ce *......... .e..ee   ....e.  22
D.   Financing e.oe.c.e. oooe.e.......c..e.eeoeo.o..e.eo.o         23
Eo   Procurement oeeeoeeooo             *eoeeoe .ce . oe.e.o.... c....   23
Fo   Disbursement ......e *.........0000-0- ..... .........0       24
G.   Accounts, Audit and Reports  e.*oooooeoeo*o.....e..eo         25
H.   Eavironmental Effects ...................0...........0        26
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..oo ....... o .... e * c c e e c e c e c e e c e c  26
V.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES,
AND FINANCIAL BENEFITS  ........... cece c  e.cc..........c. e.e   28
A.   Production .c....0......0c.0.ececcc....eeee... e.c....        28
Bo   Markets and Prices  o...o.ece..ecee..e.c....ce00000e.         31
C.  F    Benefits C. Farmer Benefitsc..      c                     33
D.   Government Cash Flow cooo..oc cooo.... cececc.                34
VI.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....c..e.c.ccc.c                35
VII.   ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS           ...e..eec..cee             38
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which visited Malawi
in August 1977 comprising Messrs. J. Frankel, E. Goetz, D. Lister (IDA);
G. Kerkhoven, J. Callahan, W. McDonnell (Consultants).
Thu document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.         Supporting Charts and Tables
Chart - C - 1 SVADP Organization Chart
Chart - C - 2 SVADP Organization of the Extension Staff
Chart - C - 3 Project Implementation Schedule
Table - T-1  Credit Fund Cash Flow
Table - T-2  Summary of Project Costs
Table - T-3  Withdrawal of Proceeds of Credit
Table - T-4  Breakdown of Project Costs into Categories
Table - T-5  Incremental Project Production
Table - T-6  Farm Budgets at Full Development of Project
Table - T-7  Commodity Budgets per ha at'Full Development of Project
Table - T-8 Fisherman's Budget, One Year's Catch
Table - T-9  Government Cash Flow
Table - T-10 Economic Cost and Benefit Streams
Table - T-11 Project Equipment and Civil Works Schedule
2.        Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD  13345R - Shire Valley Communication
13346R - Shire Valley Agricultural Research and ADMARC,
Marketing Location, and Shire Valley Extension
Planning Areas
13347  - Shire Valley Health Facilities and Borehole
Location
13348  - Shire Valley Meteorological Data



MALAWI
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Background
2                     2
1.01      Malawi has a total area of 118,500 km , of which 24,200 km   is
lake surface. The land area consists of three topographically different
- ^       regions - the northern mountainous region, the central plateau, and the
southern lowlands. Soils are relatively fertile, and the fairly reliable
rainfall permits the cultivation of a variety of food and cash crops. Agri-
culture is the most important sector of the Malawi economy, as it employs
some 85% of the population and contributes about 46 percent of GDP (1975/76).
The real annual growth of the agricultural sector ranged from 2 to 4 percent
in the period 1972/73 - 1974/75, but increased sharply to 8 percent in 1975/
76, due to a sharp rise in maize and rice production, resulting from lowered
fertilizer prices and good weather. In 1976 agriculture accounted for 94
percent of export earnings; these were derived mainly from-tobacco (48 percent
of agricultural exports), tea (20 percent), sugar (13 percent), groundnuts (8
percent), and other crops (11 percent).
1.02      The population of Malawi was estimated at 5.2 million in 1976, and
the annual population growth rate is about 2.6 percent. The country's aver-
age population density is one of the highest in Africa; this density does,
however, vary considerably from region to region, with the majority of the
population being concentrated in the more southern regions. About 82 per-
cent of the total area is held under customary tenure, and about 8 percent
is either freehold or leasehold estates or plantations; the average customary
holding is about 1.5 hectares. The remainder is state land mainly devoted to
forests and national parks. Over the past decade increased food requirements
for the exDanding population have been met for the most part through an ex-
pansion in cultivated area. This has meant that land more susceptible to
erosion has been cultivated and that fallow periods have been reduced. Con-
sequently, land conservation and maintenance of soil fertility through the
introduction of improved techniques and inputs has become increasingly impor-
tant.
B. Smallholder Production
1.03      Smallholders account for over 85 percent of all agricultural pro-
duction. Maize is by far the most important crop, occupying 80 percent of
all cultivated land; other major food crops are pulses, groundnuts and
cassava and to a lesser extent rice, sorghum and wheat. The main small-
holder cash crops are groundnuts, rice, fire-cured tobacco, cotton, pulses
and maize; the export value of these crops in 1976 totalled MK 49.4 million
(US$54.3 million), or 35 percent of total export earnings from agriculture.
Estates account for the remaining 15 percent of total agricultural produc-
tion and over 60 percent of agricultural exports (mainly tea and tobacco);



-2-
the total value of exports from this source was estimated at MK 80 million
(US$88.0 million) in 1976.
1.04      Government is presently determined to achieve self sufficiency in
food staples while at the same time allowing a significant expansion in agri-
cultural exports. However, given the limitation on high quality land avail-
able for new cultivation, and the increasingly high cost of reclamation on
marginal lands or lands exhausted by continuous cultivation, the main
emphasis of current agricultural policy is on a sustained rise in produc-
tivity. Government's overall strategy is to attempt to provide a growth
climate for both smallholders and estate production. In the past, improve-
ments in smallholder productivity have been sought through two quite dif-
ferent approaches.  The more general approach has concentrated on a gradual
improvement of extension, land husbandry and farmer training services through-
out the country; these efforts have been supported by a few small, low-cost
rural development projects (usually funded by the UK or by UNDP) and by spe-
cial activities and programs (e.g. ox-training, dairy improvement, and tea
development). The second approach has been based on the introduction of
considerably more expensive and management intensive integrated development
programs in four specific areas; these are: the Lilongwe Land Development
Projects (LLDP - I, II, and III, IDA Credits 113, 224 and 550), Shire Valley
(SVADP I and II, IDA Credits 114 and 363, and Consolidation Phase subject of
this report), Karonga (KRDP I and II, IDA Credit 282, and Third Window Loan
1286), and the Lake Shore Rural Development Project, formerly funded by the
Republic of Germany (1968-74) and now assisted by the European Development
Fund (EDF).  All of the above programs are characterized by the provision of
infrastructure (roads, markets, water and health facilities, etc.), institu-
tion of land improvement and conservation measures, irrigation development,
improved extension and other services, and provision of credit facilities.
These four comprehensive programs - which are concentrated in the more densely
populated areas - will eventually affect one million persons, or 25 percent of
Malawi's rural population. While the programs are making a significant con-
tribution to increased agricultural production, a change of emphasis will be
needed if the remaining 75 percent of the rural population is to be included
in the development effort within a reasonable period.
1.05      In line with the above objective, Government has adopted a National
Rural Development Program (NRDP) which will extend and consolidate various
development programs over the entire country, but necessarily under a less
intensive basis. The NRDP is specifically designed to increase the level of
smallholder production through the provision of agricultural inputs and farm
services; particular attention will be paid to increasing the efficiency and
scope  f extension, input supply, marketing and credit services.  Under the
NRDP, cultivation of new land will be discouraged, and emphasis will be placed
on ir-nroved productivity on already cultivated areas; attention will also be
given to soil conservation, fisheries development, and afforestation.  The
Ministry of Agriculture will have overall responsibility for implementation
of the program, whereas the earlier projects were established under indepen-
dent authorities. The Ministry will establish eight Management Units cover-
ing the whole country, each of which will be responsible for one Agricultural



- 3 -
Development Division (ADD). On average, each ADD will be divided into five
Development Areas (DA), each covering about 25,000 farm families. The pres-
ent plan calls for a 15-18 year development period for each DA, which would
be divided in four phases - a preparatory phase, an extensive phase, an
intensive phase and a consolidation phase. The four major development pro-
grams (Lilongwe, Karonga, Lake Shore and Shire) are being adjusted where
necessary during their present phases to fall into line with the overall
concepts of NRDP. The area of the SVADP is the same as the NRDP/Ngabu
management unit; therefore, the Project is consistent with national planning
for NRDP development.
C. Livestock
1.06      Malawi's total cattle population was estimated at over 700,000 in
1976; the herd is growing at a rate of about 5 percent per annum, and offtake
rates are not generally higher than 10 percent. Most of these cattle are
located in the central and northern regions, although there is a fairly heavy
concentration of stock in the Shire Valley (8 or 9 percent of the total). The
cattle are raised for the most part by traditional methods, and are valued
mainly as a source of wealth; livestock are only to a limited extent integra-
ted into the existing development programs. The Government is making improved
breeds and artificial insemination services available in the livestock sub-
sector. Other Government activities include the establishment of a fattening
ranch, and the introduction of stall feeder schemes (to introduce cattle
raising to farmers who were previously not familiar with animal husbandry).
With the expansion of these schemes, Malawi has achieved self-sufficiency in
better grade beef, however, domestic production of lower grade beef is still
insufficient. Pigs are mainly raised by estates; slaughterings of pigs in-
creased by an average of 30 percent per annum between 1973 and 1976, when
Malawi became self-sufficient in pork.
D. Government Agricultural Services
1.07      The Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources is primarily
responsible for the provision of services to the agricultural sector. It
operates through four departments: Extension and Training (which provides
farmer services throughout the country), Animal Health, Research (with
particular specialization in agricultural economics, cattle breeding and
pasture improvement), and Technical Services (which supervises land use
planning, settlement schemes and irrigation programs). The Ministry is
also responsible for the four major agricultural development projects
(para 1.04), through which almost all organized smallholder credit in
Malawi is provided.
1.08      The Ministry of Agriculture also exercises general supervision
over the activities of the Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation



- 4 -
(ADMARC) - the most important institution involved in the marketing of small-
holder produce. ADMARC buys, stores, processes and markets (both locally
and abroad) all marketable cotton and tobacco grown in Malawi and is also
empowered to purchase all produce grown on customary land. ADMARC views
itself as a residual buyer of smallholder produce, purchasing only that out-
put which farmers choose to market through it. A large amount of marketed
smallholder produce is either sold or bartered among the farmers and at local
markets; ADMARC's maize purchases, for example, represent only a small portion
of the marketed total. In addition, ADMARC implements Government's price pol-
icy and supplies inputs to smallholders. Commodity prices are established by
ADMARC (with the approval of the Minister of Agriculture) and its official
price list includes most cash and subsistence crops. In recent years ADMARC
has accumulated substantial profits from trading crops such as tobacco, cot-
ton, and groundnuts.  ADMARC's profits from crop trading reached a record
level of MK 22.7 million in 1976/77. With its profits from crop trading,
ADMARC has been able to expand its investments and loans; these reached
MK 50.7 million in 1976/77, as compared to MK 39.1 million in 1975/76. Most
of ADMARC's investments and loans in recent years have been to estate agri-
culture and non-agricultural commercial and industrial enterprises. ADMARC
also devotes part of its turn-over to a price-equalization reserve to stabil-
ize domestic commodity prices, and maintains a small food reserve stock. It
maintains 52 main storage depots, and over 700 temporary produce buying sta-
tions; in addition it operates tobacco and groundnut grading centers and
seed production farms. ADMARC also supplies fertilizer, seed, and agricul-
tural equipment to smallholders. The Cold Storage Company, is involved in
the marketing of smallholder produce. It is a residual buyer of cattle at
official auctions, and currently handles about 20 percent of all cattle
marketed.
II. PROJECT AREA
A. Shire Valley
2.01      The Project area comprises the administrative districts of Chikwawa
and Nsanje making up most of the Lower Shire Valley covering some 6,720 km
in the southern part of Malawi (see maps). The valley floor is an elongated
alluvial plain about 144 km long and 16-32 km across, whose height above sea
level changes gradually from 150 meters at the foot of the Valley escarpment
to 60 meters along the Shire River. Some 295,000 ha (or 44%) of the total
land area consists of national parks, game reserves, forest reserves and
controlled areas.  Some 63,000 ha or (9%) is covered by marsh, and 10,500 ha
(1.5%) is used by the Sugar Corporation of Malawi (SUCOMA). This leaves about
300,000 ha (45%) available for settlement and/or cropping. The 310,000 people
living in the valley represent 6% of Malayii's population.  The overall popu-
lation density is about 36 persons per km ; however, as the maj2rity of people
live on the valley floor, the density there is about 150 per km . The approx-
imately 70,000 smallholder families in the Project area cultivate an average
of about 1.5 ha each. Available data indicates family size to be between 4 and



5 members. Land is held under customary tenure and inheritance is patri-
lineal. Average annual income for all Valley smallholders is calculated
at $75.00 per family or $15.00 per capita assuming 5 in a family. The figure
includes the value of home consumed food crops. No allowance has been in-
cluded for livestock sales since only 12-13% of farmers own all the Valley
cattle. If, however, an allowance for reported cattle sales were added
to gross Valley income it would increase average per capita income to $18.00.
This would be equal to about 14% of the national per capita average of
$132.00.
2.02      The valley floor has marked wet and dry seasons of about six months
each, and the annual rainfall averages 750 mm (see meteorological map). Tem-
peratures are highest in October/November prior to the onset of the rains,
and lowest during the period June/July. The soils on the escarpments are
generally poor and unsuitable for crops, but those in the valley, predomi-
nantly cracking clays and alluvials, can support sustained cropping under
both rainfed and irrigated conditions. There is ample surface water, and a
good supply of groundwater throughout most of the Valley.
2.03      The major dryland crops of the Lower Shire Valley are cotton, maize,
bulrush millet, sorghum and groundnuts. Pigeon peas and cassava are locally
important in hill areas. Rice is grown along the Shire floodplain, some of it
under irrigation, and irrigated sugarcane is a major estate crop. The valley
is one of the best natural grazing areas in Malawi as the extensive marshes
and riverine flats provide excellent dry season fodder. The total cattle
population is about 60,000 head and there is also a large goat population.
Fish, mostly from the marshes, is an important valley product, both for local
consumption and for export to surrounding areas; the yearly fish harvest has
grown from 90 m tons in 1956 to the present range of 7-8,000 m tons.
2.04      Travel in the valley has been radically transformed and improved
with the recent completion of the bitumen road from Chikwawa to Bangula.
However, the access roads from the Shire highlands to the valley have always
been relatively poor, and are often impassable during the rains. Contracts
have been let by the Ministry of Works (MOW) for construction of the Blantyre-
Chikwawa road over the escarpment; with completion of this route, the Valley
will be easily accessible from the northern urban centers. The river is
navigable as far as Chikwawa, and barges from Nchalo (SUCOMA) carry sugar to
the railhead at Chiromo. Postal and telecommunications services link Lilong-
we, the capita, and Blantyre with all the main centers in the valley. There
are five light aircraft landing strips at Nchalo, Ngabu, Bangula, Nsanje and
Chikwawa.
2.05      The educational facilities of the area consist of 102 primary
schools, two secondary schools, two corresponding college centers, and a
number of Kwacha schools concentrating on adult literacy. Government ser-
vices include police, traditional courts, forestry and veterinary adminis-
tration, and district council administrative headquarters at Chikwawa, Ngabu
and Bangula.



-6-
B. The Shire Valle! Agricultural Development Program
Phase I
2.06      The Shire Valley has always been considered one of Malawi's most
disadvantaged regions in terms of climate, incidence of disease and low agri-
cultural productivity. Consequently, Government has since the late 1960's
given high priority to the implementation of a comprehensive development
program in this area. The first phase of this program - The Shire Valley
Agricultural Development Project (SVADP I) - was initiated in 1968.  The
Project was aimed primarily at increasing crop production on about 50,000
ha; it included provision for credit to farmers, improved agricultural ex-
tension services, settlement of farmers, construction of essential infra-
structure such as boreholes and markets, and construction and improvement of
crop extraction roads. The project was supported by an IDA Credit (114-MAI)
totalling US$3.7 million, which covered 80% of the overall project cost of
US$4.6 million.
2.07      The project was terminated on schedule on March 31, 1973.  The
completion report and the performance audit 1/ considered the project to
be well conceived, effectively implemented and generally successful. This
success was based not only on the achievement of physical targets (see below),
but also on the overall impact of the project on the attitudes of those living
in the Shire Valley. The project was noteworthy in that it was very success-
ful in involving people at all levels in the rural development effort in an
area whose inhabitants had been considered resistant to change. It had an
immediate and salutary effect on the populace as a result of the improvement
in health standards, the streamlining of administrative services, the training
of local staff, and the increased expenditures on basic infrastructure. Once
the tangible effects of the central Government's commitment became evident, it
also facilitated the political reintegration of the area into the mainstream
of Malawi's economic activity. It is generally agreed that these unquantifi-
able benefits were vital in providing the initial stimulus to the participa-
tion and cooperation of the people in subsequent phases. The PPAR pointed out
that, although the Project would attain about a 15% economic rate of return,
there was little chance that Government could recover more than a minor part
of its investment since benefits generated by the Project would remain with
the large number of participating smallholders.
2.08      Prolect Implementation.  The physical implementation of the project
was generally excellent, as appraisal targets were in most cases either met
or exc bded.  Achievements with regard to construction of basic infrastructure
are detailed below:
1/   Project Performance Audit Report (Credit 114-MAI), October 22, 1975.
Report No. 895.



-7-
Appraisal
Estimates                   Actual
Roads (km)                    288                        290
Productive Boreholes (no)    156                         183
Markets (no)                     7                         8
Settlement (families)       4,000                        340 1/
1/ This component was finally deleted from the Project
because of political considerations.
The project also increased extension coverage from one sprayer demonstrator
per 1,650 farmers to one per 160 farmers. Credit was provided to allow
farmers to purchase cotton sprayers and pesticides.
2.09      Extension work and other crop related services were focussed on
cotton - mainly because of the lack of a suitable innovative package for
other crops at that time. An attempt was made to introduce high yielding
maize, but was unsuccessful because the varieties used were not suited for
Valley conditions. The purpose of the agricultural extension for cotton was
essentially two-fold: (i) to induce the farmers to buy a sprayer and insec-
ticides on credit; and (ii) to induce the farmers to adopt general agronomic
improvements. The success of the cotton extension effort can be seen in the
table below, which shows the percentage of all farmers owning sprayers (the
appraisal target was to have 4,000 sprayer-owning farmers by 1972/73).
Sprayer-Owning Farmers
67/68    68/69    69/70    70/71    71/72    72/73
Number                200       853     1,819    2,994    5,364    4,800 1/
% of all farmers      1.2%     5.2%    10.7%    14.4%    25.2%    21.8%
1/   Data incomplete for the year.
The success of the extension effort may also be measured by the incremental
cotton production achieved over the project period. The appraisal projected
that farmers adopting the spraying recommendation would increase cotton yields
from 300 kg/ha to 800 kg/ha, and eventually to 900 kg/ha. In practice, aver-
age yields of those who sprayed ranged between 800 and 1,000 kg/ha, depending
on weather conditions. Incremental cotton production followed appraisal pro-
Jections closely up to year four; in year five, however, production fell to
only one-third the expected level due to unfavorable weather conditions.



-8-
Incremental Cotton Production
(m tons)
68/69    69/70    70/71    71/72    72/73
Original Project Estimates       750      1,782    2,872    4,126    5,744
Actual                           867      1,821    3,004    3,725    2,021
As noted in para 2.07, the PPAR for the Phase I project re-estimated the
economic rate of return for Phase I at about 15%; that figure has not been
further recalculated, but would now be lower because of the subsequent
droughts, the subsequent lowering of intensity of spraying (as now recom-
mended, and reflecting changing relative prices between cotton and insecti-
cides) and the decrease in overall cotton acreages in the Shire Valley
(partially the result of reduced financial incentives).
Phase II
2.10      While recognizing the achievements of the first phase, development
had been concentrated in the immediate neighborhood of Ngabu (the central
valley). It was decided that the second phase project should be a more
broadly based rural development program which would provide agricultural
and other services and infrastructure in an area adjacent to and including
that of Phase I. The project was appraised in June 1972, and an IDA credit
of US$10.5 million (which financed 78% of total project costs of US$13.5
million) was approved on March 1973, Credit No. NAI-363. The Phase I PPAR
was critical of the size and complexity of Phase II and disagreed with the
22% ERR projected for the second phase, these observations, however, came
almost three years after the appraisal. The Project included provision for:
Ci) medium term and seasonal credit; (ii) extension services and a farmer
training program; (iii) development of livestock and fisheries, and wildlife
protection; (iv) construction of roads, health facilities, crop markets, and
rural water supplies; and (v) project administration and agricultural re-
search. The agricultural component was expected to affect some 16,300 farm-
ers, additional to those reached in Phase I, as well as some 1,000 fisher-
men. The principal aim of the Project was increased crop production on some
52,400 ha, including some 20,000 ha of cotton, 21,000 ha of maize, 7,600 ha
of sorghum, 2,800 ha of rice and 1,600 ha of groundnuts. The specific yields
and production targets projected at full development in 1976/77 were:
Yields (kg/ha)                 Cotton    Maize   Sorghum    Rice   Groundnuts
Unimproved farms                 335       675      675        335       450
.Improved farms                 1,000    2,020       900      2,250       900
Total Production (m/tons)
Improved farmers              16,700   30,000       850    49,500        135



- 9 -
These projections were based on the expectation that an average of just
over 3,000 farmers would annually adopt improved cultural practices. It was
also assumed that fish production would increase annually by about 1,260 m
tons, and that the annual offtake of beef cattle for sale would increase from
10% to 15%.
2.11      Prolect Implementation.  The success of the project can be measured
by two quite different criteria. On the one hand, excellent progress was
achieved in completing the project's physical infrastructure; on the other
hand, total crop production failed by a wide margin to meet appraisal esti-
mates. Achievements with regard to construction of basic infrastructure are
detailed below:
Appraisal
Estimate      Actual       %
Road Construction (km)                  304          200       66%
Borehole Construction                   140          132       94%
Dips                                     11            5 1/  100%
.Fish Kilns                               50           62     124%
Health Posts and Centers                 16           15      94%
Markets                                  17            9 2/  100%
Ox-Training Centers                       7            7     100%
Oxen Trained (pair)                     250          592     236%
1/   Original target of 11 dips was reduced to 5.
2/   ADMARC decided to limit construction to 9 based on volume
in targeted areas.
In spite of these achievements, the viability of the project was threatened by
the widespread failure of almost all crops to meet appraisal targets. Total
cotton production declined from 15,200 m tons in 1973/74 to 7,600 m tons in
1975/76. Maize dropped from 27,000 m tons to 8,600 m tons. One of the major
causes of these drastic declines was the prolonged drought which devastated
the area, although low cotton farmgate prices also discouraged production.
Many farmers increased their planting of drought resistant sorghum and millet,
while sharply reducing cotton planting, in an effort to protect their family
food supply. There were, however, additional production related constraints
which had not been recognized in formulating appraisal projections. For
example, increases in both cultivated area and yields were overestimated, as
was the size of the average smallholder cotton area. Moreover, project staff
made slow progress in identifying improved maize, sorghum and millet varieties
adapted to valley conditions. Consequently, as there was no cereal grain
package available to producers, there was little improvement in yields. 1/
Finally project management was almost completely occupied with executing the
construction program, and did not take the time required to organize, imple-
ment and supervise an effective extension/ training/research unit to support
crop production. The table below gives a comparison of appraisal estimates
and actual production over the first four project years.
1/   However, varieties that showed promise were identified, tested, and
multiplication has begun, to form the basis for Phase III packages.
I



- 10 -
('000 m tons)
Base Year
72/73         73/74         74/75         75/76         76/77
Prol. Act.   Proj. Act.   Proj. Act.   Proj. Act.   Proj. Act.
Cotton          17.0  14.5  20.5  15.2   22.0   9.6   27.8   7.6    31.5   9.5
Maize           12.2  12.2  21.5  27.0   28.5  12.0   43.0   8.9    44.0  28.4
Sorghum          3.5   3.5   3.6   3.5    3.6   2.7    3.7   4.5         3.7  10.2
Rice             2.2   2.2   2.25  1.8    0.7   2.5    2.5   0.6         2.5   0.7
Groundnuts       0.42  0.42  0.54  0.53   0.90  0.72   1.3   0.62    1.5   0.88
An analysis of these statistics clearly shows the disastrous effect of the
drought years 1974/75 and 1975/76.  Moreover, although crop yields for all
crops returned to normal in 1976/77, cotton production fell by about 25% be-
cause of a late season infestation of field mice.
2.12      The project's fisheries and livestock development programs met with
somewhat greater success. The fisheries program, which included the con-
struction of kilns and boats and the training of fishermen, was progressing
satisfactorily towards achieving appraisal targets. The ox-training and
ox-purchase programs were well accepted by farmers, although-there was more
interest in using the oxen for transport than for land preparation. On the
other hand, meat production in the project area declined due to two outbreaks
of Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD). This resulted in the prohibition of all
livestock movement both within and out of the Valley, and the temporary
closing of cattle markets.
2.13      The incremental credit required for the second phase was provided
through funds contributed by Government, in-kind contribution from ADMARC,
and the cumulative building of credit repayments. Farmers and fishermen
received credit in-kind with no down payment. Seasonal loans (10 months)
were made at an interest rate of 12% per annum, while medium term loans (3
years) were at a rate of 3.2% per annum. Farmers also benefitted from an
ADMARC subsidy on farm inputs, mainly spraying equipment and pesticides.
The accounting procedures for monitoring this credit were extremely poor;
there was no distinction made between current accounts and outstanding amounts
from previous years. A comprehensive analysis of repayment performance was
therefore not possible; available data indicate, however, that repayments
dropped sharply from the rate achieved under the first phase 1/. Much of
1/                     No. of             Amount Loaned           Recovery Rate
Year      Borrowers               ('000 MK)           Rate Z (Sept. 1977)
1968/69        702                   39                      92
1969/70     1,255                    83                      92
1970/71     1,730                   132                      96
1971/72     5,438                   2i8                      87
1972/73     6,760                   174                      63
1973/74    10,396                   294                      80
1974/75    15,320                   335                      64
1975/76    24,031                   446                      44



- 11 -
the problem can be attributed to crop failures in the drought years, and
recent information since appraisal from the field indicates a definite in-
crease in repayments following the improved harvest of the 1976/77 crop
season.
2.14      Economic Analysis.  The economic analysis of Phase II of the
Project, considered as separate from Phase I and the Consolidation Phase
now under appraisal, is quite difficult because of interface problems. How-
ever, such an analysis will be attempted in detail during the preparation
of the forthcoming Project Completion Report for the Phase II project. The
normal technical difficulties in this kind of situation are exacerbated in
this case by the fact that the exceptionally bad droughts of 1974/75 and
1975/76 have had a massive effect on yields, causing shifts of plantings
to subsistence crops. If it is assumed that the results of Phase II are
limited to those already apparent, Phase II would show a zero rate of return
even if future operating costs are assumed to be cut back solely to those
required to maintain the present Phase II (rather than the much heavier
levels originally presumed to be needed if Phase II had had the incremental
production effect originally estimated). It can, however, be argued that
much of what has been done in Phase II has provided the basis for the Con-
solidation Phase, under appraisal, the economic rate of return for which
is some 20% (see Chapter VI); thus it is important to note that when Phase II
and the Consolidated Phase are combined, an 8-10% economic rate of return
results.
2.15      Planning for the Consolidation Phase has taken particular cognizance
of the production weaknesses that developed during Phase II. Consequently,
under the Consolidation Phase, there would be a reorganization and intensifi-
cation of the extension and training component; the research and seed multi-
plication units would provide extension with complete production packages,
which would include drought resistant cereal seed varieties, and moisture
conserving cultivation practices. There would also be sharp reductions in
infrastructure development which would permit full attention by Project staff
to agricultural production. An increase in cotton prices of 17% was announced
prior to the 1977/78 planting season, vhich has encouraged increased plantings.
Consolidation Phase crop projections of yields and areas have been adjusted to
include an allowance for the risk of recurring dry seasons.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The Project would constitute a third, consolidation phase of the
Shire Valley Agricultural Development Program; as such, it would be a direct
continuation of the second phase, drawing on the experience gained over the
past five years. The Project's major objectives are: (i) to increase the
number of farmers applying improved crop practices by about 15,000 so that
at least 55% of the Valley's smallholders (40,000) will have adopted at least
some of the practices by full development in 1982/83; (ii) to provide tech-
nical assistance to these farmers to increase land under improved practices



- 12 -
(12% of cropped area) 1/ to about 50,000 ha (47% of cropped area) by 1982/83;
and (iii) to provide increased social and infrastructural services directly or
indirectly affecting just about all 70,000 families in the Project area.
3.02      Over a four year period (1978/79 - 1981/82), the project would:  (i)
continue to support development of rainfed agricultural production through
reorganization and strengthening of the extension service, provision of
improved seed varieties, and through provision of credit; (ii) improve the
quantity and quality of meat and fish production; (iii) continue support of
the land husbandry program with an added forestry unit; and (iv) extend water,
health, and road services. The Project would specifically provide for:
(a) establishing headquarters for 5 additional Extension
Planning Areas (EPA's) with the required staff housing,
training and administrative facilities, (see map for
location of EPAs);
(b) establishment of a 150 hectare irrigated seed selection
and multiplication farm directed by an expanded research
team;
(c)  continuation of seasonal and medium term credit for farm
and fisheries inputs;
(d) construction of additional livestock markets and dips,
expansion of FMD and tsetse control, and increasing the
ox-training program;
(e) expansion of the Natural Resources Division to include a
Forestry Development Unit, and continue improvement of
wildlife facilities;
(f) groundwater survey and development including construction
of 40 additional boreholes and 40 shallow wells, providing
consultants' service to review experiences gained under
existing irrigation schemes and to undertake an irrigation
feasibility study of the Valley;
(g) continuation and improvement of Project area health
facilities;
(h) completion of the access road network, and maintenance of
Project roads, buildings and equipment; and
(i) continuation and expansion of the Project Evaluation unit, and
finance for two years, the position of Chief Planning Officer
in the MANR.
1/   of which 9300 has are in cotton representing 44% of the total
cotton area.



- 13 -
The project would be administered by the Shire Valley Agricultural Development
Program (SVADP) management team, (see chart C-1) under the general direction
of the Ministry of Agriculture and National Resources. The health component
would be administered by the Ministry of Health.
3.03      As is usual for agricultural projects, expenditures on staffing and
vehicle operating costs and the like are considered as "capital costs" when
they are required for further development; they are considered as "recurrent
costs" when they are required to maintain levels of production already attain-
ed. In the case of this Consolidation Project, it might normally have been
expected that the levels of expenditure originally anticipated as needed to
maintain Phase II levels of production would be considered as "recurrent
costs" of the Shire Valley project entity during the Consolidation Phase and
that "capital costs" for the Consolidation Phase would include only expendi-
tures above and beyond those levels. However, as already noted in the des-
cription of Phase II project results (paras 2.11 to 2.14), present production
results of Phase II are substantially below expectations. Therefore, the cost
of services required to maintain the level of production reached by farmers
and fisherman at the end of Phase II have been recalculated (para 3.32) and
are considered as "recurrent costs" to be borne entirely by Government during
the Consolidation Phase; and all expenditures by the Project entity above and
beyond this level are considered as Consolidation Phase project costs. A
consistent approach has been taken in assessing the economic costs of the
Consolidation Project.
B. Detailed Features
Agricultural Services
3.04      Extension.  Production increases in the Project area would be
primarily dependent upon the effectiveness of the Project extension and
farmer training programs organized under the first and second phases. Present
staff, although adequate in numbers, have been generally ineffective - mainly
because the early recruits had only limited skills and were preoccupied mostly
with the construction of basic infrastructure. Under the Project, therefore,
the extension system would be reorganized to provide farmers with more regular
and up-to-date advice on farming methods and practices. The new system would
be based on a carefully scheduled "Training and Visit" program. The program
would be instituted and supervised by trained village agricultural extension
workers (TA's). Each of these extension workers could cover some 600 farm
families, divided into smaller groups of about 100 families (the number would
vary according to population density and accessibility). Each group of
families would be visited by a TA on a fixed day of the week, once every two
weeks. The TA would work primarily with 10 contact farmers selected from each
group; other farmers in the group would be encouraged to join the TA in his
field visits and discussion sessions. The message communicated would be a
simple one, and would concentrate on specific crops and specific farming
operations of interest to the farmers at that point in time.  The specific
message or lesson would be developed by the TA and Project technical officers



- 14 -
at bi-weekly training sessions. The TA would thus spend one day out of every
two weeks participating in demonstrations, field trials and administrative
activities, so as to prepare for the following two weeks of field work with the
designated farmer groups.
3.05      In order to ensure the successful implementation of this program,
the Project would improve the present ratio of 1 trained extension worker
(TA) per 1,000 farmers. At the present time there are some 75 Technical
Assistants (TA's) and 160 Development Assistants (DA's) working with farmers
at the village level. DAs, who are primary school leavers with little agri-
culture training or experience, have been used when technically qualified
and trained TAs were not available. During the Project, the number of TA's
would be increased by 57 (to 132) and the DA's would be phased out.  Some of
the new TA's would be promoted DA's, following completion of the certificate
course at Colby Agricultural Training College; others would be newly recruited.
Since the DA positions are non-permanent, non-pensionable positions, while the
TA positions are permanent and pensionable, it was agreed during negotiations
that sufficient new TA positions would be established to meet project needs,
as follows: 97 positions by May 1, 1979; 112 by May 1980 and 132 by May 1981.
At project completion, the 132 TA's would be deployed as follows: 12 in
training centers and 120 doing field extension work, providing a ratio of I
trained extension worker to about 600 farm families.  The proposed extension
methodology is based on regular and frequent farm visits by extension staff.
It is essential, therefore, that field staff and their supervisors live near
their work and that they are sufficiently mobile to enable them to function
effectively. Despite extensive access road improvements there are many areas
of the Valley where four wheel drive vehicles are required during the rainy
season which is also the growing season and the most active time for field
contacts. The Project would provide staff houses, 1/ offices, 9 4-WD vehi-
cles, 30 motorcycles, 3 extension aid vans with equipment, and a 7-ton truck;
provision would also be made for Project vehicle operating costs and staff
salaries, which are considered developmental costs (para 3.03).
3.06      Training.  The basic extension techniques to be applied under
the Project would require a systematic training program for village extension
workers (TA's). The TA's would therefore receive intensive instruction
from Project specialist staff in those specific agricultural practices and
recommendations related directly to the field preparation planned for a given
two-week period. Residential and non-residential training sites and facili-
ties were established under the second phase project; new facilities would be
provided under the proposed Project for the five new EPA headquarters. Also,
two additional staff would be recruited to continue the training for farm
women in agriculture and home sciences.  This will bring to twelve the number
of instructors whose program includes poultry, milk and vegetable production
besides participation in planning by farm women. Specifically the Project
1/   60 one-room staff houses (PL type) constructed for DAs will be converted
to acceptable EL-2 standard houses by adding required rooms. The con-
version has been estimated at MK 2,000 for each unit. New construction
of EL-2 costs MK 5,000.



- 15 -
would include provision for: 5 area headquarters training centers; 50 low-cost
village unit training centers, one 4-WD vehicle, a personnel carrier, 11
motorcycles, vehicle operating costs and staff salaries.
3.07      Research.  The Project Research Unit would be charged with providing
the extension service with simple but relevant technological information
suitably adapted to the locality and major crop combinations of the five
ecological zones identified in the Valley. The Research Unit has four rainfed
experiment stations (Ngabu, Tomali, Maperera and Nsanje) which carry out
replicated field trials on all major crops grown in the Valley; these stations
are operated in close collaboration with the National Research Program and
the MANR's research stations at Kasinthula and Makanga. Also, there are
32 one acre (0.4 ha) fenced crop/weather plots distributed within the Project
area which are designed to provide information on yields of major crops in
the different ecological regions of the Valley. All agricultural research in
the Lower Shire Valley would continue to be directed by the Project Senior
Agricultural Research Officer, based at Ngabu. The experiment stations and
the crop/weather trial plots would be used by the extension TA's for their
work sessions with the contact farmers in the "Training and Visit System," and
in turn the Senior Technical Officers would use these facilities for training
sessions with the TA's. In addition demonstration plots would be established
on contact farmers' fields as part of the system.   The sucdess of the exten-
sion "Training and Visit" system will depend upon effectively coordinating
extension, training and research. The Project would include provision for:
an office block, a general laboratory and storage building, staff houses, 3
4-WD vehicles, 6 motorcycles, a farm tractor with assorted field equipment,
equipment for the research laboratory, vehicle and laboratory operating
expenses, and staff salaries.
3.08      Seed Multiplication.  The Project would provide for the establish-
ment of an irrigated seed selection and multiplication farm at the existing
MANR Makanga Research Station. The Ministry has agreed to assign 150 hectares
of the station's land to the Project for this purpose. Since the provision of
adequate improved seed for Project farmers is essential, the formal transfer
of the land to Project administration and control, would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness. The existing irrigation system would be improved and
expanded to handle the additional crop area. Selection and multiplication of
maize, sorghum, millet, groundnuts, guar beans, and edible beans would be con-
centrated at the new Makanga seed farm, while cotton and rice seed selection
and multiplication would be handled on the more suitable soils of the MANR's
Kasinthula Station. At full development, the seed multiplication operation
at Makanga would be financially self-sufficient.  In addition to developing
the irrigation system, the Project would include provision for:  an office
building, a storage and seed cleaning building, a garage and service bay,
staff houses, 3 farm tractors with a full complement of field equipment, one
4-WD vehicle, one 5-ton truck, seed cleaning and drying equipment, and one
motorcyle. The Project would also provide for vehicle and seed farm oper-
ating costs, and staff salaries for the first two Project years. The farm
would require one additional Professional Officer (PO), 2 supervisors and
8 TA's.



- 16 -
3.09      Credit Administration (Table T-1).  The credit program initiated
under the first two phases of the SVADP would be continued over the Project
period. The credit fund balance at the end of the second phase will be
approximately MK 1.30 million; this would be sufficient to cover the total
credit needs of the proposed Project. Seasonal and medium-term credit would
be extended to some 30,000-35,000 smallholder farmers and fishermen. At full
development, MK 172,000 in seasonal credit would be extended annually for
purchase of fertilizers, along with some MK 342,000 in seasonal credit for
pesticides. This credit would be extended at an interest rate of 15% with a
15% downpayment.  Medium term credit would be extended at an interest rate of
10% per annum; recovery would be in three equal annual installments. These
are existing rates established by MANR. Group credit introduced in the second
phase project would be expanded under the Project to lower administrative costs
and improve repayment rates; a lower credit charge of 10% for all such loans
would be imposed to provide an incentive to form participating groups. The
credit cash flow includes a 20% provision for bad debts for seasonal credit
and a 5% provision for medium-term credit. The Project would include provi-
sion for staff salaries (including 9 additional staff), houses, a 4-WD vehi-
cle, 13 motorcyles, office equipment and vehicle operating costs.
3.10      Animal Husbandry - Livestock Extension.  The Project would provide
additional livestock extension staff (one professional officer, a supervisory
officer and 2 livestock TA's) to the existing staff of 13 technicians to:
(i) support the increased marketing, disease control, and ox-training fa-
cilities; and (ii) work intensively with livestock owners in an effort to
stabilize the valley's cattle herd. The latter objective would require
reducing the number of females kept in the herd, and lowering the age of
animals to be sold for slaughter from 4-5 years to 2-3 years. Much of the
incentive for this will come from the demand for young feeder cattle from
within and outside the valley. The Project would provide one staff house,
a 4-WD vehicle, 10 motorcyles, operating costs and staff salaries.
3.11      Marketing.  The Project would finance an additional cattle market
near Nsanje, complete with weighscale, handling yard, and other required
facilities. The Khaombe Holding Ground established in the second phase would
be enlarged, and would be provided with a water supply.
3.12      Disease Control.  The tsetse investigation team established during
Phase II will complete the study in the first two years of the proposed
Project, however, an early evaluation of field results has indicated a
25% incidence of trypanosomiasis in cattle and the Project will provide
for a trypanosomiasis vaccination program. The Project would finance an
office/laboratory, a 4-WD vehicle, a motorcycle, laboratory and field camp-
ing equipment, and operating costs of the study. Outbreaks of Foot and
Mouth Disease have become more frequent, and although they have not seriously
affected the Valley's herd growth rate the disease periodically prevents ex-
ports of cattle from the Valley and poses a threat to other cattle herds in
the country. Under the Project an FMD vaccination program would be initiated
by the Veterinary Department. It has been agreed that technical guidance



- 17 -
would be the responsibility of the Animal Virus Research Institute of
Pirbright, UK. The Project would finance purchase of a refrigerated vehicle,
2 motorcycles, a camp caravan and field equipment, FMD vaccine, and vehicle
operating costs.
3.13      Ox-Training.  The Project would support the continuation of the
established ox-training program and would provide for additional training
centers one each at the five new EPA headquarters. The animal husbandry
technical assistants, in cooperation with the crop extension staff, would
intensify their efforts to increase the use of oxen for land preparation.
Natural Resources
3.14      Land Husbandry.  The Land Husbandry Unit of the Project's Natural
Resources Division would continue to monitor the ecological effects of the
development program and would help develop programs related to long term
preservation of the Valley's natural resources. The section would compile
and develop data on:
(a)  the classification and current use of land resources;
(b)  present agricultural and other Government services and
organization of human resources;
(c)  problems and constraints affecting development of the
Valley's potential; and
(d)  physical planning of the area.
The Land Husbandry Unit would work closely with the Extension Unit to provide
additional information on early cultivation, plant densities and rotations as
they affect retention of soil moisture. It would also act as a technical
advisory unit to support possible future development of irrigation potential.
The research section of the Natural Resources division organized under Phase
II has been incorporated into the Project's Research Unit to ensure better
overall coordination of all Project related research and reduce possible
duplication of operations. The Project would include provision for the staff
and other operating costs of the Unit. It would also provide for 7 additional
staff (5 TA's and two supervisory staff), one house, a 4-wheel drive vehicle
and a motorcycle.
3.15      Fisheries.  The Project would continue and expand the fisheries
development program initiated under the second phase project. This program
would include construction of infrastructure, extension of credit for pur-
chase of canoes, training of fishermen, and pollution monitoring. Four new
centralized boat landings would be constructed, along with some 60 smoking
kilns (these were successfully introduced in the second phase to replace the
traditional, but inefficient, smoking pit). Seven additional staff would be
recruited to assist with the training of 1,000-1,200 additional fishermen in



- 18 -
the use of improved fishing gear and modern kilns. Credit would also be
extended to fishermen to enable them to purchase some 500 plank type canoes
to be built by an existing factory in this area. Finally the Project would
continue an ongoing program whereby regular water, soil and fish samples
are sent to the Tropical Products Institute (TPI) laboratory in London for
analysis to check on the level of pesticide residues; corrective measures
would be introduced where necessary. In order to implement these activities,
the Project would include provision for staff salaries, vehicles, a motor-
boat, a VHF radio and operating costs.
3.16      Forestry.  A Forestry Unit would be established in the Natural
Resources Division to oversee implementation of the Project's reforestation
program.  The program would:
(a) institute a planting program for the reforestation of
those areas, particularly the East Bank and West Bank
escarpments, which have been denuded of natural tree
cover by the high demand for land, building poles and
fuelwood;
(b) investigate the adaptibility of tree species to the Lower
Shire environment and encourage the planting of village
woodlots and shelter belts;
(c) increase control of gazetted forests and advise the local
authorities on the most economic principles of tree usage
and management;
(d) teach silvicultural techniques and their management so as
to ensure optimum tree exploitation and sound conservation
measures; and
(e) attempt to reduce or rectify erosion problems that have
arisen due to uncontrolled and indiscriminate tree
exploitation.
3.17      A primary goal of the program would be the involvement of the local
population in the planting and care of forestry plantations. With this par-
ticipation, the people would be made to understand the importance of pre-
venting livestock from destroying young seedlings and the need for control
of indiscriminate burning. However, because there would be competition for
labor at a time when farmers are busy with maize planting and weeding, the
tree-p anting would have to be started with a regular forestry team supple-
mented by local volunteer labor. Farmer and villager activity would be
increased each year as the planting areas are expanded. The Project's for-
estry staff would be responsible for organizing, training and supervising
all field activity; the staff would include a senior forester and several
assistants, including a forest officer with experience in semi-arid zones.
Provision would also be made for vehicles (including 2 farm tractors), staff
housing and operating costs.



- 19 -
3.18      Wildlife.  Wildlife conservation activities under the second phase
were concerned with the extension and demarcation of the Mwabvi and Lengwe
game reserves and the posting of Game Scouts to monitor activities within
these areas. The project also assisted with the development of a road net-
work to facilitate tourism, the construction of fences and game ditches, and
the institution of crop protection and anti-poaching measures. The Project
would complete these activities. It would include provision for boundary
demarcation and construction of fences, and ditches. Existing overnight
tourist accomodations in Lengwe, which are in great demand, would be in-
creased from two 4-bed chalets to five chalets with 17 beds; electricity,
and running water would be installed and a mobile radio and a telephone sys-
tem provided to improve communications necessary for tourist arrangements
and park administration. Finally the Project would provide staff housing
and vehicles. The wildlife activities would be executed by the Senior Game
Warden, assisted by a Senior Game Ranger and 19 Game Scouts.
Hydrology and Water Supply
3.19      Hydrology.  An experienced hydrogeologist would be recruited to
investigate hydrogeologic conditions, to conduct hydrology studies, to oversee
the construction of boreholes, to assist in the reconstruction of failed
boreholes, to determine the location and availability of ground water for
public supply and irrigation, and to assist in designing a master plan for
water development. The information accumulated would provide the basis for
deep drilling exploration of possible groundwater sources capable of suppor-
ting irrigation units. The Project would finance purchase of a complete
trailer-mounted rotary drilling machine and provide for training for an
operating crew; the Project would also finance a gamma ray and electric logger
to log all new wells and all old cased wells. This process would provide the
Project hydrogeologist with data to locate new wells, to correlate data from
well to well to determine the lateral and vertical extent of aquifers and
conferring beds, and to help determine the ultimate yield of the aquifers
for irrigation or other purposes. In order to provide information about the
sediment yield of the streams in the lower valley, the Project would establish
an 8-station sediment sampling network at existing stream gauging stations,
and provide for a neutron probe for soil moisture study. In the Elephant
Marsh, staff gauges for marsh water levels have been installed, and new rain
gauges will be installed at Kasinthula, Capananga and Nsanje. The Project
would finance all operating costs of the water development program, and
would in addition provide for 4 staff houses, and several vehicles. Finally,
Project funds have been provided to finance a feasibility study for the
development of a surface water irrigation project (US$255,000.00). Since this
study will raise irrigation policy issues that will require resolution on a
national basis it is a credit condition for funding the Shire Study, for
the Government to undertake an initial study which will review existing ir-
rigation schemes, organization, financing and policies. It would examine the
justification for irrigation development generally and would suggest revisions
where necessary to existing policy so that irrigation expansion takes places
in an economic and rational manner. The cost of the National Study has been
estimated at US$225,000.00. The terms of reference and consultants to be used
for the Shire study would be agreed with IDA.



- 20 -
3.20      Water Supply. The Project would finance construction, under the
supervision of the staff hydrogeologist, of 40 additional boreholes and 40
shallow-wells, both with hand operated pumps for village potable water.
The Government Hydrological Department would provide suitable well screens
from either local manufacturers or import sources to properly develop the
wells' capacity. A program of pumping tests would be started on new bore-
holes to determine aquifer properties, and during drilling the specific
conductance of water encountered would be determined to build knowledge
of water quality so as to help solve the problems of salinity. A specific
conductance meter would be provided under the Project. To obtain greater
village participation in the operation of village water supplies, the agri-
cultural extension field staff, in cooperation with Public Health Workers,
would train village teams in routine maintenance. Wells and surrounding
ground have generally been badly neglected and contamination and siltation
has resulted. Unless villagers assume the responsibility for maintaining
well fencing and the concrete surrounds, it would be useless to drill addi-
tional boreholes. It will be a condition of disbursement for financing
additional boreholes that a program satisfactory to IDA for achieving these
objectives has been drawn up, and Government has agreed to implement it.
Health
3.21      The Project would continue and expand the comprehensive health
program now underway in the Shire Valley. Two new maternity/dispensary sub-
centers and four health posts would be constructed. The bilharzia control
program would also be expanded by construction of field latrines and village
bathing/laundry facilities. The Project would also include provision for three
motor vehicles, and 3 motorcycles. The program would be staffed and managed
by the Ministry of Health under supervision of the Senior Public Health Offi-
cer based in Ngabu working with SVADP management.
Technical Services
3.22      Roads.  The Project would upgrade and expand the system of secondary
and district roads which service the main agricultural areas in the Valley,
and would maintain those roads already completed under the first and second
phase projects.  The new construction would comprise:  (i) improvement of
86 km of secondary roads; (ii) improvement of 32 km of district crop extrac-
tion and feeder roads; and (iii) construction of 21 km of district roads to
fish landings. It was agreed at negotiations that maintenance of main and
secondary roads in the Valley would be the responsibility of the Ministry of
Works and Supplies (MOW). District roads would be maintained by the Project
road maintenance unit during the construction phase.  It was also agreed
that at project completion MOW (or district councils, if they are suitably
equipped) will be responsible for maintaining the district roads. In order
to facilitate this program, the Project would include provision for the pur-
chase of a grader, 3 dump trucks, a tractor, a 4-WD vehicle, two motorcycles,
equipment, and three staff houses; it would also provide for vehicle and
equipment operating costs and for salaries.



- 21 -
3.23      Building and Mechanical Maintenance.  The Project maintenance
units provide maintenance service for the repair and upkeep of all Project
housing, vehicles and equipment. The unit has a well equipped auto and
machine maintenance depot and has been able to provide effective repair
service for Pro4ect equipment. The Project would provide incremental housing
(where necessary), two 4-WD vehicles, 5 motorcycles, 1 tractor, 1 dump truck
and an assortment of machinery and equipment as well as operating costs for
these units.
Proiect Administration
3.24      Project Manager's Office.  A total of eleven additional staff would
be recruited for the Project Manager's Office. These would include 1 Techni-
cal Officer, 2 Senior Technical Assistants (Senior Clerks), and 8 Clerical
Officers (typists and clerks). These staff would be required to handle the
increased volume of work arising out of the expansion of the program to cover
additional smallholders. Housing (where required), offices, equipment and
vehicles would also be provided.
3.25      Evaluation Unit.  The existing Evaluation Unit has developed a
nucleus of experienced field enumerators and supervisory staff, and a tech-
nique of annual farm surveys similar to those used by Karonga and Lilongwe
Projects. The Project would provide for development of a common computer
package program for analysis of the annual farm survey data, and a number
of small surveys to be conducted in the field on specialized topics as re-
quested by management. Crop marketing, credit recovery, and unit data bank
statistics would also be collated and circulated as routine information.
Close liaison would be maintained with other evaluation units of the National
Statistics Office and the Headquarters Planning Unit to provide uniformity in
field surveys and reporting techniques. Because of the recent wide fluctua-
tions in valley crop production, Project evaluation staff plan to provide
management with continuing statistical feedback related to all crop produc-
tion. A survey design has been prepared which will directly address the
agricultural, sociological, and economic factors affecting adoption rates of
recommended packages. Results of the monitoring will assist extension,
research and training units in shaping their responses to field developments.
Additional staff required to assist in the implementation of these activities
would be 1 Professional Officer and 16 Technical Assistants (enumerators and
analysts). The Project would also include provision for purchase of computer
time, housing, and vehicles.
3.26      Finance Division.  Additional staff would also be recruited for the
Finance Division. These would include 2 Accountants and 1 Procurement and
Stores Officer. Three clerks would be upgraded to Senior Clerical Officer.
These staff would be provided with office equipment and supplies.
3.27      MANR Planning Unit.  The Project will finance for two years the
services of an internationally recruited expert to fill the position of
Chief of MANR's Planning Unit, and the training of a Malawian national to
replace him within that period.



- 22 -
C. Prolect Cost (Table T-2)
3.28      The total cost of the proposed Project is estimated at MK 11.4
million (US$12.6 million), of which about US$5.8 million or 46% represents
foreign exchange requirements. Total Project cost is detailed below:
Foreign
Exchange
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total         Z
------MK'000------    -------US$000-- ----
Agricultural Services
Extension                   631    362       993     694      398      1,092    36
Training                    247    127       374     272      140        412    34
Research                    522    192       714     574      211        785    27
Seed Multiplication         148    626       774     163      687        850    81
Credit Administration       238     93       331     262      102        365    28
Animal Husbandry            237    414       651     261      455        716    64
Sub-total             2,023  1,814    3,837   2,225   1,995        4,220    47
Natural Resources                                                -
Land Husbandry              129    103       232      142     113        255    44
Fisheries                   133     75       208      146      83        229    36
Forestry                    228    104       332     251      114        365    31
Wildlife                     71     52       123       78      57        135    42
Sub-total               561    334        895     617      367        984    37
Hydrology and Water Supply  387    510         897      426     561        987    57
Health Services               217    146       363      239     161        400    40
Technical Services
Roads                       356    669    1,025      392      736      1,128    65
Building Maintenance        388    211       599     427      232        659    35
Mechanical Maintenance       81     46       127       89      51        140    36
Sub-total               827    925    1,752       910   1,018      1,927    53
Administration
Project Manager's Office  494    447         941     543      492      1,035    47
Evaluation Unit             194     80       274     213       88        301    29
Finance Division            221     83       304     243       91        334    27
Sub-total               909    610    1,519   1,000        671      1,671    40 
Base Cost                   4,924  4,338    9.262   5,416   4,772    10,188    47
Physical Contingencies    245    218         463      270     240        510    45
Price Contingencies       1.054    664    1.718   1,159       730      1,890    39
Total Project Cost          6.209  5,234   11,443   6,830   5,757    12.,588    46



- 23 -
Project costs were evaluated at prices prevailing in April 1978. There are
no taxes and duties. A physical contingency of 5% was applied to all costs,
this is a weighted average of all activities and will vary by individual
component; price contingencies were applied as below:
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4
1978/79   1979/80    1980/81  1981/82
Local Costs           10%         9%          8%      8%
Foreign Costs           7.0%      6.5%        6.0%    6.0%
D. Financing
3.29      The financing of project costs would be shared in the following
amounts and proportions:
US$ million         %  of Total
IDA                           10.7                   85
Government                     1.9                   15
Total                   12.6                   100
The proposed IDA credit would be on standard terms to Government. It would
finance the Project's foreign exchange costs (US$5.8 million) and about
72% (US$4.9 million) of local costs.   It is recommended that any Project
related expenditures incurred after the final disbursements for the phase II
project (April 1978) and before credit signing, would be eligible for retro-
active financing; retroactive financing is expected to total about US$600,000.
E. Procurement (Table T-11) l/
3.30      Procurement of vehicles, machinery and equipment (US$1.6 million) in
orders of $50,000 or over would be subject to international competitive bid-
ding according to IDA guidelines; orders would be bulked whenever possible.
Civil works, boreholes, wells, staff housing, and other buildings (US$1.6
million), which due to their small size and dispersed locations would not
attract international competitive bidding, would be constructed after local
1/   Amounts are expressed without contingencies.



- 24 -
competitive bidding or by force account.  Purchase of office equipment (US$.016
million) would be subject to local competitive bidding in accordance with
existing Government tender procedures; all tenders would be processed by the
Malawi Government Central Tender Board, whose procedures are acceptable to
IDA. Construction of secondary and district roads would be the responsibility
of the SVADP road construction unit during the life of the Project, and by MOW
or the District Councils thereafter. Drifts and culverts would be constructed
by independent contractors after local competitive bidding or by force account;
these works would be supervised by the Ministry of Works. It was agreed at
negotiations that the above procurement procedures would be followed.
F. Disbursement (Table T-3 and Chart C-3)
3.31      The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed on the following
basis:
(a) 100% of the foreign costs if directly purchased
and 85% of local costs of vehicles and equipment
if imported and purchased locally (US$1.41 mil-
lion);
(b) 85% of the total costs of civil works (US$1.66
million);
(c) 100% of the foreign costs of internationally
recruited personnel (US$0.28 million);
(d) 85% of the total of all operating costs and all
other personnel costs (US$4.91 million);
(e) 100% of the foreign costs and 85% of total costs
of consultancies (US$0.40 million).
An amount of US$2.04 million would be unallocated. Disbursements against
(a), (c), (e) and the contractual portion of (b) would be fully documented.
Disbursements against (d) and the force account work of (b) would be made
against statements of expenditure certified by the Project Manager and the
Financial Controller; the documents for these expenditures would not be
submitted for review but would be retained by the Borrower and would be
available for inspection by IDA in the course of normal supervision missions.
Any funds remaining in the credit account upon completion of the Project
would be available for reallocation for financing supplementary Project
related expenditures, subject to the approval of IDA.
3.32      As indicated in paragraph 3.03, the Project costs outlined above
exclude certain expenditures by the Project entity which are to be considered



- 25 -
as recurrent expenditures and totally financed by the Government. The costs
total MK 1.5 million over the Project period. For the purpose of disbursement
under item (d) of the preceding paragraph, it was agreed during negotiations
that these recurrerkt costs would be deducted from the Project entity's ex-
penditure on operating costs and other personnel costs before arriving at
the base figure to which the 85% disbursement factor would be applied under
the following schedule: not less than (A) MK 100,000 in fiscal year 1978/79,
(B) MK 438,000 in fiscal year 1979/80, (C) MK 470,000 in fiscal year 1980/81,
(D) MK 496,000 in fiscal year 1981/82.
3.33      An estimated schedule of disbursements is given below, and a Proj-
ect Implementation Schedule is available in Chart C-3.
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD                                          Quarterly        Cumulative
Fiscal Year              Quarter           Disbursements   Disbursements
---- ---(FS$ OO) ________
1978/79           September 30, 1978             -                 -
December 31, 1978             1,000         - 1,000
March 31,1979                 2,000            3,000
June 30, 1979                 1,500            4,500
1979/80           September 30, 1979              700            5,200
December 31, 1979               600            5,800
March 31, 1980                  600            6,400
June 30, 1980                   600            7,000
1980/81           September 30, 1980              600            7,600
December 31, 1980               500            8,100
March 31, 1981                  500            8,600
June 30, 1981                   500            9,100
1981/82           September 30, 1981              600           9,700
December 31, 1981               500           10,200
March 31, 1982                  500           10,700
G.  Accounts. Audit and Reports
3.34      During the life of the Project, accounts would be maintained at
Project Headquarters at Ngabu, with separate accounts identified for credit
fund operations. Phase I and II accounts have been audited by the Auditor
General, and as this arrangement has proved satisfactory to IDA, this
procedure would be followed for the proposed Project. It was agreed during
negotiations that accounts would continue to be audited by an independent



- 26 -
auditor satisfactory to IDA and that accounts would be submitted to the
Association no later than six months after the close of the financial year.
It was also agreed during negotiations that Government would, promptly after
completion of the Project but no later than three months after the credit
closing date, prepare a completion report on the execution of the Project,
its costs and benefits, and its major accomplishments. Under Phases I and II
quarterly reports have been regularly submitted and it was agreed that this
practice will continue.
H. Environmental Effects
3.35      The Natural Resources Division of the Project Unit would be pri-
marily concerned with monitoring the environmental effects of the Project.
Regular sampling is being done and checks would be continued on the pesti-
cide content of the Shire River and its major tributaries to monitor any
possible effects from the cotton spraying program. The Project would enforce
measures to control erosion and river siltation caused by forest cutting and
cultivation of the escarpments surrounding the Valley. The forest reserves
and game parks in and adjoining the Valley will be maintained. Steps are
also being taken in the Project (para. 3.10 (ii)), to stabilize the growth
of livestock herds in an effort to prevent overgrazing, another contributing
factor to the erosion problem. SVADP related activity has been centered
mostly on the Valley floor, and erosion problems that may have developed
because of cultivation of the foothills cannot be attributed to the program,
but are a result of population pressure on the land. The Project goals of
increased yields per hectare on the most suitable land areas would help to
reduce the rate of increase in cultivation of the foothills.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT - (Chart C-1)
4.01      The Project would be a direct continuation of the second phase
project, and would be carried out by the existing SVADP staff, supplemented
by those staff to be recruited specifically for the third (consolidation)
phase. No substantive changes are envisaged in the existing organizational
structure (Chart C-1). The Project Manager would continue to be responsible
to the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
(MANR), who would provide overall policy guidance for the program. The Proj-
ect Manager's office would oversee the four main operational divisions (Agri-
culture, Natural Resources, Finance, Technical) and the Ancillary Services
Division. The health component would be administered by the Ministry of
Health. ADMARC would oversee construction of the markets and input stores.
4.02      The Agricultural Division is headed by a Senior Agricultural Offi-
cer, who simultaneously is in charge of the Extension section of the Division.
In view of the scarcity of qualified nationals this post is likely to continue
to be filled by an internationally recruited officer. The same division



- 27 -
is headed at sectional level by a S9 or a Professional officer. The main
activities supervised by the Division are: agricultural extension, agricul-
tural research, agricultural credit, livestock, and farmer and staff training.
The Natural Resources Division implements and supervises five main activities:
land husbandry, forestry, fisheries, hydrology and potable water, and wild-
life. The P.O. in charge of the Land Husbandry section would head the Divi-
sion, and would maintain close liaison with the extension, livestock, and
research sections of the Agricultural Division due to the overlapping sphere
of interests of both divisions. The Finance Division, under the Project Fi-
nancial Controller, would maintain constant liaison with the Senior Financial
Controller based in Lilongwe to ensure that national policies are being
implemented and programs adapted accordingly. Due to the highly complicated
nature of the semi-computerized accounting system, the post of Financial
Controller would be held by an internationally recruited officer, who would
set up a program to train professional staff who can gradually take over con-
trol of the Division during the life of the Project. The Technical Division
would be headed by a Professional Engineer, who would be in charge of the
roads construction and maintenance section and also be responsible for build-
ing and maintenance, and aechanical maintenance. The Ancillary Services
Division would coordinate Public Health, Community Development and other
related activities and provide assistance to the executing officers in
carrying out Project development activities.
4.03      The above organization has worked well during Phase I and II.
However, there is a need to improve the extension/training/research sections
of the organization as described in paras. 3.04, 3.05 and 3.06.
4.04      A number of posts are particularly critical to the success of the
project: Project Manager; Senior Agricultural Officer; Senior Research
Officer; Senior Veterinary Officer (Tsetse study); Hydrogeologist; Evaluation
Officer; and Financial Controller. All are currently adequately filled;
however, it was agreed during negotiations that they would continue to be
filled by suitably qualified staff and that any replacement would be selected
after consultation with IDA.
4.05      At the start of the Phase II project, there were 12 inter-
nationally-recruited staff in senior positions; during its course, one was
replaced by a Malawian (the senior fisheries officer). The 11 inter-
nationally-recruited staff at the beginning of Phase III occupy the 7 posi-
tions mentioned in the preceding paragraph, as well as the senior training
officer; the chief livestock officer; the senior roads engineer; and the land
husbandry officer. There are, in addition, 16 senior grade Malawian staff.
It is expected that MANR will continue to assign qualified Malawian staff to
the project in order to provide them with the on-the-job-training necessary
to qualify them for taking over these 12 positions. During negotiations,
it was agreed that the Borrower shall prepare and send to the Association no
later than March 31, 1979, a program for the recruitment and training for
purposes of the Project of suitably qualified Malawi nationals in numbers



- 28 -
adequate to assume, by the completion of the Project, responsibilities cur-
rently being undertaken by internationally recruited staff and, after
consultation with the Association, the Borrower shall carry out the program as
finally formulated.
V. PRODUCTION. MARKETS AND PRICES. AND FINANCIAL BENEFITS
Background
5.01      Improved research, extension, training and land husbandry services
would provide the basis for the improvements in traditional methods necessary
to develop an increase in major crop yields. The Project extension service
was expanded very rapidly at the onset of Phase II, and was staffed at the
village level with inexperienced Development Assistants (DA); many of these
staff have since qualified for Colby Agricultural Training College, and fol-
lowing completion of their course have returned to the Valley to be assigned
as Technical Assistants (TA's) on a permanent basis. Further upgrading of DA
staff will continue under the Consolidation Phase. The intensified extension
system can only be effective if it has an acceptable package to extend to the
Project's smallholders. Although progress in development of improved cereal
grain varieties had been slow during the previous two projects, there have
recently been good results in iden.tifying maize, sorghum and millet varieties
better suited for Valley conditions. A full supply for Valley planting should
be available by the second or third year of the Project.
A. Production (Table T-5)
Crop Package and Yields
5.02      Projections of Project crop yields and total production are based
upon adoption by smallholders of a basic package of practices designed to
reduce the risks of the periodic dry spells which have historically affected
Valley production. In addition to improved drought resistant cereal varie-
ties, the package includes pest control measures and moisture conserving land
preparation methods. The latter calls for early plowing, ridging and contour
planting to take full advantage of the first rains and provide a moisture
conserving environment for the balance of the growing season. Specific crop
packages have been developed for each of the five ecological zones in the
Project area. The crops recommended are traditional for the various regions,
and adoption of the basic package (Stage I) would only require farmer's
acceptance of a relatively simple change in his present methods and minimal
cash inputs. Improved practices would be recommended for all commonly grown
crops; however, the individual packages for the five zones (Table T-6) each
include one or two major crops representing the bulk of the farmer's planted
area, while the other crops listed are usually grown only to supplement the
family diet. The package approach would concentrate on the major crops in the
unit.



- 29 -
5.03      For cotton, Stage I includes (in addition to the cultivation
practices mentioned above) 5 or 6 sprayings and regular weeding and thinning
to establish the recommended plant population. Fertilizer is not recommended
since trials with fertilizer have shown no appreciable response in Valley
soils under rairfed conditions. For the cereal grain and groundnuts, Stage
I calls for improved seed and land preparation practices similar to those
recommended for cotton. A second level of crop improvement practices (Stage
II) is anticipated among more advanced farmers; this would include the use
of fertilizer, and additional sprayings. Second stage practices would only
be applied in selected locations where soil moisture can be depended upon
for fertilizer response. This would be mostly in the higher rainfall escarp-
ment and the dimba areas. (The latter is the local term for the flood plains
bordering the Shire and its tributaries where after the wet season, high water
recedes and crops can be grown through the dry season on the rich alluvial
borders. Maize and rice are the common dimba crops.) Average yields of
adopting farmers are expected to increase as follows:
- -       -------kg/ha----
Traditional
Crops                    Method              Stage I              Stage II
Cotton                      350                750                    1/
Maize                       600                850                  1,500
Dimba Maize               1,000              1,800                  2,500
Sorghum                     450                650                 1,200
Millet                      450                600                    700
Rice (Dimba)                800              1,100                 1,600
Groundnuts (unshelled)      400                550                    700
1/   Stage II for cotton is not recommended, since the return from the
fertilizer and additional spraying is not economically justifiable.
Yield increases have been projected at realistic levels. Experience with
production results over the past several years indicates the danger in pro-
jecting overly-optimistic returns in the Valley's marginal rainfall environ-
ment. Consequently Project yields have been adjusted to allow for a dry
year every fourth year which reduces average yields by about 20%. Although
adopters of improved practices for cotton in Phase I attained average yields
of 1,050 kg/ha, their production declined to an average of 540 kg/ha in
1972/73 because of reduced rainfall. Phase II appraisal projections predicted
1,000 kg/ha average cotton yields for improved farmers, but because of a
serious drought and poor price incentive yields dropped as low as 400 kg/ha in
1975/76. Cotton yields recovered in 1976, and were estimated at close to 600
kg/ha in 1976/77, despite an estimated 20-25% loss due to a mice infestation
that spoiled the last of the crop. There is only limited information avail-
able on cereal grain yields; however, total production figures seem to indi-
cate maize yields have generally followed the same pattern, as unfavorable
weather and the lack of suitably adapted seeds caused wide fluctuations in
yield. Sorghum yields have been fairly consistent despite the dry years,



- 30 -
although the unavailability of higher yielding varieties has kept overall
yields below Valley potential. Project yields have been calculated with an
allowance for: (i) the risk of recurring dry seasons and (ii) the probability
that the total land available for the expanded project would be on average
less potentially productive than the highly productive black cotton soils of
the central valley.
Seed Production
5.04      The Project would provide for the production and distribution
of a guaranteed supply of suitable seed, produced under careful supervision,
properly cleaned and treated for disease and pest resistence. Improved
drought-resistent varieties of cereal grain (maize, sorghum and millet)
seed would be selected and multiplied to meet Project needs at the proposed
irrigated seed selection and multiplication farm at Makanga. The maize
hybrid SR 52 now most commonly used has proven unsatisfactory in Valley
conditions, and several proven low-altitude, drought resistant varieties
are being produced under license from Pioneer Seed Company. In addition,
a local maize composite, Malahanga, that has yielded over 1,500 kg/ha in
rainfed trial plots, is being multiplied by the research staff who - with
careful selection and crosses to several CYMMIT composites - are developing
a hardy locally adapted composite to supplement the Pioneer hybrids. The
commonly used white sorghum varieties would be replaced by the higher yield-
ing disease resistant Lindsey 555 and Thengalamanga, both of which have been
thoroughly tested in typical Valley conditions. Eleven trial plots of one
acre each yielded an average of 1840 kg/ha of Lindsey 555 and 18 similar
plots of Thengalamanga yielded 1960 kg/ha; neither sets of trials using fer-
tilizer. Work on breeding improved varieties of cotton will be carried
on at the MANR Station at Kasinthula where soils are ideally suited for cotton
production. Multiplication and distribution of the new cotton varieties would
follow widespread experimental plantings to fully test all aspects of the
seed; no project benefits have been assumed from these hoped for future cotton
improvements. Production of seed for sale to Project smallholders is projec-
ted to reach 225 m tons of maize, 225 m tons of sorghum, 70 m tons of millet,
62 m tons of groundnuts, 44 m tons of guar beans and 75 tons of edible beans
in 1981/82 (Year 4). Seed production at Makanga will be coordinated with
seed production on government seed farms in the highland regions with seed
varieties to be adapted for sea level production being produced at Makanga
while varieties for higher elevations will be produced outside the Valley.
Crop Production (Table T-5)
5.05      At full development, incremental production of major field crops
would be derived primarily from increased yields, as the total areas planted
would remain fairly constant. As detailed in Table T-5, the area in improved
practices is projected to increase from 11,000 ha to 50,000 ha.  Table T-7
provides a summary of commodity budgets for the major crops and identifies the
yields and the resulting gross margins of unimproved and improved practices,
by full development. On these assumptions, the Project's incremental pro-
duction would be as below:



- 31 -
Incremental Production, 1982/83 (Year 5)
Crop                  Stage I           Stage II
-    --ha------------                m tons
Cotton                 3,300               -               4,320
Maize                 12,500             2,700             5,555
Dimba Maize            1,350             1,080             2,700
Sorghum                5,300               900             1,600
Millet                 4,500               900               900
Dimba Rice             1,500               450             2,800
Groundnuts               720               -                 153
Guar Beans             1,800                               1,620
Leuceana                 450                               2,700
Livestock Production and Fisheries
5.06      With the improvements in extension support, marketing facilities
and control of FMD and trypanosomiasis under the Project, and with the grow-
ing demand for young feeder cattle, cattle sales are expected to increase
steadily. Annual offtake should increase from the present 9% (5,400 head) to
12% (8,800 head) at full development (year 6). Without the P-roject, un-
controlled herd growth could lead to serious feed shortages and consequently
higher mortality and lower reproductive rates; the absence of FMD control, the
increasing threat of tsetse, and poor extension and veterinary services would
add a further constraint to increased sales. With the Project, incremental
sales would total approximately 550 tons of beef per annum. With continued
Project support for training 1,200 fishermen, and establishing modern smoking
kilns and added boat landings production should increase by 2,700 tons per
annum (see Table T-8).
B. Markets and Prices
5.07      There is sufficient demand for all Project output of food and cash
crops, meat and fish, within the Valley and in adjacent regions. Cotton
produced in the Shire Valley is a strong medium-to-long staple; the lint
is classified at higher grades and is in strong demand on both the foreign
and domestic markets. It consistently brings about a 10% premium over similar
grades on the world market because of its superior quality. Cotton seed
oils are used domestically to substitute for imported vegetable oils and the
cake is used in livestock feeds. The Valley is a deficit area for cereal
grains and local demand usually forces prices up well over Government an-
nounced sale prices. It is expected that the increased production from the
improved maize and sorghum varieties to be introduced by the Project would
reduce the deficit and provide an improved diet for the Valley population.
Rice and groundnut    production is relatively low in total tonnage, but with
attractive world market prices, production should increase to the maximum
possible on the available suitable land. Meat sales, when not barred by FMD,



- 32 -
have been steady with good demand by buyers from outside the Valley who
purchase both slaughter and feeder stock. Sales of smoked fish from modern
kilns have also been strong, with a steady demand by traders from the area
surrounding the Valley.
Crops
5.08      ADMARC (para 1.08) maintains a well established network of 43 mar-
kets in the Shire Valley, which are controlled from the Divisional Office
at Ngabu.  This represents an average of one market per 1,500 farm families,
and it is estimated that over 90% of growers live within three miles of a
market. Each year, before start of the growing season, ADMARC recommends and
the Government determines guaranteed minimum prices for all crops to be
purchased. Prices are fixed countrywide with the twofold objective of insuring
a reasonable return to the farmer and earning surpluses to support national
development programs. ADMARC justifies its approach to price setting on the
grounds of holding down domestic inflationary factors. In the case of cotton,
this policy has proved a disincentive to increased production; Shire Valley
cotton plantings have declined from 29,000 ha in 1973/74 to 20,000 ha in
1976/77, although yields (except for the severe drought years) have remained
relatively stable. ADMARC announced a 17% price increase for seed cotton just
prior to the 1977/78 planting season, and recent information from the field
indicates an increase in plantings. Farmgate prices for cotton in 1977 were
23 tambala (t)/kg for Grade A, 18.0 t/kg for Grade B, and 13.0 t/kg for Grade
C. A 3.3 t/kg increase for all grades was announced for the 1977/78 crop
season, which will average out to about 24 t/kg for the three grades. This
was the largest single seasonal advance in the past ten years.  This increase
served to somewhat lessen the gap between the Grade C price and the average of
the A and B prices; it is now about 67% of the average farmgate price (the
composite price of all three grades). In previous years, the relatively
lower price for Grade C made it often less than economically feasible to
provide the labor for the last cotton picking (which usually grades low).
The new prices should provide an incentive to farmers to pick their fields
clean. Prices for the major food crops, maize, sorghum and millet are also
set by ADMARC; however, since the Valley is a deficit food grain area, small-
holders with a surplus over family needs trade freely on local markets for the
best price obtainable. The price used in calculating financial benefits for
maize, MK 82/m ton, which is the price a farmer must pay when he purchases
maize for his family's food and other cereal grains are priced accordingly.
Livestock
5.09      Livestock are marketed at the public sales installations located
in centers of livestock concentrations; six such markets with weighing plat-
forms, water supplies and buildings for attendants were constructed in Phase
II, and the Project would finance a seventh. Sales are conducted at regular
intervals and are supervised by the Veterinary Department of MANR. Except
when FMD forced cancellation of sales, the auction markets have functioned
effectively, and demand has always been high for Valley animals because of
their size and generally good body condition. The CSC, and local and Blantyre



- 33 -
butchers all participate in the auctions; given this competition, livestock
owners generally obtain a fair price for their animals. FMD recurrences,
however, remain a risk although the Project's valley-wide vaccination pro-
gram should reduce.the probability of frequent outbreaks. Prices at the
sales are calculated on actual liveweight of the animal before it enters
the auction ring; they range from MKO.06/kg to MKO.07/kg, well over the
announced floor prices of MKO.05/kg for commercial grade and MKO.4/kg for
standard grade.
Fish
5.10      Seventy percent of the annual fish catch is consumed locally; the
balance is sold to traders from areas outside the Valley.  With the use of
the modern fish smoking kilns, the demand and the value of the traditional
catch has improved dramatically. Smoked fish are now bringing MKO.24/kg;
previously most fishermen sold their fish unsmoked at MK0.07/kg, while a
small percentage smoked by the traditional method brought about MKO.20/kg.
C. Farmer Benefits
5.11      The project would provide direct and/or indirect services for
just about all the 70,000 families in the project area. Some 55 percent
of these or about 40,000 farm families are expected to benefit directly from
the project's increased and intensified extension and training system, and
by applying the improved packages would receive the benefits of increased
production. Typical farm production units were estimated on the basis of crop
combinations best suited for each ecological zone in the Project area; these
were then used to calculate incremental Project production as a result of the
Project. Farm budgets for each of the zones are shown in Table T-6. The
following is a farm budget for a smallholder unit in the Tomali and Makande
Plain, the most intensive cotton producing zone:
Planted     Production (kg)        Gross Value (MK)
Production             Area (ha)  Unimproved  Improved  Unimproved  Improved
(Stage-I)             (Stage-I)
Cotton                   0.84         290          630       69.60     151.20
Rainfed Maize            0.43         260          370       21.32      30.34
Dimba Rice                0.08         80          140        6.56      11.43
White Sorghum             0.30        140          200       10.92      15.60
Millet                    0.20         90          120        5.90       9.20
Groundnuts               0.01          -            10       -           -
Total          1.94         920        1.550     114.30     217.77



- 34-
Production Costs                                 Unimproved  Improved
--------MK---------
Seed                                              2.70        3.20
Insecticides 1/                                     -        23.80
Fertilizer                                          -         2.70
Other Materials  2/                               2.90        6.70
Sub-total                                       5.60       36.40
Net Farm Benefit                                    108.70      181.37
Total Mandays                                   190         230
Return Per Manday                                 0.57        0.79
1/ Includes 15% credit charge.
2/ Such as tools, baskets, transportation, sprayer costs, etc.
The unit shows an increase in subsistence and cash crop income of MK73 over
the "without project" situation; this represents a 66% increase in net return
and an increase of MKO.22 per manday of labor for all days worked--the mar-
ginal return per manday is MK 1.80. The farm units in the five ecological
zones would increase the net value of crops with the Project as follows:
Net Income (MK)         Increment
No. of Farms       Zones         Unimproved   Improved       MK     %
7,000      Mwanza and
Nsanje Hills          58          85          27     47
5,000      Mwanza Valley            97         153          56     58
25,000      Tamali and
Makande Plain        109         181          73     67
15,000      East Bank                53          90          37     70
17,000      Tengani and
Nsanje Plain          54          75          21     72
Overall average              74        117          43      58
Smallholders not presently using improved practices but adopting them by
full development could increase an individual family's subsistence and cash
annual income by about US$47.  Intermediate increases in income will be
achieved by farmers already adopting some of the improved practices and by
those who do not apply all of the practices to all their planting.
D. Government Cash Flow (Table T-9)
5.12      Government would not be able to recover fully the on-going expendi-
ture under this Project. After Project completion and excluding debt service



- 35 -
and price contingencies, the annual cost to Government to maintain the level
of extension and other services would total MKO0.527 million; there would be a
total cumulative deficit of MK8.99 million (US$9.88 million), by year 20. In
the Government cash flow, ADMARC profits are assumed to be benefits to the
Government, and have been calculated on the basis of actual avera_s profit on
cotton purchases of the last five years, i.e. 57% of purchase price. It is
assumed that the Credit Fund Surplus would be transferred to the Government
budget after the Project. Possible farmers' contribution to Government reve-
nue through indirect taxes resulting from increased income are expected to be
insignificant and have not been taken into account. This unsatisfactory cash
flow is not unexpected since the Valley smallholder agriculture operates
close to subsistence level and most of the increased production will go to
meeting the present food deficit. The issue of cost recovery and Malawi's
capacity to sustain projects with extensive service components goes beyond
the Consolidation Project and is to be addressed on a national basis in the
context of the proposed National Rural Development Program, which is currently
under appraisal. There was agreement at negotiations that any policies on
cost recovery which may be developed under NRDP, would apply also to the
Shire Consolidation Project.
5.13      During negotiations it was acknowledged by the Malawian delegation
that Government was concerned with the cost recovery problem but because of
the political sensitivity of assessing charges for services that traditionally
have been almost entirely free it was approaching the issue on a selective
basis. Specifically under the Shire Consolidation, services to the livestock
sector, the fisheries industry, and wildlife development would be evaluated
with the objective of obtaining an equitable return for services rendered or
to establish them on a completely self-sustaining basis. The fisheries
development and modernization program has been successful and both fishermen
and buyers are taking over construction and maintenance of kilns. The Con-
solidation Phase input will be sufficient to bring the remaining undeveloped
marsh areas into the marketing sphere and should be the final direct Govern-
ment financed expenditure for fisheries development. With the improvement and
expansion of the chalets at the Lengwe Game Park, there will be enough accom-
modations to provide for operation of the Park at a break even if not at
a profitable level. Increasing charges for the various livestock services
presents a more difficult problem since Government has attempted to hold
cattle prices at levels well below export parity levels. Under this price
constraint livestock owners are providing an indirect consumer subsidy and
should not be expected to further reduce their margin by paying for present
services. In fact, increasing dip, vaccination and other similar charges
would probably discourage herders from using these facilities with the result
that the national herd health program could suffer a serious setback.
VI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION - (Table T-10)
6.01      At full development (1982/83), annual incremental crop production
attributable to the Project would be valued at about $1.50 million; cattle



- 36 -
sales and herd values would increase by about $0.33 million, and the value
of incremental fish production would reach $0.22 million. Seed cotton,
the cereal grains, groundnuts, guar beans, and leuceana have been valued at
export parity prices; brewing sorghum, until now an imported commodity, has
been valued at its import parity price. Local market prices have been applied
to locally-smoked fish and beef, 1/ mostly consumed in the Valley and sur-
rounding regions. IBRD commodity price forecasts have been used for rice,
groundnut, beef, and the cereal grains to estimate future real price changes.
6.02      In addition to the quantifiable benefits, the population of the
valley would benefit from improved potable water supplies, health facilities,
roads, and firewood supply. The Project would promote future irrigation de-
velopment through the financing of an irrigation feasibility study.
6.03      The overall economic rate of return (ERR) of the Project over
20 years would be 20% (Table T-10). In the economic analysis, Project and
incremental farmers' costs were included to the extent they contribute to
development of the quantifiable benefits. Total costs of the extension,
training, seed multiplication, credit administration, land husbandry and
fisheries components have been included. The livestock component costs do not
include the cost of Foot and Mouth Disease Control since the program is part
of a nationwide animal health program, the benefits of which cannot be clearly
localized. Some 80% of research costs have been included as these are attri-
butable to activities with a direct impact on present crop and livestock
production; while at least 20% represents an investment for future Valley
development. Two thirds of forestry costs have been included, as these are
estimated to have an impact on agricultural production by reducing erosion and
preventing excessive siltation; the balance of the forestry costs are excluded
as they are directed towards fuelwood production on an experimental scale, the
benefits of which cannot yet be quantified. Half of the costs of the hydrology
and water supply component have been included as they are related to agricul-
tural production, since the village boreholes are used to supply water for
crop spraying and livestock; the other half of the costs are directed towards
potable water supply for human consumption. The cost of the irrigation studies
are excluded. Some 80% of the road construction and maintenance costs have
been included in the economic analysis because they directly support the
development of agriculture, livestock and fisheries; the remainder have been
attributed to roads for public use, the benefits of which have not been quan-
tified. Costs of buildings and mechanical maintenance and of administrative
services (management, evaluation and finance components) have been included
at 90% of their financial costs, since the remaining 10% covers overhead
costs which are used in administering the non quantifiable aspects of the
project. Costs and benefits of the wildlife and health components have been
excluded totally from the economic analysis. Additional economic costs of
MKl5,000 per internationally recruited staff member have been included to
reflect costs borne by bilateral donor agencies. All economic costs and
benefits are expressed in constant 1976/77 MK.
1/  If beef were valued at import parity prices---and a rational argument
could be made for such valuation--project economic returns would be
higher than have been presented in this analysis.



- 37 -
6.04      The rate of return of the livestock component with 15% of the
economic overhead costs of the Project added, would be 18%. Similarly, the
fisheries component, with 5% of the economic overhead charges, would show an
ERR of 44%.
6.05      As noted in the review of the earlier Phase II project (paragraph
2.14), the Consolidation Phase III economic and benefits costs have taken as
their starting point the current level of benefits achieved under Phase II,
and the costs needed to maintain them. It could be argued that some of the
benefits attributable to the Consolidation Phase are possible only because of
the previous work done under Phase II and that therefore some of the costs and
benefits assumed in this analysis as belonging to the Consolidation Phase
should be transferred to the Phase II analysis.  If this were so -- and it is
extremely difficult to make a judgement on this matter -- the economic rate of
return on the Consolidation Phase would be somewhat less than the 20% estimated
above. (The combined rate of return for Phase II and the Consolidation Phase
taken together is 8-10%).
Sensitivity
6.06      The ERR would drop to 17% if yields "with Project" were reduced
to only 25% increase over the "without Project" case from the 40% projected
for some crops in the appraisal. A 25% across the board reduction in all
benefits would yield a 12% rate of return. A 10% increase in the adoption
rate would result in a 25% rate of return, and shadow pricing unskilled labor
for cotton picking would reduce the ERR by 2%. l/
Labor Generated and Income Distribution
6.07      In crop production alone, the Project would increase productive
employment by 22%, equivalent to an additional 2.0 million mandays about
7,500 permanent unskilled laborers. Except for a short period during peak
seasonal cotton harvest, these requirements could be met through the popula-
tion increase and a lowering of disguised under-employment. Alternative
labor opportunties in the Valley have declined since the middle years of Phase
II due to the completion of the main highway and most SVADP civil works,
and to the suspension of recruitment for South African work. The labor
needs of the Sucoma Sugar Estate also seem to have stabilized. The project
is expected to increase the per capita income of about 40,000 smallholder
families (para 5.11) and provide important social benefits to about 70,000
families; even so the resultant per capita income in the most productive part
of the project area would only reach some $40 compared to the current national
average of some $130.
1/   On-farm labor has generally been priced at near zero since there is gen-
erally no labor constraint; however, there are occasional labor shortages
during the cotton harvest and a shadow price (amounting to local wage
rates) could justifiably be applied, thus raising the economic costs and
reducing the ERR.



- 38 -
Risks
6.08      The following risks could affect the projected benefits calculated
for the Project. (i) The technical packages. Although the new drought
resistant cereal varieties have been widely tested in trial plots throughout
the Valley, they have been grown under farmer's actual conditions in only a
limited area and only widespread use under varying weather conditions can
furnish a true test.  (ii) Exceptional drought.  As noted in para 5.03 yield
projections (and therefore project benefits) already allow for droughts
occurring once in four or five years. However, no allowance has been made for
two consecutive dry years encountered exceptionally in Phase II. (iii) The
Extension Training and Visit System will have adequate staff and will be
started under a well organized Project management team, however, the system
is new to Malawi and the Valley and will require at least a full season in
the field to be effectively operational. (iv) The possible recurrence of FMD
remains a threat to livestock sales, however, the vaccination program for all
Valley cattle is expected to lower the risk of recurrence.
VII.  ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations it was agreed that:
(a)  sufficient new TA positions would be established to meet
project needs, as follows: 97 positions by May 1 1979;
112 by May 1980; and 132 by May 1981; (para 3.05);
(b)  the Ministry of Works would assume responsibility for
maintaining of Project constructed main and secondary
roads; Ministry of Works or district councils would be
responsible for district roads at project completion
(para 3.22);
(c)  current costs necessary to maintain services for farmers
and fishermen who have achieved Phase II Project goals be
met by Government's revenue budget as presented in para
3.32;
(d)  any replacement of certain staff be made after consulta-
tion with IDA (para 4.04), and the Government will, in
consultation with the Association, prepare a program for
the training of Malawians to replace all the expatriates
in the SVADP management team by 1982 (para 4.05); and
(e)  any policies on cost recovery which may be developed
under NRDP would apply also to the Shire Consolidation
Project (paras 5.12, 5.13).
7.02      It is a condition of the use of funds for the Shire irrigation study
that Government would have initiated an overall national irrigation study on
terms and conditions and with consultants satisfactory to IDA. The terms of



- 39 -
reference and consultants to be used for the Shire study would be agreed with
IDA (para.3.19).
7.03      It is a condition of credit effectiveness that about 150 ha of the
Makanga Research Station has been transferred to Project control and adminis-
tration to be used for seed selection and multiplication (para 3.ud).
7.04      It is a condition of disbursement for financing additional boreholes
that Government prepare a program to involve villagers in regular borehole
and well surrounds maintenance (para. 3.20), satisfactory to IDA with agree-
ment that it be implemented under the Project.
7.05      With these assurances and conditions, the proposed Project is
suitable for an IDA credit of US$10.7 million to the Government of Malawi.



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
MALAWI
Shire Valley Agricultural Consolidation Prolect
Supporting Charts and Tables



- 41 -
Chart -
MALAWI
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
>.9DMARC                 . .f   .i of Treaury___    __  
.~~~~~~~~~~Mn of Helh  mmie=                 mimm
Fofos"        ~~~~Credit AccountsBM
Credit        ~~~Fisheries       Stre &Prcuemn
Livestock  Hydrology and
Pouble Watel B  - 18642
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol Ban - 1864



- 42 -
MALAWI
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL CONSOLIDATION PROJECT                                           Chart - C-2
STAFF ORGANIZATION-EXTENSION
|SENIOR AGRICULtRUAL OFFtCER|
|DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT OFFICER| DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT OFFICR|
|  CHIKWAWA -P.O.                                                                                 NSANJE -P.O.
At...0.                                                                                  Asst. D.D.O.
DO-KI      DO-CK2      DO-CK3       D           DO-CK5      DO-CK6                          DN          OO-NS2       DO-NS3      DO-NS4      DO-NS5
T.O.        T.O.        T.     O.               TO          TOO.                                        T.O.         T.O.        T.O.        T,O.
S.T.A        S.TA
T.A.        T.A.        T.A,        T.A         T.A          T.A                           T.A.         T.A.         T.A.        T.A         T.A
FHII                                             I          FI                        *11111
FHI        FHI          FHI         FHI         FHI          FHI                            FHI         FHI          FH-I        PHI         FHI
KEY:
P.O. PROFESSIONAL OFFICER         NS  NSANJE DISTRICT
DOO. DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT OFFICER   T.O. TECHNICAL OFFICER
D.O. DVELOPMENT OFFICER           T.A. TECHNICAL ASSIST.                                                                            World Bank - 18643
C.K. CHIKWAWA DISTRICT            fHI FARM, HOME INSTRUCTRESS



- 43 -
MALAWI                                                                                             Chart C-3
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
CALENDAR YEAR                             1978                             1979                                         1980                                         1981                              1992
QUARTER                           3          4           1          2          3          4           1         2          3          4           I          2           3          4          1          2
STAFF RECRUITMENT AND PROMOTIONS
CTO and Above                                     7                    3
STA to STO                                  - 3                                 4
DA to TA td Added TA's                         40        0          220    _     7 1 7                            5 6                   5                5                _
STAFF HOUSING CONSTRUCTION
DL-3                                           2         2
EL-2A                                                                4          1
EL-2                                          8                                                 f           0    10 t 7 6   _                      2  2                  1           2          2  _
PL Co.ve,sions                                    5 __      _       r       __          __4_                     4 -         3          4-                    4          3      _               5           55
Low Cont                                                 6          b           5          2          2          1                      2          1          2          1          I           1
RURAL TRAINING CENTERS
District Centers                                         I
Villaoe Center.                                                   _    _ 3     2           3          3          3          3_                                             
FISH LANDING SITES
CONSTRUCTION OF STORES AND OFFICES
Labontorles and Stores
Olffic  BuildI.gs
CONSTRUCTION OF HEALTH CENTERS
Sub-Cant1s
Health Posts
CONSTRUCTION OF BOREHOLES AND WELLS
Shallowalls
ROAD CONSTRUCTION
Standard I                                                  58  MSr
Standard 11                                                                                                           _I
Standard III                                                                                                                               46 KMS
MAKANGA IRRIGATION SYSTEM
Flood Bund
St. Clea-ance
Access Roads
PFnpingp Station
Pipelines. Canals and Drains
Electric Powar Lime
PROCUREMENT
4-Wht-l Driv- Vhthlt                                                           17          _                                                                             2
Pick Up Trucks                                                       4                                                                                         -
Tractors and Equipment                                                                     6                                 2
Trucks                                                                                     5 J                              a                  _
Motorcycles                                                                                 D                               13I                                                                                        17
Vans andt kquipsnuttt_                                                                      =                    _             <_                    
M,,cellbneous Equipment
Well-Driller
Heavy Road Equipmenl Asredlt_                                                   5
World Bank - 18993



MAL
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL CONSOLIDATION PORJECT
Credit Fund Cash Flow
(MK)
Year 1      Year 2        Year 3       Year 4
1976177      1977178      1978/79     1979/80       1980/81      1981/82
Unspent Balance Brought Forward                     1,795         1,631        1,177       1,202        1,063          845
Withdraval of Funds - 1/                                            458
Inflow
Recovery Outstanding Seasonal Loans  2/              57            57           57         -            -            -
Loan Repayments
Seasonal Loans (Principal plus cont.
Less 20% bad debts)                               -             138          169         185          245          341
Medium Term Loans (Principal plus
contingencies less 5% bad debts)                49            86          127         115          137          178
Credit Chargea(Interest)
Seasonal Loans 15% on unpaid principal
plus contingencies)                             -              21           25          28           37           51
Medium Term Loans (10. on unpaid balance
including contingencies less 5% bad debts)    16               22           23          25           31           40
Total Inflow                           122           324          410         353          450          610
Out flow
Utilization of Funds for - Seasonal Loans             165           186          190         234          304          366
Medium Term Loans                                     108             94         113         133          162           189
Contingencies
Physical 5%
Seasonal Loans
Medium Term Loans                                    8             9           10          12           15           18
5             5            6          7             8            9
Price
Seasonal Loans  3/                               -             16           32          61          1071         165
Medium Term Loans  4/                           --             10           25          45           72          107
Total Outflow                          286           320          376         492          668          854
Total Balance                        1 631         1.177        16202       1,063          845          601
1/ Reallocation of Funds for: (a) aerial survey and improvement of Mvanpanzi bridge on the East Bank   MK 208,000
(b) rehabilitation of irrigation system of Kasinthula Research Station   MK 250,000
MK 458,000
2/ 1975/76 Debtors' Seasonal Loans (MK 254,000) less provision for doubtful debts  (MK 40,000) are assumed
to be recovered at 807 within the following 3 years.                                                                      (
3/ Since seasonal loans are mostly for imported items, IBPD Guildelines on Expected Price Increase of Foreign Costs (January 1977) has been
used; Price Contingency against base year (1976/77): 1977/78 8%; 1978/79: 16.1%; 1979/80: 24.87.; 1980/81: 33.5%; 1981/82: 42.9%.
4/ Since the medium term loans are mostly for locally produced items, IBRD Forecasts for Price Escalation  of local costs in Malawi have been
used for projection:  Price Contingency against base year (1976/77)1 1977/78: 10%; 1978/79: 21%; 1979/80: 31.9%; 1980/81: 42.4%;
1981/82: 53.8%.
March   16, 1978



MALAWI
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICUITURAL CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Suuseary of Project Cost
(MK)
Year I     Year 2     Year 3      Year 4      Total      Foreign    Exchange
(1978/79)  (1979/80)  (1980/81)  (1981/82)                  7        Total
Component
Agricultural Service,
Extension                             294,910    269,210    230,440    198,440    993,000         36          362,263
Training                              105,740    116,690      76,090     75,190    373,710        34          126,686
Research                              306,500    139,940    140.520    127,420    714,380         27          192,128
Seed Multiplication                   756,595     66,325    (24,350)   (24,940)   773,630         81          625.454
Credit                                126,060     68,310      68,310     68,310    330,990        28           93,150
Animal Husbandry                      328,360    148,320      93,240     80.900    650,820        64          414,010
Sub-Total                        1,918,165    806,795    584,250    525,320  3,836,530         47        1,813.691
Natural Resources
Land Husbandry                        103,840     42,920      43,420     42,100    232,280        44          103,120
Fisheries                              71,040     47,050      44,930     44,710    207,730        36           75,035
Forestry                              106,130     69,860    103,320      53,010    332,320        31          103,460
Wildlife                               54 490     46.590      11 990      9990    123Q6           Al          ..51s,A8
Sub-Total                          335,500    206,420    203,660    149,810    895,390         37          333,295
Hydrology/Water Supply                   287,550    237,010    286,110      86,110    896,780        57          509,978
Health                                   123,185    166,770      36,670     35,870    362,495        40          145,549
Technical Services
Roads                                 398,060    296,460    215,210    115,760  1,025,490         65          668,791
Buildings                             233,210    127,810    118,810    118,810    598,640         35          210,500
Mechanical Maintenance                 54. 670     25,1290  7.,.20       7 ..2.3  1.  7 A82f  ....43Af          5
Sub-Total                          685,940    449,390    357,840    258,390  1,751,560         53          924,906
Administration
Management                            282,860    250,060    219,560    188,060    940,540         47          447,410
Evaluation                             88,020     68,460      62,200     55,560    274,240        29           80,310
Finance                                96 350     66 550      70 840     70 230    3Q3 970       _27           83 110
Sub-Total                          467,230    385,070    352,600    313.850  1,518,750         40          610,830
Totsl Base Cost                        3J817.570  2,253 455          30  1.369350  9.261a505         47        4329
(MH 000)
Year 1(1978/P9)_         Year 2 (1979/80)                 Year 3(1980/81)               Year 4(1981/82)               Total
Loc.l    Foreign   TOLal    Local    Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign  Total          Local    Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total
ase Cost                              2,024    1,794      3,818    1,195     1,059      2.254      965    856     1,821       726       643      1,369     4,910  4,352   9,262
Ihysical Ctingency                      101       90        191       60        53        113      48   - 43         91       lI         19         CR       945    718      463
Sub-Total                             2,125    1,884     4,009    1,255      1,112      2,367   1,013    899      1,912       726       675      1,437     5,155  4,570   9,725
Price Increase                          213      132       345       238       156        394     299    187        486       304       189        493     1,054    664   1,718
Total Pwejagt Cost                    2,338    2,016     4,354    1,493       1.268     2,761   1,312  1,086      2.398    1.066        864      1,930     6,209  5,234  11,443
Assumptions:  1.  Physical contingency: 5% of all Project Components.
2.  Price increase of local costs; Year 1: 10%; Year 2: 9%; Year 3: 8%; Year 4: 87,  (Compounded: 10 .0; 19.97; 29.5%; 39.97.),
3.  Price increase of foreign costs: Year 1:7.0%; Year 2; 6.57; Year 3: 6.0%; Year 4: 6% (Compounded: 7.07; 14.07.; 20.87.; 28%)
May 10, 1978



-46-                                             TABLE T-3
MAIAWI
Shire Valley Aaricultural Consolidation Prolect
Withdrawal of Proceeds of the Credit
(USs)
(1)         t2)          (3)               (4)                  t5)         (6)
Vehicles
Vehicles                             Salaries   Machinery
Machinery    Civil         ADS         and       Operation   Consultants
Catetor,              Equipment    Works       Personnel Allowances    Costs         Services    Unallocated        Total
Total Project Costs       1,948,281  1,657,953      330,000   3,146,209   2,630,375       475,200      2,399,100      12,587,118
IDA Share of Costs        1,660,000  1,410,000      280,000          4,910,000            400,000     2,040,000      10,700,000
(rounded)



-47-
TABLE T-4
MALAWI
Shire Valley Agricultural Consolidation Prolect
Breakdown of Prolect Costs into Categories
(MR)
Category      (1)            (2)            (3)                (4)                    (5)            (6)
Operating Costs
Vehicles                                    Salaries   Machinery
Machinery       Civil           ADS           and       Equipment    Consultants
Project Component                      Equipment       Works        Personnel    Allowance   Vehicles         Services      Unallocated         Total
Extension                                155,300       325,000                      802,840      252,420                        ---        1,535,560
Training                                  35,800        43,550          ---         166,760      127,600          ---           ---          373,710
Research                                  64,580       173,000          ---         352,220      124,580          ---           ---           714,380
Seed Multiplication 1/                   396,150       340,750          ---           36,730         -            ---           ---           773,630
Credit Administration                     30,250        27,500          ---          186,520      86,720          ---                         330,990
Animal Husbandry                          79,550        88,500          ---          173,400     309,400          ---                         650,850
Land Husbandry                             36,900        32,500         ---           93,040       69,840         ---           ---           232,280
Fisheries                                 34,950        63,000          ---           79,430      49,750          ---           ---           227,130
Forestry                                  46,000       131,750          ---           84,790       69,780         ---           ---           332,320
Wildlife                                   20,100        71,000         ---            ---         31,960         ---           ---           123,060
Hydrology/Water Supply                   189,400       104,000          ---           43,020      128,360      432,000          ---           896,780
Health                                    41,400        192,115         ---           18,000      110,980         ---           ---           362,495
Road Construction & Maintenance          175,600        89,000          ---          232,200     626,690          ---           ---         1,123,490
Building Maintenance                       98,400        35,000         ---          243,080      284,160    .   ---                          660,640
Mechanical Maintenance                     27,150        17,000         ---          136,760       70,560         ---           ---           251,470
Management                                 31,300         ---        300,000         462,080      333,600         ---           ---         1,126,980
Evaluation                                20,400        37,500          ---          144,100       72,240                       ---           274,240
Finance                                   24,000          ---           ---          302;040       98,970         ---           ---           425,010
Contingencies                               ---           ---           ---            ---          ---            _       2.181.000       2.181,000
Sub-total              1,507,230    1,771,165        300,000      3,557,010   2,847,610        432,000    2,181,000       12,596,015
Less Recurrent Costs
Extension                                ___                                      390,260      152,000         ---                         542,260
Fisheries                                ---           ---            ---           9,000       10,400                        ---            19,400
Road Maintenance                         ---                         ---           28,000       70,000                        ---            98,000
Building Maintenance                     ---                          ---          25,000       37,000          ---           ---            62,000
Mechanical Maintenance                    ---           ---           ---           79,240      44,800          ---           ---           124,040
Management                                ---           ---           ---           75,600     110,840          ---           ---           186,440
Finance                                  ---            ---           ---           89,720      31,320          ---                         121,040
Sub-total                  ---           ---            ---         696,820      456,360          ---           ---        1,153,180
Total Project Costs                    L.502                          m m         2.860.190   L= =             ULM           L     .=    U.iVLA=
1/  Operating costs of seed farm has been reduced by revenues from seed sales. Operation is self-sustaining from year three.
May 10, 1978



MALAWI
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Incremental ProJect Production
Total Production With Proiect                                      Incremental Production
Percent
Increase
PROJECT YEAR                               77/78      78/79      79/80      80/81      81/82     82/83          78/79     79/80      80/81      81/82      82/83            With Project
Cotton  (m Tons)                          11,175    11,395    11,975    12,640    12,865    13,090                 80        520     1,080      1,200      1,320                11%
Cotton Net Return (MK 000)                17,480      1,782      1,873      1,977      2,012      2,047            13         81        169        188       207
Incremental Labor (Handays 000)                                                                                    17        115        238       260        291
Maize  (m Tons)                           25,800    26,166    27,290    29,105    31,960    35,105                216      1,100      2,675     5,310      8,255                31%
Maize Net Return (MK 000).                  2,013     2,037      2,107      2,223      2,401      2,591            16         81        197        392       610
Incremental Labor (Mandays 000)                                                                                    20        104       250        495        772
Dimba Rice (m Tons)                          800      1,230      1,750      2,600      3,600     4,900            270        575     1,210      1,860      2,800               133%
Dimba Rice Net Return (MK 000)                67        103        147        218        302        412            23         48        102        156       235
Incremental Labor (Mandays 000)                                                                                    42         89        185       284        431
White Sorghum  (m Tons)                     6,380     6,638      6,939      7,628      8,316      8,955            38        140        628     1,116      1,555                21%
Uhite Sorghum Net Return (MK 000)              460       478        500        549        599        645             3         20         45         80        112
Incremental Labor (Mandays 000)                                                                                     5         17         80       140        198
Millet (m Tons)                             6,120     6,300      6,355      6,548      6,885      7,200           -           55        250        585        900               14%
Millet Net Return (MK 000)                    386       397        400        416        434        454           -            3         16         37         57
Incremental Labor (Mandays 000)                                                                                   -            5         25         55        91
Groundnuts (Unshelled)  (m Tons)              860       830        854        881        917        953           -           54         81        117        153               18%
Groundnuts Net Return (MK 000)                 32        68         67         68         68         67           -            4.3        6.3        9         11
Incremental Labor (Mandays 000)                                                                                   -           15         23         30        42
Brewing Sorghum  (m Tons)                     350     1,575      1,575      1,575      1,575      1,575           825        525        175         -          -                 _
Brewing Sorghum Net Return (MK 000)            28       137        122        121        119        118            65         41         13.5       -          _
Incremental Labor (Mandays 000)                                                                                    46         30         10         -          -
Guar Beans  (m Tons)                          485       485        485      1,620      1,620      1,620           485        485      1,620      1,620      1,620                -
Guar Beans-Net Return (MK 000)                 79         79        79        264        263        263            79         79        264        263        263
Incremental Labor (Mandays 000)                                                                                    30         30         97         97         97
Leucaena   (m Tons)                           600       810      1,080      1,620      2,160      2,700           810      1,080     1,620      2,160      2,700                 _
Leucsena Net Return (MK 000)                   15        20         27         41         54         67            20         27         41         54         67
Incremental Labor (Mandays 000)                                                                                    23         31         46         60         76
Net Value (MK 000)        219       374        854      1,179      1,562
Incremental Labor (Mandays 000)         183       436         954     1,421      1,998
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



MALAWI
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Farm Budget6s a t Pull D.vopment of Project
(Consan  1976/77 MKt at 1482/83 Relative Price Level)
Mwna&Nianje Hills                    Mvanza Valley         Tomali & Makande Plains             East Bank         2   Tenganif& Nsanje Plains
CROP AREA:                                          Unmroved  1/  improved  2    Unimproved I/ improved 2/  Unimproved I/ improved 2/ Unimproved I/ Improved  Unimproved  1/ Imeroved  2/
Cotton                      ha                       0.10             0.10              0.56           0.56           0.84          0.84           0.30         0.30           - 
Rainfed Maize               ha                       0.90             0.90              0.56           0.56           0.43          043            0.45         0.45           0.40            0.40
DimbasMaize                 ha                       -                -                 0.10           0.1.0          0.08          0.-08          0.05         0.05           0.07            0.07
Dimba Rice                  ha                        -               -                 0.10           0.10           0.08          0.08           0.05         0.05           0.07            0.07
W~hite Sorghum              ha                       0.10             0.10              0.10           0.10           0.30          0.30           -             -             0.30            0.30
Bulrush Millet              ha                       0.04             0.04              0.16           0.16          0.20           0.20           0.10         0.10           0.40            0.40
Other Crops                 ha                        0.05            0.05              -               -             0.01          0.01           0.01         0.01           0.08            0.08
Total ha                                1.25             1.25              1.60           1.60           1.94          1.94           0.96         0.96           1.32            1.32
FARM PRODUCTS ANDI INPUTS:
Production:
Seed Cotton                 m ton                    0.04             0.08              0.20           0.42           0.29          0.63           0.11          0.23          -               -
Rainfed Maize               m ton                    0.54             0.77              0.34           0.48           0.26          0.37           0.27          0.38          0.24            0.34
Dimba Maize                 m ton                     -               -                 0.10            0.18          0.68          0.14           0.05          0.09          0 07            0.13
Dimba Rice                  m ton                     -               -                 0.08           0.11    .      0 06          0.09           0.04          0.06          0.06            0 08
W4hite Sorghums             m ton                    0.05             0.07              0.05           O. 7            .14          0.20                         - .0.14                       0.20
Bulrush Millet              m ton                     0.02            0.03              0.07            0.10          0.09           0 12          0.05          0.06          0.18            0.24
Groundnuts                  51 ton                    0.02            0.03              0.01            0.02          -             0.01           -             0 01          0.03            0 04
Main Material Inputs: i/
Insecticides No. of sprays
x ha                     -                0.46              -              2.36          -3.45                         -1.26                       -              0.15
Fertilizer                 m tonl                   -                -                 -              0.01           -             0 01           -             0.01          -               0.01
Labor: Unskilled mandays 4I                             92             105               151             181           190           230             89           108            96              110
Financial Farm Budget
Cross Value                M                        61.06           92.74            101.47          179.75        114.30        217.77          55.77        104.60         57.03           81.71
Direct Production Cost   li                          3.25            8.05              4.57          26.60           5.60         36 40           2.73         14.55           2.91           6.66
Net Farm Benefit           li                       57.81           84.69             76.90          163.15        108.70        181.37          53.04         90.05          54.12          75 05
li Return for manday                                 0.53            0.66              0.56            0.72          3.49           0.68          8.52          0.73           0.48           0.58
increment with Project   liK                                27                                56.25                         72.67                        37.00                        20.93
1/ Unimproved- traditional farms using for all crops unimproved production techniques.
2/ Improved 1 - adopting farms using for all improved production techniques of stage 1.
3/ In addition to seed of the different crops (traditional varieties for unimproved farms and improved seed for 'improved farms), amortization of sprayer. tools.
baskets,transport etc.
4/  Labor is coated at 0. since on the aversge farm only unskilled lahor is used.                                                                                                                                   0
February 14, 1978



MALAWI
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cotamodity Dudgets Per Ha at full Development of Prolect
(Constant 19767t7 7MK at 1982/H3 Relative Price Level)
------------COTTON------------    ---------RAINFED MAIZE--------    ----------DIMBA MAIZE---------    ----------DIMBA RICE----------
Unimproved  Improved  Improved    Unimproved  Improved  Improved    Unimproved  Improved  Improved    Unimproved  Improved  Improved
1         2                        1          2                        1          2                         1         2
Produ.}tion                       M Ton              0.35        0.75      1.00          o.60       0.85       1.50          1.00       1.80       2.50          0.80        1.10      1.60
Price                             MK/ M Ton        240.00     240.00    240.00          82.00      82.00      82.00         82.00      82.00      82.00         98.77       98.77     98.77
Gros.s Value                      MK                84.00-   180.00    240.00           49.20       69.70    123.00         82.00     147.60    205.00          79.00      108.65    158.00
Seed                         MK                 1.30        1.30      1.30          2.07       2.76       2.76         2.07        2.76       2.76          2.50       2.50       3.33
Insecticides 1/              MK                 --        27.68      48.44          --                    6.92                     6.92       6.92          --         --         6.92
Fertilizer 1i                14K                __         __        21.66                               21.66                    21.66      33.48           _                   21.66
Other Material Inputs 2/    MK                  2.44       7.31      12.11          3.44       0.74       1.91          o.63       1.78       2.32          0.58        0.79      1.91
Direct Production Coat            MK                 3.74       35.99     81.51          2.51        3.50     33.26          2.70       33.12     45.48          3.o8        3.29     33.50
Gross Margin                      MK                80.26      144.00    158.49         46.69       66.23     89.74         79.33      113.48    159.52         75.92      105.35    124.50
Unskilled Labor                   Man-days         130         165       175            70          80        96            77         96        110           160         170       183
Returns Per Man-day                K                   .62        .87        .90          .67         .83       .93          1.03        1.18      1.44           .48         .62        .68
---------WHITE SORGHUM--------    -----BULRUSH MILLET--------    -----qROUNDNUTS(Unshelled)----
llnimproved  Improved  Improved    Unimproved  Improved  Improved    t'nimproved  Improved  Improved         Breving      Guar
1          2                       1           2                       1           2         Sorghum       Beans   Leucaena
Production                        M Ton              0.45        o.65      1.20          0.45        o.60      0.70          o.40        0.55      0.73          1.75        1.93      6.oo
Price                             MK/M Ton          77.80       77.80     77.83         65.60       65.63     65.60         99.21      99.21      99.21         99.21      176.37     37.50
Gross Value                       MK                35.01       50.57     93.36         29.52       39.36     45.92         39.68       54.57     69.45        173.62      158.73    225.00
Seed                         MK                 O.88        1.32      1.32          0.77        1.32      1.32          6.oo       8.oo      25.00          1.32        2.75      2.00
Insecticides 1/              MK                                       6.92          --                                             6.92      13.84         13.84        6.92     13.28
Fertilizer  /                MK                                      21.66          --         --         --            --         --         --           21.66        --        --
Other Material Inputs 2/    wK                  o.63       o.63       1.65          o.44       0.58       0.74          0.97       2.20       4.45          5.64        3.34     60.66
Direct Production Cost            MK                 1.51        1.95     31.55          1.21        1.90      2.06          6.97       17.12     43.29         42.47       12.71     75.94
Gross Margin                      MK                33.50       48.62     66.83         28.31       37.46     43.86         32.71       37.45     26.45        131.15      146.32    149.06
Unskilled Labor                   Man-days          70          80        90            50          60        65           140        152 -      155           100         120       175
Returns Per Man-day               MK                  .48         .60        .75          .56         .62       .67           .23         .25       .17          1.31        1.20        .85
/ Including Credit Charge of 15'.
2/ Such as tools, baskets, transportation, sprayer amortization, fence cost (Leucaena).
February 15, 1978



TABLE T-8
-51-
MAIAWI
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL CONSOLIDATICO  PROJECT
Fisherman's Budget One Year's Catch
Unimproved                    Improved
SALE OF CATCH
Plank Canoe,
Gear Used                             Traditional             Gill Net and Longline
Total Catch - (M Tons)                     2.7                         5.4
Wet Price - IMK/M Ton                         66.0                        66.0
Sold as wet (M Tons) 1/                    1.3                        1.1
Gross Return (MK)                                 86.00                         73.00
Smoked Price - MK (M Ton)                    210.00                      242.00
Sold as Smoked (M Ton) 2/                  0.5                        1.5
Gross Return (MK)                                105.00                        363.00
Total Gross                                      191.00                        436.00
Production Costs
Canoe Replacement                          4.0                       11.0
Gear Maintenance                          50.0                       80.0
Interest                                   -                         15.0
Kiln Maintenance                               -                           1.0
Fuel Wood 3/                              24.0                       30.0
Total Costs                                       78.00                        137.00
NET RETURN                                       113.00                        299.00
Incremental  return improved over unimproved -                                 186.00
1/ Wet sales  by traditional fishermen  507O of catch because primitive smoking pits
limit amount smoked.
Wet sales of improved fishermen 20 % - which represents family consumed and immediate
sales. Availability of modern kilns makes it possible for fishermen to smoke 807. of
catch to take advantage of higher prices for better quality products.
2/ Smoked fish reduces to 35% of wet catch by weight.
3/ Firewood consumption by old style smoking pit is about 3/4 of M3 ton fish while
modern kilns consume only 1/3 M3 per ton fish.



NALAWI
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Government Cash Flow
(MC'OOO)
Year 1        Year 2         Year 3        Year 4       Year 5          Year 6-10      Year 11     year 12-20       Year 21          year 22-25
1978/79      1979/80         1980/81       1981/82      1982/83          1983/84       1988/89      1989/90                          2003/04
_1998/99         199912000      -2203/04
CASH INFLOW
A.   IDA Credit Disbursement                2,727         3,090          2,000          1,910           -               -            -              -
B.   ADMARC Profit on Cotton Trading 1/        11            85            192             229          181             905          181         1.629             181              724
C.              Total Cash Inflow          2,738          3,175          2,192          2,139           181             905          181         1,629             181              724
CASH OUTFLOW/IDA CREDIT SERVICE
D.   Capital Repayment                                                       2/                                                       97           833             264            1,210
E.   Service Charge 3/                        20             44             59              73           73             365           72           624              64              239
F.   Project Cost 4/                       4,354          2.761          2,398          1.930           527           2.635          527         4,743             527            2,108
G.              Total Cash Outflow         4,374          2,805          2,457          2,003           600           3,000          696         6,200             855            3,557
H.  Net Cash Inflow (Outflow)              (1,636)          370           (265)           136          (419)         (2,095)        (515)       (4,571)            (674)         (2,833)
I.   Cumulative Cash Inflow (Outflow)    (1,636)         (1,266)        (1,531)        (1,395)       (1,814)         (3,909)      (4,424)       (8,995)         (9,669)         (12,502)
1/  ADMARC's Profits are assumed to be benefits to the government for this purpose and have been calculated on the basis of actual average profit on cotton
purchase of the last five years, i.e., 57% of purchase price; they relate to the incremental cotton production of the Consolidation Project
only and include the price contingency for local costs for year I to 4.
3/   Based on IDA terms of 10 years of grace, 1 percent p.a. repayment of principle for years 11 to 20, and 3 percent p.a. for years 21 to 50.
3/   Based on IDA terms of 3/4 of a percent service charge on the amount of credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
4/   Excluding price contingency from 1982/83 onwards.
Hay 11, 1978



FU3zUWI
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Economic Cost and benefit Streams
1976/77 Constant %K'OOO
COSTS                                                                                     RRNEFITS
C2             C3              C4                 C5                             B2                B3                 34                     B5
Phase II      Phase III        Includes                                         Phase II        Phase III           Includes
Costs       Total Costs      Livestock III  and Fisheries III                 Benefits        Total Benefits      Livestock III and        Fisheries III
1968/69                     _                _                  _
1969/70                     -                - 
1070/71                     -                -                  -
1971/72
1972/73                     -                -                  -               -                           -                   -                    -
1973/74                   1,550              -                  -               -                            73                 -                    -                        -
1974/75                  2,103               -                  -               -                            79                 -                    -                        -
1975/76                   1,649              -                  -               -                           374                 -                    -                        -
1076/77                   1,724              -                  -                                           418                 -                    -                        -
1977/78                  1,452               -                  -               -                           645                 -                    -                       -
1978/79                     281            3,019                332             125                         581                 250                  -                        -
1979/80                     281            1,720                190              82                         579                 466                   29                      47
1980/81                     281            1,355                138              82                         581               1,030                   87                       93
1981/82                     281            1,246                126              78                         579               1,394                  154                     140
1982/83                     281              454                 74              19                         581               1,777                  231                      186
1983/84                     281              454                 74              19                         577               1,806                  260                     186
1984/85                     281              454                 74              19                         577               1,836                  290                      186
1985/86                     281              454                 74              19                         577               1,836                  290                     186
1986/87                     281              454                 74              19                         577               1,836                  290                      186
1987/88                     281              454                 74              19                         577               1,836                  290                      186
1988/89                     281              454                 74              19                         577               1,836                  290                      186
1989/90                     281              454                 74              19                         577               1,836                  290                      186
1990/91                     281              454                 74              19                         577               1,836                  290                      186
1991/92                     281              454                 74              19                         577               1,836                  290                      186
1992/93                     281              454                 74              19                         577               1,836                  290                      186
1993/94                     281              454                 74               19                        577               1,836                  290                      186
1994/95                     281              454                 74              19                         577               1,836                  290                      186
1995/96                     281              454                 74              19                         577               1,836                  290                      186
1996/97                     281              454                 74              19                         577               1,836                  290                      186
1997/98                     281              454                 74               19                        577               1,836                  290                      186
1998/99                     281              454                 74              19                         577               1,836                  290                      186
186
Project ERRS
1.   Costs and benefits of the Consolidation (Phase III) alone results in an ERR of 20.0%.
2.   Combining costs and benefits of Phases II and III results in an ERR of 8%.
3.   Reducing Phase III benefits by 25X and maintaining fhase III costs as above lower the ERR to 12%.
4.   Reducing Phase III crop yield   increases from the projected 40% to a 20% increase results in an ERR of 17%.
5.   Increasing the rate farmers, adopt new practices by 10% results in a 25%



MALAWI
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Proiect SEuipment.Machinervy Housing and Civil Works
(MK)
Year 1            Year 2             Year 3              Year 4             Total
Vehicles ond Equipment                  Unit Cost         (1978179          (1979/80           (1980/81            (1981/82
Pick-up                              6,000            (4) 24.000         (4) 24,000             6,000                              36,000
Pour wheel drive                     8,000           (17)136.000         (8) 64.000         (2)16,000                             216,000
Other Vehicles (vane etc.)           various          (2) 21,400         (2) 26.000         (1,12,000                              59,400
Motor cycles                           800           (60) 48,000        (13) 10,400         (3) 2,400           (17) 13,600         74,400
General Equipment                        various              33,000              21,200                                  1,000         54,200
Farm Tractors and Equipment              various          (6) 70,600          (2) 29,300        (2)26,800                              127,700
Trucks                               various          (5) 79,500         (2) 24,000                                                103,500
Seed Farm irrigation system                             540,000                                                                   540,000
Well Driller                                                                157,000                                                157,000
Road Eauinmt
Grader                                                        65,000                                                                    65,000
Compressor                                                    11,000                                                                    11, 000
Other Misc.                                                   18,500               6,000            6,000                               30,500
Sub Totals-Vehicles & Equip.                    1,047,000             343,900            69,200                14,600     1,474,700
Boreholes                              1,700                                  (10)17,000       (15)25,500            (15)25,500         68,000
Shallow Wells                            750            (10)   7,500          (10) 7,500       (10) 7,500            (10) 7,500         30 000
7,500             24,500            33,000                33,000         98,000
Housing & Civil Works
DL-3 Houses                      15,000             (7) 105,000          (2)30,000            15,000                              150,000
:1-2 "                            6,000             (9)  54,000          (3)18,000                                                 72,000
EL-2                              5,000            (44) 220,000         (11)55,000         (7)35,000             (5)25,000        335,000
Conversions of FL Houses          2,000            (20) 40,000           (15)30.000       (15)30,000            (15)30,000        130.000
Other (office Blocks)                                    20,000             20,000            10,000                               50,000
Training Centers                                          3,100              3,600             1,500                 1,600          9,800
Laboratories & Offices                                   33,000             82,000                                                115,000
Fish Landing sites                                            10,000              10.000            10,000                10,000        40,000
Forest stations                                          15.000             15,000            15,000                               45,000
Low Cost Housing                                              13,000              .4,000            5,000                  1,500        23,500
Health facilities & Chalets                                   39,700              20,000                                                59,700
Road Construction                                        24,500             30,500            24,500                 9,500         89,000
Dip Tanks-etc.                                           10,000              5,000                                                 15,000
Sub-Totals-(Housing & Civil Wks)                 587,300             323,100           146,000                77,600      1,134,000
Office Eauipvent
Calculators                        600             (3)   1,800                  600              600                               3,000
Photo Copier                     5,000                   5,000                                                                     5 000
Typewriters                        400             (3)   1,200                  400              400                               2,000
Other office Equipment         various                   1,000                                                                     2,000
Card Punchar                                             2,000                                                                     2,000
Sub Total                                          11,000               2,000             1,000                              14,000
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Costsdo not include contingencies
Msy 10, 1978



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
MALAWI
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
A.   Selected Reports on the Development Potential of the Lower Shire Valley
1.  Lockwood Report - 1968-70
2.   Halerow Report - 1974
3.   FAO Report on Livestock and Dairy Improvement - 1971
4.  Malawi Government Statement of Development Policies 1971-1980
5.   Bradford/Groundnuts Reconnaissance Study - 1973
B.   Selected Reports on Phases I and II of the Project
B.1 P.P.A.R. for Phase I
B.2 SVADP Phase II - Review of Agricultural Activities July 1974
3.3 Malawi Government Crop Marketing and Price Projections - 1977
B.4  Malawi Government Compendium of Agricultural Statistics - 1977
B.5 Agro. Economic Survey/Groundnut Growers of Nsanie
District ofSVADP - 1972
B.6 Malawi Government/Marketing of Smallholder Agricultural Produce.
C.   Selected WorkinR Papers
C.1 Project Component Cost Tables (18)
C.2 Project Component detailed descriptions of activities, Extension,
Training, Research, Seed Multiplication, Credit, Animal Husbandry,
Land Husbandry, Fisheries, Forestry; Wildlife, Hydrology and Water
Supply, Health, Road Construction, Management, Building and
Mechanical Maintenance and Evaluation.






I BRD 1334
345 30'~
MALAWI
SHIRE VALLEY                                           ' --. :   i'
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COMMUNICATIONS
-S IA
mTh  -sP ite  beet prapaca  by the
3 S;  ,,\  u l              World -ank's sff scch,t,fcedyfor
, S ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t :/<he cs,.e,irence ofthe rtYeaseO a
6'<                             <         n         > ,    .         |                       do the repast to wctthre prh   ttachsd
bI.,se show, O1 h.  hh, map
\chopoorgo r                                                                                            'to60
16'   ......... Project Boundary                                                                                  Lu ~ 4'  ,}o  16 30'-
Project Road (Class I)                                                            k-g.          2
-         Project Road (Class U)                ), *                                                      a
Project Road (Class M)
__4-   Maon Tarred Rood Constricted 1975 -76                         N'
Main Rood Improved (Previous Project)
Other Existing Main Rood                                  .<
Secondary Rood Improved (Previous Project)        '  
Other Secondary Road O
District Rood
District Rood to be Constructed
District Road Constructed (Previous Project)
'-    District Road Improved (Previous Project)
Railway and Station
C      River Landing (Project)
+      Airstrip (Project)                                                     iC,,dtdr
A      Telephone Exchange
-      Private Switchboard                                                                                1700'
O      Petrol
*      SVADP (Project)
Non -Customary Land                            N
- --~z    River
Marsh
-. -    Internotional Boundary
o       5      10      15     20      25
MILES
0   5   10  15  20  25  30  35  40
KILOMETERS
34 30'                                           35 OCC
MARCH 1978






IBRD 1334
340 30'
MAL AW I
SHIRE VALLEY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, ADMARC,
AND EXTENSION PLANNING AREAS                                                                              >
lOthO 5 1, h    b0- epepa    by rhe
0<\ 35  6,! World B-nk's staff e.-cl-Sroly for
,ho ___ _,etr  of the -ed-r  of
the repor so whh rrh e ltthed,r 
The dnr-, ... --d and th)
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vd 8-ksil    .~, f.h; hawr."Y 1   
hoodari th~ ohown onthi a
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d nor roly K anz the part of the
w ata~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~opon onroo        the |e-a otaton of 
o'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n taor or anynin  ered roenrent130
16000'       0rphh6                                                                                          16 00'-
Mil.~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
L I   NeExtension Planning AreaC0 Hedtr0 , < s                   r
*     DMaisona Heeadc uarterso     I/Cvr                        +rl>sl 
Ripero Obserotio  Ploankho)ebg hoer;
No -etcud Rstomar  LandySt|!                       Gtl                 Tegn
-       Intrmna  ytm   bevtiona Boudar                      0      5EEV   10ANVT  15    20      2
*~~~~~~~~~~~ 5e  10ke                                    156-7  20  25  30  3540
GO                             PARM                                                               1977
Exi Stin Exeno   xstiong                                          ndc/NC
Extenision Planninguoreateaqrs            Do            So       j         
-   Major Reserc  Stto                                        0t     -         
- Researc  Subtoto
-^     CtrnopWether OBservatory    Plo                                                IS:S20    2
0  Soil Productivity Research Plot ~~        ~          Ml LE
Shete Bel Tree OberQto
New Market 1973 -78 ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      MRCH19






IBRD  13347
34' 30' 
4 ,,,At.    4
MALAWI                                                             '               -.
SHIRE VALLEY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT    \ii:x                                                     
HEALTH FACILITIES                                                                           0
AND,BOREHOLES
35"00               ~~~~~~~~~ThIM reap  h-  e,,,pre-rd by the
id BoT k's statff e--c.ai/y for
,h. _-neen-  of the reder of
r   X  g -_3         t?                 ,             / 4                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~the rapted to which itiJ attaschedt.
The daceOeOe   sd ad the
ho-d.rea sh_w so(his -ep
do nateteply on the pars tf the
World  ank and it, ethhliata  ,eer
)cdgeerao  -o the Igdi State  e
soy enty eo eSdcr ao\
1 6 00                                               ndhopog;  t  .9$,!               1600
s  >    k        )kw,>(Mpoko~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>o~la        a     
'a       khum an
Mphe  N ~  ~     ~    ~
et . -  ;    ,f ,.ip                                                               ...c
16'i0~~~     ~      ~~~~~                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 16  Ap     30'
00m
Project Boundary                                            (        Pho6
A      Primary Health Center           &                  GA* 
A      Health Sub-center                  <ER                                                    ni
*     Health Post                                                         M ATA
O     Health Unit                                                          F  ST
*      To be Upgraded
o      Proposed New Buildings
*     Boreholes, Project
*     Boreholes, Non - Project                                                '
Main Road                                              |Ch did    N
Minor Road                                            |
17000 1C1OI  Railway                                                          I                         Mbesje          1700'
River                                                                            be niCrn    D
Marsh                                                               Makok     _      X 
Non - Customary Land                                          .       w        *     y
*-    International Boundary                                                          N
0               0      15      20      25
MILES
0   S   19  15  20  25  30  35  40
KILOMETrERS
34- 30                                             350 00
JANUARY 1978






34030                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 1334
MALAWI                                                                   AIJ4
SHIRE VALLEY 
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
METEOROLOGY                                                                     L
Ga                     I ((O         \                       .  0                        th-  twhch. ac-d. 
aa  o  >< \ (Kai %~~/ 
Th.s apses besh pipae by tfhed
-1l6ds shown on-this mai  p-
do r-o  inely, 001 the psrs Of "Ir
Wo,l, Berk 1td it,  ff/hete., arty
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o;tet soae             tha hgark sttb ot  akhln
16~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g                                          t30 -   \. I6Q30 't.-
51~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n tertr \ssrs,tyendorsemaot 
nroe ftrs     .tish b-Osd8dO.
60 00                                                                                                      t
- 6- -OL  Project Nlkd, y ,N                       ).      G1 60 00
*     Roinguage - Agriculture                                                    \ )\)
o     Roinguage - Other                                                }>sr\\S                  C
1000 -     isohyet  ( in mis )
760---  Con1ectural Isohyet (in mnm)                                     10t0)\\ t / 
Moin Road                       T-7i
Minor Rood                                           I{                      -ll
-t-r---   RaiPolway                                          jCid;Q\Naj
Rider                                     |lii,L. /   -2   Noeje97
_ 70 00         , -;_ i ~  Marsh                                           I 1140--~'-  ///ChoAR              100       -
Non -Customary Land                                9)105             /|- 3-1  ' itta170
-.  -    Irternational Boundary                                   t Atufani; o/        _ 
* es Boedeo 760
0 5 10 15 20 2
Ms             MILES
0   S   10  15  20  25  30  35  40
-Ki<LOMETER5
34 30                                           350 Oo
JANUARY 1978



