Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
Rqet No. P-2302-MAI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
May 24, 1978
Thi doment km   tred dbailom sd may be ame by recipient ony In the perfonuc of
Iheir offiil dutis. Bs etenb tmy not  herwis be dsed witou Wol BDk astorbatlo.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           -   Malawi Kwacha (MK) - 100 tambala (t)
US$1.00                 -   MK 0.91
MK 1.00                 -   US$1.10
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I kg                   -   2.2 lb.
1 m ton                -   1.1 short tons (2,000 lb)
1 ha2                       2.47 acre!
1 km                   -   0.3861 mi
1 km                   -   0.6 mile
I bag maize,      .         90 kg (200 lb.)
1 bag fertilizer       -   50 kg. (110 lb.)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADMARC   -   Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
CSC      -   Cold Storage Company
EPA      -   Extension Planning Area
FMD      -   Foot and Mouth Disease
KRDP     -   Karonga Rural Development Project
LLDP     -   Lilongwe Land Development Program
MANR     -   Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MOE      -   Ministry of Education
MOH      -  Ministry of Health
MOWS     -  Ministry of Works and Supplies
MYP      -  Malawi Young Pioneers
NRDP     -   National Rural Development Program
SVADP    -   Shire Valley Agricultural Development Program
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI: SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Malawi
Beneficiary:       Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
Amount:            US$10.7 million equivalent
Terms:             Standard
ProJect            The project would assist the further development of
Description:      Malawi's Shire Valley region and would consolidate the
agricultural and infrastructural development investments
made in the region since 1968. It would intensify the
provision of agricultural extension services; establish
an irrigated seed multiplication farm and an afforesta-
tion program; provide production credit; improve livestock
extension services; expand the fisheries development
program; improve village health facilities and potable
water supply; and extend farm to market road networks. It
would provide social and infrastructural services to about
70,000 families and introduce improved farming practices,
which would enable about 40,000 smallholder families in
the Shire Valley to increase their annual farm income from
about US$75 to US$120. The major risks facing the project
are a recurrence of extreme drought conditions experienced
during the implementation of the second phase, the per-
formance of some recently developed project cropping
packages under prevailing farming conditions, the avail-
ability of an adequate number of qualified agricultural
extension staff and their ability to effectively implement
the "training and visit system", and the danger of new
outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease.
Estimated Cost:
(net of taxes)                      -------US$ million ------   Foreign Exchange
Local    Foreign    Total         Percent
Agricultural Services             2.2         2.0       4.2            47.0
Natural Resources                 0.6         0.4       1.0            37.0
Hydrology and Water Supply        0.4         0.5       0.9            57.0
Health Services                   0.3         0.2       0.5            40.0
Technical Services                0.9         1.0       1.9            53.0
Administration                    1.0         0.7       1.7            40.0
Contingencies                     1.4         1.0       2.4            39.0
Total                             6.8         5.8      12.6            46.0
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Financing Plan:
-------US$ million-
Local    Foreign    Total   Percent
IDA                   4.9         5.8       10.7        85
Government            1.9          -         1.9        15
Total                 6.8         5.8       12.6       100
Estimated
Disbursements:
-------US$ million----------
Bank FY               1979    1980       1981    1982
Annual                4.5      2.5       2.1       1.6
Cumulative            4.5      7.0       9.1      10.7
Rate of Return:      20 percent
Appraisal Report:   No. 1945a-MAI
May   , 1978



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI FOR A
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Malawi for the equivalent of US$10.7 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance a Shire Valley Agricultural Consolidation
Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum on the Economy of Malawi" (Report No.
1677a-MAI) dated September 30, 1977 was circulated to the Executive Directors
on October 10, 1977. Country data sheets are provided in Annex I.
3.        At independence in 1964, Malawi was the poorest of the three terri-
tories of the former Central African Federation. With a population of 5.2
million and a land area of about 118,500 square kilometers, Malawi is also
densely populated. Its main assets are moderately fertile soils, good
water resources and a climate favorable to crop production. Unlike its
neighbors, Malawi has no substantial mineral resources. Forests constitute
the main essentially untapped resource which could be exploited on a signi-
ficant scale in the future. At independence, the tax base was very narrow,
government revenues had to be supplemented with British budgetary aid to
support the administration, and prospects for economic development were
generally regarded as bleak.
4.        Malawi has a GNP per capita of only US$140 and is listed by the
United Nations among the world's poorest countries. Measured against the
country's natural endowments, however, progress since 1964 has been remark-
able. Between 1964 and 1976, GDP at constant prices grew at an average annual
rate of 6.5 percent, domestic investment and savings increased rapidly, and
government finances had improved sufficiently to eliminate the need for
budgetary aid. Agriculture, which dominates the economy (46 percent of GDP
and 40 percent of paid employment in 1976), has been directed towards export
markets by encouraging cash crop estates production and integrated rural
development schemes. In addition, rapid industrial development (the share
of industry rose from 9 percent of GDP in 1964 to 18 percent in 1976) has
significantly broadened the economic base.
5.        The continuing success of Malawi's development efforts has been
the result of realistic and purposeful planning by the Government. A State-
ment of Development Policies (DEVPOL), which provides a general framework for
three-year rolling plans, was published in 1971. DEVPOL contains guidelines



-2-
for-major economic targets up to 1980 and states as main socioeconomic objec-
tives: (a) raising living standards and productivity in rural areas; (b)
achieving an average annual growth of GDP of 8 percent through the parallel
development of smallholder output, estate agriculture and industry; (c)
promoting a more balanced regional development; and (d) developing local
initiatives by gradually increasing local participation in the economy.
6.        Within the public sector, agriculture will receive 19 percent,
public utilities 11 percent, and social services 15 percent of total in-
vestment during 1971-80. The transportation sector will receive about 29
percent, although between now and 1980 the proportion is expected to be tem-
porarily higher (46 percent) because of the concentration of several large
investments in those years. Malawi has an effective administration which has
been quite successful in preparing and implementing development projects.
7.        DEVPOL recognizes the important role of private investment in devel-
opment which, it is anticipated, will account for about one-half of total fixed
capital formation over the 1971-80 period. The Government also recognizes the
role of a healthy private sector in generating foreign exchange and savings
needed to sustain other elements of the development strategy, and has adopted
policies which are intended to attract foreign investors and to ensure a con-
tinued high growth of the private sector. Trade and payments policies are
liberal, profits moderately taxed and wages are held down to favor labor-
intensive estates and industries. The modern private sector has been the
leader in economic growth. The output of estate agriculture increased by 10
percent a year in real terms over the past decade, and industrial production
rose by 13 percent annually.
8.         In 1969 (the last year for which reliable income data are avail-
able), the poorest 40 percent of Malawi's households received 15 percent of
the total; the highest 20 percent received 53 percent and the top 5 percent
received 30 percent. These figures compared well with those of other develop-
ing countries. Since then, the rapid development of the modern private sector
has probably led to a less equitable situation.
9.        To offset the adverse distributional effect of the growth of the
modern private sector, the Government has directed some of its agricultural
investment program toward the smallholders. However, for some years, the
Government kept producer prices well below international prices until they
started acting as disincentives to producers. The Government has recently
recognized the importance of sufficiently remunerative commodity producer
prices and has authorized substantial increases. Indirectly, wage and price
policies have reduced the gap between wage earners and subsistence farmers.
Over the past seven years, real wages have fallen somewhat, while the real
earnings of smallholders have risen. Nevertheless wage employment has in-
creased by 8 percent a year on the average since 1968.



10.       Malawi's population is unevenly distributed, and the population
pressure in some areas is heavy in relation to arable land. While recognizing
the existence of this problem, the Government has been reluctant to introduce
population control policies and intends to rely instead on balanced regional
development policies that would encourage the movement of population to the
less densely populated areas. Only about 6 percent of the total population
live in urban areas. However, because of the diversification of the economy,
urban population is increasing by more than 10 percent per annum, in line with
the expansion of wage employment opportunities in the non-agricultural sectors.
11.       As about 90 percent of the population live in rural areas, rural
development is a primary social and economic objective. At present, the
majority of farmers are smallholders on the fringe of the market economy.
Their staple crop is almost exclusively maize, and their principal cash crops
are cotton, tobacco and groundnuts. Until now, the principal instrument for
increasing smallholder productivity has been relatively intensive, integrated
development projects in specific areas, which at the moment reach about 25
percent of the rural population.
12.       In spite of the Government's efforts, however, production from
traditional agriculture has lagged behind that of the estates. Although
firm figures are lacking, indications are that the production from the tradi-
tional sector has not increased by much more than 3 percent a year over the
past decade. The Government is concerned about this relatively slow growth
and is preparing a new country-wide approach to rural development. This would
be a departure from the previous approach in that it would primarily concen-
trate on providing farm inputs and extension services, with less emphasis on
infrastructure. The new approach - the National Rural Development Program -
is to become the Government's chief vehicle for smallholder development.
13.       The country's progress in generating and using domestic resources
on the whole has been impressive. Both domestic savings and fixed investment
have risen steadily since independence. Savings, virtually nil in 1964, were
11.5 percent of GDP in 1976, and fixed investment during the same period rose
from 8.5 to 22 percent of GDP. In general, the Government's fiscal management
has been skillful. By holding recurrent expenditures down and, at the same
time, expanding revenues, the Government has managed to achieve small budget
surpluses and to bring the domestic contribution to financing development ex-
penditures, which was negative in 1964, to 27 percent in 1976. Nevertheless,
the expanding level of development activities will place additional demands
on recurrent expenditures, possibly limiting future government contributions
to the capital budget. Consequently, there is need for stepping up domestic
resource mobilization, particularly through taxation. Since 1971, the in-
crease in recurrent revenue has lagged behind the increase in monetary GDP.
On the other hand, the increasing tempo of development is adding rapidly to
recurrent expenditure requirements. In response, the Government has increased
the company tax, personal income tax and import duties and excise taxes on
some commodities. Further increases, however, will be needed, both for re-
current expenditures as well as to help finance future development. The
Government is concerned about the problem and with Bank assistance, has
initiated a study of future recurrent budget requirements.



-4-
14.       After serious deterioration in 1975 and 1976, Malawi's balance of
payments recovered sharply in 1977. The deterioration was due principally
to international inflation (and consequent deterioration in the terms of
trade), exacerbated by the suspension in 1974 of the flow of Malawian migrant
workers to South Africa, which drastically reduced remittances, and substan-
tial capital outflows in 1975 and 1976. As a result, Malawi's foreign re-
serves declined from US$82 million in 1974 to US$26 million - equivalent to
about 1-1/2 months of imports - in 1976.  The Government took fiscal and mone-
tary measures to deal with the problem, and in 1977 the IMF made available
a first tranche standby credit, equivalent to US$6.3 million. Demand for
Malawi's main agricultural exports, however, continued strong, and foreign
exchange reserves rose to a record level of US$88 million (equivalent to about
four months of imports) by the end of 1977.
15.       The expansion of the Government's investment programs has been
assisted by increased public capital inflows on very concessionary terms.
The net contribution from foreign official sources to the financing of public
investment increased from US$17 million in 1967 to about US$45 million in
1976, of which US$11 million were in grant form. The sources also have
gradually been diversified. At independence, Britain was virtually the only
source; but by 1976, the British contribution had declined to about 40 per-
cent. Multilateral sources, especially IDA, provided about 40 percent, and
a variety of bilateral sources, notably Canada and the USA, accounted for the
remainder.
16.       At the end of 1976, Malawi's external public debt totaled US$343
million, of which US$258 million had been disbursed. Debt service in 1976
amounted to US$12.7 million, equivalent to about 7 percent of foreign exchange
earnings. At the end of 1976, IDA's share in Malawi's disbursed debt was
28.5 percent, and servicing of IDA credits accounted for 3.2 percent of total
debt service. With the continuing increase in public investment, external
capital inflow is estimated to increase to about US$125 million by 1982. In
the future, we may expect some hardening in the average terms of lending.
However, even if the average grant element of official assistance were to fall
from the 80 percent level of 1971-75 to, say, 50 percent by 1985, Malawi's
public debt service obligations still would remain below 10 percent of export
earnings in 1985. Because of the Government's limited ability to mobilize
domestic resources for the pipeline of projects it is able to prepare and
implement (para. 13), external financing usually covers a substantial part of
the project cost, including local costs when the foreign exchange component is
relatively small. Despite the Government's steady improvement in upping the
domestic share of development expenditures (27 percent in 1976), new invest-
ment is expanding more quickly than the domestic resource base. Moreover,
much of the Government's development outlays is necessarily concentrated in
activities not suitable for external assistance, so that the proportion of
external financing in specific projects usually ranges higher than the 73
percent overall figure in 1976. In consideration of the Government's good
performance in economic management and project preparation and implementation,
Malawi became a blend country in 1976 when it received a Bank loan on Third
Window terms.



-5-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
17.       Malawi has received sixteen IDA credits totalling US$122.2 million
and three Bank loans totalling US$26.2 million, of which two were on Third
Window terms. Of the total Bank Group assistance, US$51.8 million (35 per-
cent) was for agriculture, US$37.8 million (25 percent) to power development,
US$17.9 million (12 percent) to education, US$32.5 million (22 percent) for
roads and the balance of US$9.0 million (6 percent) for water supply and to
finance preparation of a planned pulp mill at Viphya. The first Bank loan
to Malawi was made on Third Window terms in June 1976 and the first standard
Bank loan in April 1977. IFC's first investment in Malawi was in February
1976 with a loan of US$6 million for a textile mill. IFC made its second loan
of US$9.0 million for a sugar development in April 1977. A summary statement
of Bank Group operations and notes on the execution of ongoing projects are
provided in Annex II. Project implementation is generally satisfactory.
18.       While Bank Group operations in Malawi will continue to emphasize
rural development, infrastructure (power, water supply and roads) and educa-
tion development also will receive attention. In agriculture, the first phase
of the 20-year National Rural Development Program was appraised last November
and a credit proposal is expected to be submitted to the Executive Directors
later this year. In education, a joint sector study was recently carried out
by UNESCO and the Bank. We expect to appraise a project later this year based
on its results. With regard to water supply, a WHO/Bank mission visited
Malawi in November 1977 to assess conditions in the sector and carry out pre-
liminary project identification. Finally, the Bank Group is also assisting
the Government, through a technical assistance/engineering credit, to prepare
the Viphya pulp and paper project, the total cost of which is tentatively
estimated at over US$500 million. Bank financial assistance for this project
will be considered if the project proves to be economically and financially
viable and suitable external guarantees are obtained.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
19.       In 1975/76 agriculture employed some 85 percent of the population,
contributed about 46 percent of GDP and accounted for 94 percent of export
earnings. The majority of the population is concentrated in the more fertile
southern regions of the country. About 82 percent of the total land area is
held under customary tenure, and about 2 percent is either freehold or
leasehold estates or plantations; the average holding is about 1.5 hectares.
Soils are relatively fertile, and the fairly reliable rainfall permits the
cultivation of a variety of food and cash crops. Land conservation and main-
tenance of soil fertility through the introduction of improved techniques and
inputs has become increasingly important as increased food requirements for
the expanding population have to be met through expanding cultivation to land
areas which are more susceptible to erosion.



-6-
Smallholder Production
20.       Smallholders, who account for 85 percent of all agricultural output,
grow maize (the most important crop), groundnuts, cassava, and, to a lesser
extent, rice, sorghum and wheat. Their main cash crops are groundnuts, rice,
flue-cured tobacco, cotton, pulses and maize. In 1976, exports of these
crops totalled US$54.3 million, or 35 percent of Malawi's agricultural export
earnings. Estates produce only 15 percent of total agricultural output, but
account for over 60 percent of agricultural exports (mainly tea and tobacco).
Exports from estates earned US$88.0 million in 1976.
21.       The Government is determined to achieve self-sufficiency in food
staples and at the same time maintain agricultural exports. In the past,
smallholder productivity was raised through: (i) low-cost rural development
projects (mostly funded by the UK and the UNDP), and (ii) larger, integrated
development programs in four specific areas; Lilongwe (supported with three
IDA Credits 113, 224 and 550), Shire Valley (supported with two IDA Credits
114 and 363), Karonga (supported with IDA Credit 282, and Third Window Loan
1286), and the Lake Shore, (first financed by the Federal Republic of Germany
and now by the European Development Fund (EDF)). These programs provide
infrastructure such as roads, markets, water and health facilities, land
improvement and conservation, irrigation, improved extension, and credit.
While the programs are making a significant contribution to increased agricul-
tural production, they affect only 25 percent of the rural population.
Livestock
22.       Malawi's total cattle population was estimated at over 700,000 in
1976, and is growing at a rate of about 5 percent per annum, with offtake
rates not generally higher than 10 percent. Nine percent of the cattle are
located in the Shire Valley. The cattle are raised for the most part by
traditional methods, and are valued mainly as a source of wealth; livestock
development is not fully integrated into the existing development programs.
Government activities include the operation of a fattening ranch, the intro-
duction of stall feeder schemes, and provision of artificial insemination
services. With the expansion of these schemes, Malawi is now self-sufficient
in better-grade beef; however, production of lowergrade beef does not meet
domestic requirements.
Government Agricultural Services
23.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) is pri-
marily responsible for providing services to the agricultural sector. The
Ministry exercises general supervision over the activities of the Agricultural
Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC), which buys, stores, processes
and markets (both locally and abroad) all marketable cotton and tobacco.
ADMARC acts as a residual buyer of smallholder produce, a large amount of
which is either sold or bartered among the farmers themselves. ADMARC also
implements the Government's agricultural price policy and supplies inputs to
smallholders. Most cash and subsistence crop prices are established by ADMARC



-7-
(with the approval of the Minister of Agriculture). Another smallholder
marketing institution, the Cold Storage Company, is responsible for the
Government's price and stabilization policies in the livestock sub-sector.
Project Area
24.       The Lower Shire Valley, an elongated alluvial plain about 144 km
long and 16-32 km across, covers almost 7,000 square kilometers in the
southern part of Malawi. The Valley's population, about 310,000 people, live
mostly on the valley floor, where population density is about 150 per square
kilometer. Approximately 70,000 smallholder families live in the Project area
and cultivate about 1.5 ha each from which they earn the equivalent of about
US$15 per capita yearly.
25.       During a six-month long wet season, the Valley receives an average
rainfall of 750 mm. Its soils can support both rainfed and irrigated cropping.
Cotton, maize, millet, sorghum and groundnuts are the major dryland crops.
The Valley's extensive marshes and riverine flats are good natural grazing
areas and support about 60,000 heads of cattle and a large goat population.
Fish, mostly from the marshes, is important both for local consumption and for
export to surrounding areas.
26.       The recently completed bitumen road from Chikwawa to Bangula has
improved travel in the valley, and an access road from the Shire highlands
to the Valley, now being built, will improve it further. The Shire River is
navigable as far as Chikwawa, and barges from Nchalo carry SUCOMA sugar to
the railhead at Chiromo.
Previous IDA-Assisted Agricultural Prolects in the Shire Valley
The Shire Valley Agricultural Development Program (SVADP) - Phase I
27.       The Shire Valley is an economically depressed region with high
incidence of disease and low agricultural productivity. Consequently, the
Government has, since the late 1960's, given high priority to a comprehensive
development program in the area. The first phase of this program - The Shire
Valley Agricultural Development Program - Phase I (SVADP I) - began in 1968
and aimed at increasing crop production on about 50,000 ha. The project, with
a total cost of US$4.6 million, was supported with an IDA Credit (114-MAI)
totalling US$3.7 million.
28.       The project was completed on schedule in March 1973.  The comple-
tion report and the performance audit judged the project to have been well
conceived, effectively implemented and successful in involving area residents
in the rural development effort. This provided the initial stimulus for the
participation and cooperation of the people in subsequent phases.
29.       The physical implementation of the project was good and appraisal
targets were in most cases either met or exceeded. The credit program was
effective, and a repayment rate of over 90 percent was maintained over the



-8-
life of the project. Extension work and crop services focused on cotton -
mainly because of the lack of a suitable technical package for other crops.
The appraisal target of inducing up to 4000 farmers to adopt the use of
sprayers was exceeded by 30 percent. In practice, average yields of sprayed
cotton were between 800 and 1,000 kg/ha compared with appraisal projections
of 300 to 900 kg per ha.
SVADP - Phase II
30.       Because Phase I had covered only a limited geographic area, it was
decided that the second project should offer a more broadly based rural devel-
opment program, which would provide agricultural services and infrastructural
facilities to a larger area than under Phase I. The Project was appraised
in June 1972, and an IDA credit of US$10.5 million (total project cost was
US$13.5 million) was approved in March 1973 (363-MAI). The credit was fully
disbursed in April, 1978. The project's primary objective was to increase
crop production on 52,000 ha of land. The agricultural component was expected
to affect some 16,300 farmers as well as some 1,000 fishermen.
31.       The infrastructural components of the project were completed satis-
factorily and on schedule. However, due largely to a severe two-year drought
and low producer prices, particularly for cotton, the appraisal targets for
crops production were not attained. Two outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease
limited the success of the livestock development program and the project
management unit did not have adequate capacity to cope with both constructing
the physical infrastructure and improving the extension services. The fish-
eries program attained its appraisal targets of about 8,000 metric tons in
1976. Farmer participation in the credit program remained high and, the
Government supplied required additional funds. Repayment rates fell from 90
to about 45 percent as a result of the poor harvests of the drought years but
have improved since the good harvest season of 1976/77.
32.       If it is assumed that the results of Phase II are limited to those
already achieved, Phase II would show a zero economic rate of return. It can,
however, be argued that much of what has been done in Phase II has provided
the basis for the proposed consolidation phase, the economic return for which
is expected to be about 20 percent. When Phase II and the proposed consolida-
tion phase are combined, the economic rate of return is about 8 to 10 percent.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
A. General Description
33.       The proposed Project was prepared by the Malawi Government, with
assistance from the Association. It was appraised in the field in August
1977. Supplementary Project data are provided in Annex III. The Staff
Appraisal Report is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations were held in Washington in May 1978. The Malawi delegation was
led by Mr. C. Mpande, Under Secretary, Ministry of Finance.



-9-
34.       The proposed Project will constitute the third phase of the Shire
Valley Agricultural Development Program, consolidating the investments made
and drawing on the experience gained under the program over the past five
years. The Project's major objectives are to: (i) increase the number of
farmers adopting improved cropping practices by about 15,000 so that some
40,000 farmers (55 percent of the Valley's smallholders) will have adopted
at least some improved practices by full development; (ii) expand the area
on which improved cropping is practiced from about 11,000 ha (12 percent of
cropped area) to about 50,000 ha (47 percent of cropped area) by 1982/83;
and (iii) provide increased social services to benefit the Valley's 70,000
families directly or indirectly. Over a four-year period, the Project will
specifically:
(a) establish headquarters for 5 additional Extension Planning
Areas (EPAs) with the required staff housing, training and
administrative facilities;
(b) establish a 150 ha irrigated seed selection and multiplication
farm, directed by an expanded research team;
(c) continue seasonal and medium-term credit for farm and fisheries
production inputs;
(d) construct additional livestock markets and dips, expand foot-
and-mouth disease and tsetse control, and expand the ox-training
program;
(e) expand the Project Management's Natural Resources Division
to include a Forestry Development Unit, and continue the
improvement of wildlife facilities;
(f) develop groundwater resources including constructing 40
additional boreholes, carrying out a groundwater survey
and providing consultants' services to review experiences
gained under existing irrigation schemes and to undertake
an irrigation feasibility study of the Valley;
(g) continue and improve Project area health facilities;
(h) complete the access road network, and maintain project roads,
buildings and equipment; and
(i) continue and expand the Project Evaluation Unit and finance,
for two years, the position of Chief Planning Officer in the
MANR.
The Project will be administered by the SVADP management team, under the
general direction of the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources.
The health component will be administered by the Ministry of Health.



- 10 -
B. Detailed Features
Extension and Training
35.       The extension system will be reorganized and intensified to provide
farmers with up-to-date advice on farming practices having an immediate impact
on yields. Each Technical Assistant (TA-village extension workers) will cover
about 600 farm families, divided into smaller groups of about 100 families.
Each TA will visit his assigned group once every two weeks. The TAs will
be trained by the Project's Staff Technical Officers. The Government will,
through training and recruitment, improve the present ratio of a TA to 1000
farmers to 1 to 600 (see Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). The proposed extension methodology is based on frequent farm visits
and, as it is essential that field staff and their supervisors live near their
work and are sufficiently mobile to enable them to function effectively, the
proposed project includes provision for staff houses and vehicles.
Research
36.       The Project Research Unit will provide the extension service staff
with relevant technological information, suitably adapted to the locality and
major crop combinations of the five ecological zones identified in the Valley.
All project agricultural research in the Lower Shire Valley will be directed
by the Project's Senior Agricultural Research Officer, based at Ngabu, assisted
by additional staff to be provided under the Project.
Seed Multiplication
37.       An irrigated seed selection and multiplication farm for maize,
sorghum, millet, groundnuts and beans will be built at the Makanga Research
Station. At full development, sales from the scheme will cover its operating
costs. The formal transfer of land required for the seed farm to the control
and adminstration of the project's management team is a condition of effec-
tiveness of the Credit Agreement (Section 5.01 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Credit
38.       The credit scheme established under Phases I and II of the SVADP to
provide credit for farmers and fishermen is maintained as a revolving fund and
is sufficient to cover the borrowing expected under the proposed project. The
proposed credit therefore includes financing for only the administration of
the credit scheme. An estimated 30-35,000 smallholders and fishermen are
expected to use seasonal and medium term credit for production inputs. Annual
interest rates for seasonal credit will be 15 percent, with a 15 percent down
payment, and 10 percent for medium term credit, with no down payment. Group
credit started in the first phase project will be expanded under the proposed
project in order to lower administrative costs and improve repayment rates;
annual interest rates will be 10 percent under such loans.



Livestock
39.       The livestock extension staff will be expanded to support a market-
ing campaign, better disease control, and utilization of the ox-training
facilities. The Project will finance an additional cattle market near Njanje
and expansion of the Khaombe holding ground established under the previous
project. The tsetse investigation team, established during Phase II, will be
continued for two additional years.  The Project will assist in financing the
foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) and tryposomiasis vaccination programs which will
be implemented by the Veterinary Department of the MANR with technical guidance
from the Animal Virus Research Institute of Pirbright, UK.
Natural Resources
40.       The Land Husbandry Section will continue to monitor the ecological
effects of the development program on the Valley's natural resources, and will
work with the Extension Department in providing additional resource informa-
tion on early cultivation, plant densities, and rotations as they affect
retention of soil moisture. The Project will continue the provision of
assistance to the fisheries industry through expanding and improving infra-
structure, the fishermen training program, credit for boat purchases, and
pollution and pesticide monitoring in order to achieve the goal of an annual
catch of 12,000 metric tons. The Project provides for four boat landings,
sixty fish smoking kilns and five hundred canoes.
41.       The Project includes an afforestation program, to be carried out
by the Forestry Unit within the Project's Natural Resources Division.  The
program would seek to involve the local population in the planting and care
of forestry plantations. This component also includes investigation of the
adaptabilities of species, increased control of forests, teaching techniques
of tree management and attempts to reduce erosion problems which have arisen
due to uncontrolled and indiscriminate tree exploitation.
42.       The Project will complete the construction of staff houses, fencing,
ditches, and boundary demarcation started in Phase II. Funds will also be
provided for increasing existing overnight tourist accommodations in Lengwe
National Park from the present two four-bed chalets to 5 chalets, with
17 beds, electricity, and running water.
Water Resources and Health
43.       An experienced hydrogeologist will be recruited to conduct hydro-
logical studies, supervise the construction of boreholes and wells and deter-
mine the location and availability of groundwater for public water supply.
The Project will also finance consultants, satisfactory to the Association, to
undertake: (i) a national study of the organization, operation and policies
of existing irrigation schemes in Malawi, and (ii) a surface-water irrigation
feasibility study for the Shire Valley. Commencement of (i) will be a condi-
tion of disbursement for (ii) (see Schedule 1, paragraph 4(ii) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Forty additional boreholes for village potable



- 12 -
water will be drilled and developed. Poor maintenance of the grounds sur-
rounding existing boreholes has reduced their yields and contaminated their
water. Disbursements for the proposed additional boreholes will not be
approved until the Government has prepared a program, satisfactory to the
Association, to involve villagers in maintenance of the areas surrounding the
wells (Schedule 1, paragraph 4(iii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The Government has agreed to implement the program.
44.       The health improvement program for the Project area will be expanded
with construction of two maternity/dispensary sub-centers, and four health
posts. Field latrines, and village bathing/laundry facilities will be built
to support the bilharzia control program.
Roads and Maintenance
45.       The Project road construction program will build secondary and
district roads to support agricultural development throughout the Valley.
Maintenance of completed main and secondary roads will be the responsibility
of the Ministry of Works (MOW). District roads will be maintained by the
Project Maintenance Unit during the four-year project period and by the
MOW or the district councils thereafter (see Section 3.05 of the draft Devel-
opment Credit Agreement). The Project will finance construction and the
purchase of road building equipment.
46.       Special units, staffed and equipped under the project, will maintain
and repair all Project housing, vehicles and equipment.
Evaluation
47.       The existing Evaluation Unit, which has an experienced field and
supervisory staff, carries out annual farm surveys similar to those in the
Karonga and Lilongwe projects. The Project will provide and develop a computer
package program for analyzing the annual farm survey data, including the pur-
chase of computer time. Close liaison will be maintained with other evalua-
tion units of the National Statistics Office and the Headquarters Planning
Unit to ensure uniformity in field surveys and reporting techniques.
Project Administration
48.       The proposed project includes a provision for eleven additional staff
for the Project Manager's Office and two accountants and a procurement and
stores officer for the Finance Division to handle the increased volume of work
arising out of the expansion of the program into new areas. It will also
finance, for two years, the services of an expatriate to serve as MANR's Chief
of Planning as well as the training of a Malawian national to replace the
expatriate (Section 4.05 of the Development Credit Agreement).
49.       The Project also provides for staff housing, buildings, office
equipment and supplies, storage facilities, vehicles and operating costs as
required for each component.



- 13 -
C. Project Cost and Financing
50.       The total cost of the proposed Project is estimated at US$12.6 mil-
lion (the Project is exempt from taxes and duties), of which about US$5.8
million, or 46 percent, represents foreign exchange requirements. The pro-
posed IDA credit of US$10.7 million would finance 85 percent of project costs
including all foreign exchange and 72 percent (US$4.9 million) of local costs.
The Government would provide the remaining 15 percent (US$1.9 million equiva-
lent). This proportion of IDA financing is justified in view of the financial
demands of Malawi's development program and the country's limited ability to
meet them with domestic resources (paras. 13 and 16). Costs are expressed
in April 1978 prices. A physical contingency of 5 percent was applied to
all costs; price contingencies were applied at varying rates. Project costs
include operating costs to the extent they are needed to attain higher levels
of production expected under the Project as compared to those attained under
previous phases of the SVADP program. The recurrent costs of providing con-
tinuing services to farmers and fishermen to maintain levels of production
already attained under the previous phases are not included in the project
costs. The Government will finance these recurrent costs from its budget (see
Section 3.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Project-related
expenditures estimated at about US$600,000 and expected to be incurred from
April 1, 1978 (when disbursements for the Phase II project were completed)
until the Agreement for the proposed credit is signed, are recommended for
retroactive financing.
D. Procurement and Disbursements
51.       Procurement of vehicles, machinery and equipment (US$1.6 million)
in orders of US$50,000 or over would be subject to international competitive
bidding according to IDA guidelines; orders would be bulked whenever possible.
Civil works and boreholes (US$1.5 million) which, due to their small sizes
and dispersed locations, would not attract international competitive bidding,
would be constructed after local competitive bidding, or by force account.
Purchase of office equipment (US$15,500) would be subject to local competitive
bidding in accordance with existing government tender procedures, which are
satisfactory to IDA.
52.       Proceeds of the credit would be disbursed on the following basis:
(i) 100 percent of foreign costs of internationally recruited personnel and
consultants; (ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for vehicles and equip-
ment if directly imported or 85 percent if imported and purchased locally;
and (iii) 85 percent of total costs of civil works, operating costs of
vehicles and machinery and local personnel. A schedule of estimated dis-
bursements is in the Credit and Project Summary.



- 14 -
Project Implementation
53.       The Project would be implemented by the existing SVADP management
team, supplemented by additional local staff to be recruited (para. 48). No
substantive changes are envisaged in the existing organizational structure.
The Project Manager would continue to be responsible to the Permanent Secretary
of MANR, who would provide overall policy guidance for the program. The Pro-
ject Manager's office would oversee the four main operational divisions (Agri-
culture, Natural Resources, Finance, Technical) and the Ancillary Services
Division. The health component would be administered by the Ministry of
Health. ADMARC would oversee construction of the markets and input stores.
The seven top management posts will continue to be filled by suitably qual-
ified personnel and any replacements would be selected after consultation with
the Association. The Government will also prepare a program in consultation
with the Association for the training of Malawians to replace all the expat-
riates by 1982 (see Section 4.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
E. Environmental Effects
54.       The Natural Resources Division of the Project Unit would monitor
the environmental effects of the Project on the Shire River and its major
tributaries. The Forestry Unit would enforce measures to control erosion and
river siltation caused by forest cutting and cultivation of the escarpments
surrounding the Valley. SVADP-related activity has been centered mostly on
the Valley floor, to minimize erosion problems developed by cultivation of the
hills.
F. Production, Markets and Prices
Crop Package
55.       In addition to improved drought-resistant cereal varieties, the
package includes pest control measures and moisture conserving land prepara-
tion methods. The recommended crops are traditional in the various regions.
Adoption of the basic package will only require farmers' acceptance of rela-
tively simple changes in their present methods and minimal additional cash
outlays. Improved drought-resistant varieties of cereal grains seed will be
selected and multiplied to meet project needs on the proposed irrigated seed
selection and multiplication farm at Makanga. Production of seed for sale to
project smallholders is projected to increase by 25 percent reaching 225
tons of maize, 225 tons of sorghum, 70 tons of millet, 62 tons of groundnuts
and 119 tons of beans in 1981/82.
56.       Yields of cereal grains are expected to increase by about 35 percent
and those of cotton to double. Additional crop production in the Project area
will come primarily from increased yields, as the total areas planted will



- 15 -
remain fairly constant. The area in which improved farming practices are used
is projected to increase from 11,000 ha to about 50,000 ha at full development.
On this assumption, incremental production of the major crops attributable to
the project would be 4,300 tons of cotton, 8,200 tons of maize, 1,600 tons
of sorghum and 2,800 tons of rice at full development.
57.       The proposed improvements in extension, marketing facilities and
control of FMD and tryposomiasis coupled with the growing demand for young
feeder cattle, are expected to raise cattle sales steadily. Annual offtake
should increase from the present 9 percent (5,400 head) to 12 percent (8,800
head) at full development. Without the project, uncontrolled herd growth
could lead to serious feed shortages and consequently higher mortality and
lower reproductive rates. With the proposed support for fishermen training,
the establishment of modern smoking kilns and the construction of additional
boat landings, fish output should increase by 2,700 tons per annum during the
next four years (an increase in the order of 30 percent).
Marketing
58.       Rising demand in the Valley and adjacent regions is expected to
absorb the Project's entire output of food, meat and fish. Since the Valley
is deficit in cereal grains, the increased production from the improved maize
and sorghum varieties to be introduced by the Project would reduce the deficit,
and provide an improved diet for the Valley population. Meat sales have been
steadily high, with good demand from buyers from outside the Valley who pur-
chase both slaughter and feeder stock. Sales of smoked fish from modern kilns
have also been strong, with a steady demand by traders inside and adjacent to
the Valley. Cotton produced in the Valley, which is a high grade, strong,
medium-to-long staple, is expected to be exported without difficulty, and,
because of its superior quality, brings about a 10 percent premium over
similar grades on the world market.
59.       ADMARC maintains a well established network of 43 markets in the
Shire Valley, an average of one per 1,500 farm families, over 90 percent of
whom live within three miles of a market. Cotton prices are fixed country-
wide with the two-fold objective of insuring a reasonable return to the
farmer and earning surpluses to support national development programs. ADMARC
announced a 3.3 tambala per kg, (or 17 percent), price increase for seed
cotton just prior to the 1977/78 planting season, and recent information from
the field indicates an increase in plantings. In 1977, ADMARC's purchasing
prices were MK 140 and MK 51 per metric ton for cotton and maize respectively.
60.       Livestock are marketed at regular public sales located in centers
of livestock concentration. Sales are supervised by the Veterinary Department
of MANR. The auction markets function effectively, and demand has always been
high for Valley animals because of their size and generally good body condi-
tion. Selling prices are calculated on actual liveweight of the animal before
it enters the auction, and range from 6 tambala per kg to 7 tambala per kg
(i.e. above the announced government floor prices, of 5 tambala per kg for
commercial, and 4 tambala per kg for standard grades).



- 16 -
61.       Seventy percent of the annual fish catch is consumed locally, and
the balance sold to traders from areas adjoining the Valley. With the use
of modern fish smoking kilns, demand for the traditional catch has increased,
so that a kilogram of smoked fish now sells at 24 tambala (compared to 7
tambala for unsmoked and 20 tambala for traditionally smoked fish).
G. Benefits and Risks
62.       The Project will provide rural development services and agricul-
tural production assistance to nearly all the 70,000 families in the project
area. About 55 percent of these farmers will benefit directly from improved
and intensified extension and training services. Incremental production
would range from about 47 to 72 percent depending on the ecology of the zone.
Smallholder families who adopt the improved farming practices could, by full
development, increase their annual incomes from about US$75 per family at
present to about US$122.
63.       The Government will not be able to recover fully the on-going ex-
penditure under this Project. After Project completion, and excluding debt
service, the annual cost to Government to maintain the level of extension and
other services would total about MK 0.53 million, amounting to a cumulative
deficit of MK 8.99 million (US$9.88 million) in 20 years. In establishing
the Government's cash flow, ADMARC's profits are assumed to be benefits to the
Government and have been calculated on the basis of actual average profit on
cotton purchases over the last five years. Farmers' contributions to Govern-
ment revenue through indirect taxes resulting from increased income are
expected to be insignificant and have not been taken into account. The issue
of cost recovery and Malawi's capacity to sustain projects with extensive
service components is to be addressed on a national basis in the context of
the proposed NRDP, which was recently appraised and which is expected to be
submitted for consideration of the Executive Directors later this year. Any
policies adopted for cost recovery under the NRDP will also apply to this
project (see Section 3.10 of the Credit Agreement).
64.       At full development (1982/83), the annual value of incremental crop
production attributable to the Project would be about US$1.5 million. Seed
cotton, cereal grains, groundnuts and beans have been valued at export parity
prices; brewing sorghum, until now an imported commodity, has been valued at
its import parity price. Local market prices have been applied to fish and
beef. In addition to the quantifiable benefits, the population of the Valley
would benefit from improved potable water supplies, health facilities and
roads, and a larger supply of firewood.
65.       The overall economic rate of return (ERR) of the Project over 20
years would be 20 percent. The overall ERR of the Project and its predecessor
Phase II combined would be 8 to 10 percent (para 32). A number of significant
risks face the Project: (i) Although the drought-resistant cereal varieties



- 17 -
have been widely tested, they have been grown by farmers in only a limited
area, and only widespread use under varying weather conditions can furnish a
true test. (ii) Based on the long-term projections of rainfall in the Valley,
crop yields under the proposed project have been calculated on the basis of a
dry year every four years. No allowance has been made for a repeat of the two
consecutive exceptionally dry years encountered during the implementation of
Phase II. (iii) Given its innovative nature, the extension, training and
visit system may encounter unforeseen problems. And (iv) the vaccination
program proposed to control foot-and-mouth disease may not reach all the
cattle which move in and out of the Valley. These uncertainties and the
limited progress in building up production under the previous phase led to
a cautious approach in designing this Project. If increases in yields were
reduced from 40 percent to 25 percent, the ERR would fall to 17 percent. A 25
percent reduction in all benefits would yield a 12 percent rate of return, and
a 10 percent increase in the rate at which farmers adopt improved practices
would result in a 25 percent rate of return. These figures all assume a zero
price for labor; if the minimum wage is used for pricing labor during the
peak-labor-demand cotton picking period, the rate of return is reduced by 2
percent.
66.       For crops alone, the Project would increase productive employment
by 22 percent, equivalent to about 2.0 million mandays of work or about 7,500
permanent unskilled workers. Except for a short peak period during cotton
harvest, these requirements could be met from the existing local population.
Alternative labor opportunities in the Valley have declined in recent years,
due to the completion of the main highway and most SVADP civil works and to
the suspension of recruitment for South African mines.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Malawi and the Association, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
68.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. (a) An additional condition of effectiveness is that about 150
hectares of land at the Makanga Research Station be transferred to the con-
trol and administration of the Project's management team (Section 5.01 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). (b) Conditions of disbursements
are that: (i) disbursements will not be made for the Shire Valley irrigation
feasibility study until the study of experiences under existing irrigation
schemes has been started (Schedule 1, para. 4(ii) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement), and (ii) disbursements will not be made for boreholes until
the Borrower has prepared a program satisfactory to the Association to involve
villagers in the maintenance of boreholes and their surroundings (Schedule 1,
para. 4(iii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 18 -
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 24, 1978



- 19 -
ANNX I
TABLE 3A
MALAWI              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                                     ----------------------------
---------------                                 MALAWI                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      118.5                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      41.2                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE         SOMALIA         TANZANIA      SWAZILAND *
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     40.0       70.0     140.0               80.0       100.0  /a  210.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
___________ __________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            3.5       4.5       5.2                 2.8        12.9 /a      0.42
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       20.0      38.0     44.0                  4.0        14.0 /a    24.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       92.0      114.0   126.0                   9.0        25.0 /a    30.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         49.0      49.3       47.7               47.7        50.5        50.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          30.6      29.1       23.7               23.8        23.0        24.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)          ,.         ..     142.0                  ..    160-1651b
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       35.0      38.5       41.0               38.5        41.8        41.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2       3.2        3.2                3.0         3.2         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 2.2       2.6        2.4                2.4         3.0/a       2.7
URBAN                                 5.5       5.0        5.3                6.1         5.6        13.6
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)           4.4        5.6       6.4               25.6         5s5/b      10.3
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       42.9      43.9       45.4               46.5        44.4/b-   46.81a
15 TO 64 YEARS                       53.2      52.1       51.3               51.6        53.0/b      49.1 /a
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.9       4.0        3.3                 1.9        2.6,-       4.3/,
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9        0.9       0.9                0.9         o.g/b       1.o/a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                -.0/a     1.1/a                         1.2/a      1.2/alb    1.2/b
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..         .         ..
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)                        ..            ..          ..
EMPLOYMENT
__________
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         1700.0   2000.Q    2300.0                1100.0     s6oo.o/a b 180.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE CX)         93.0      69.0       86.0               B2.0        91. 0       86.5
UNEMPLOYED (S OF LABOR FORCE)            ..         ..        ..                20.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
O OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..       29.5        ..                  ..       33.5
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..       52.9        ..                  ..       63.3
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               .       5.7                   ..                  2.3
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               .      15.0         ..                            7.
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..         ..         ..
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..         ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                      75250.0                       21420.0    21570.0/a   8100.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON                  6620.0                        3260.0/C   4s90.0/a         ..
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            40.0/b  760.0                          560.0       700-0/a    300.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)        86.0      103.0      103.0                80.0       73.0        90.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              50.0      14.0       68.4               57.0        43.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          6.0/c     9.0/b                        27.0/d      23.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..         ..         ..
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO            63.0        40.0       61.0                10.0       35.0        60.0
PRIMARY SCHOOL
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      1.0        2.0       3.0                 5.0        3.0        19.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             14.0      14.0       14.0                12.0       13.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     24.0       3.0        8.5                  ..       10.0/c       2.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE {X)                  ..       22.0        ..                 5.0         ..        30.0
HOUSI NG
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 ..        1.9/c     1.7
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                        .-      79.0/c.d    *.                   *-       30.0 /b,d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..       l6.0/C.d    ..                  ..         ..         9.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                     ..         ..         ..                 ..
CONSUMP TI ON
___________
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          9.0/d    20.0       26.0                19.0        11.0       74.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            ..        2.0       2.3                 2.0         3.0       10.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           10.0       32.0      56.0                10.0        31.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                         0.05       0.06                0.2         0.1
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



- 20 -
ANNEX I
NOTES
Unles otherwise noted, da', for 1960 refer to any year betwen 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 end 1971, and for Most Recent Estimte between
1973 and 1976.
a  Sweailand hba  been aslected as an objective country became  the economic structure of both countries are quite siilar
KALAWI       1960    Ia   atio of population under 15 and 65 snd over to total labor force;    /b  1963              /c  1961-63;    /d  Including data for
Southern Rhodesia and Zambia.
1970    /4  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    Lb  1964-66;    /c  1967;    /d  Urban only.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    /a  Ratio of population 15 end 65  nd over to total labor force.
S5OMALIA     1970    /-  Ratio of population under 15 end 65  nd over to total labor fonre;    /b  Urban only;    /c  Inoluding midwive  end
assistant nurses;    /d  1964-66.
TANZANIA    1970    /a  Mainland Tenoanis;    /b  1967;    /c  1965;    /d  A. percentage of'urban houneholde.
SWAZILAND   1970    Ia  1966;    /b  Ratio of population under 13 and 65 end over to total labor force.
Ril, April 17, 1979
DWI1NrEI0S OP0 SOCIA. I,ilICATORS
Lund Area (thou k,2)                                                                         population per nursing prson - Population divided by no,ber of practicing
Trtul - Total nurface ares cosprlsing lend are  ad inland waters.                               aIe snd female grduate nurses, "trained" or 'oertifid"'  -urdee, erd
Agric. - Mot recent estimate of agricultural area used tmporarily or peea-                     aunilisry personnel with training or experLence.
neetly for crops, pastures, market b kitchen gardens or to lie fallo.                      Population per bonpital bed - Population divided by nmbher of hospital bode
syllable in public end private genera1 and epeciained hoopitl and
1NS  per c-pita (US0) - GNP per capita estimates  t currnt market prices,                      rehabilitation c-nters; encludan nursing hoos and eatabliahsente  for
uIculintd by  -ane convorsion _thod  se World Bank Atl.s  (1974-76 basis);                  cu todial and preventiva rare.
1960; 1970 end 1976 data.                                                                  Per  apita supply of calories  (  of reouire,neere5  - C-peted frn- energy
equivalent of net food supplif aveilable in country per capita per day;
Pbpulation and vital  tatiotica                                                                sysilebl  aupplies .npriss dooxatic prod-cnion, imports I..s erports, end
ronula,Aic  (mid-year million) - Au of July first:  if not avileblo, average                   cheoge  in stork; net aupplies exclude animel feed, seeds, quantities used
of two end-year netboat.a; 1960, 1970 and 1976 det.                                          in food proceasng and looses in distribution; reqoirmnta were eati,ated
by FAO based on phyaiologicel neada for annrel activity end health coneid-
Population density - par square kh  - Mid-year population par square kilometer                 sring environse,tel temperature, body weighto, age  nd sex distributions of
(100 bhctacen) of Intel aroa                                                                 population, and allowing lO  for w ate at houaehold level.
Popolatino  desirnt  - nr en.ore ho of earin. land - C-puted as above for                    P r nahitf  surely of protein Corna nen dcy) - Protein contant of per capita
apricolturai land oly.                                                                       net supply of food per day; net supply of food is defined as above; require-
wacts for all coutries established by USDA Econonfc It...etch Service
Vital statistics                                                                               provide for a  niin  allowance of 60 gras. of total protein per duy, and
Crude birth rate par thousand.  verage - Annual live births par thourand of                    20 gr-s of animal snd puls protein, of which 10 grs   should bh  animal
rid-your population; ten-your arith_ltic svereges eding in 1960 and 1970,                    protein; theas standards re lower then those of 75 gras  of total protein
aud fiie-y-nor  e8age ending in 1975 for most recent ea tia.                                 snd 23 grass of animl protein anso average for tho wrld, proposed by FAo
Crude death rate per thousand, avernge - An-u.I deaths par thaunand of mid-year                 in rho Third World Pond Survey.
peplacon; inn-year ethritha otic avrages ending in 1960 and 1970 and fiv-                  Per eapita protein supply fron animl and rules  - Protin supply of food
year averago ending in 1975 for nart recent estimte                                          derived frn  aonimls and pulses in gr_aa per dy.
1Infant  -ortality rate (/thou) - A.nual deaths of infants under one year of *ge             Deeth rate (/thou) agen 1-4 - AnMunl deaths por thonsend in age group 1-4
per thuu,aud live births.                                                                    yacr, to  hbildren in this .e group; -sggSoted aa an indtcator of
tiC  _Pecaccy 0t birth ins) - Average onur of years of life r-oaining at                        alnutrition.
birth; unually five-year c-eragas ending in 1960, 1970 sad 1975 for develop-
ing countries                                                                              Education
irus- reproductino  -ute - Awerege nbebr of live daughters a wn  uill bear                   Adjusted enrollment ratio - prie ry achool - Enrollment of .11 agne au  per-
in hoc tnoal reproductive period if ohs experiences present xge-epmcifii                     ce.tage of priry school-age population; includes childrmn aged 6-11 years
fertility r-rco; coo ily five-ye-r aver-ges cding in 1960, 1970 nd 1975                      but  djusted for different lengthe oc prIemay edartcis; for countries with
for devlpngcutre.eiverea  adun.tion, enrollment may acead lOtX ai     sum  pupils arc below
Population crowd, rate (%) - total - Cumpound annual growth rates of mid-year                  or above the official *chool age.
pupulation for 1950-60, 1960-70 end 1970-75.                                               Ad1uted enrellaut ratio - aecondaty school - Conpured  s above; secondary
populotion growth rate (%) - urban - Conputed like growth rate of total                        education requires at least four years of approved primary in truction;
populatiuc; different definition  of urban ares  may affect c.parability of                  provides genral, vocational or teacher training instruction  for pupils
dare ato. g ceuctri-i.                                                                       of 12 to 17 yesrs of  ge; correspondence nree  ar  generally excluded.
Urban eupulatio- (t of totel) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                Yesrs of -h-ooling provided (fir-t and second levels) - Total yesre of
definitions of urban arose  my affect -ogperability of dot. song countries.                   chooling; at emaosdary leve1, voaotionul imtruction   y be partially or
e  plstely exeddd
ARs atructura  prcent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),                   Vcation l orolLntftendsry) - Vacctional institutions include
end retired (65 years and over) as parcastag-s of mid-ye-r popultiono.                        cnical, industrial or othor progres which oparste independently or s
Age desenda-cn ratio - gRtio of pnpulstion under 15  nd 65 ad over to thasa                    depar-toste of secondary inatitutiona.
of 5000 15 through 64.                                                                     Adult literacy rate it) - Lir.arat   dults (able to read and writs) a  par-
gt"conic drep.dancv ratio - Ratio of population undcr 15 sod 65 and wvmr to                   c..tage of total adult population aged 15 years end over.
the labuc force in see group of 15-64 years
FPnily rla..i.ano n .cots (cu t,ltivs, thau  - Cuislative mesber of acceptors                Housing
of btrh--control d-vione  under .uspics of rational fatly planing progra                   Person ear raon (urban) - Aversge nunber of person- per roon in occupied
,irce iruption,                                                                              convention l delings in urban arass  dwellings exclude non-permanent
Fouily Ploina - us-ee (7 of mtrried -unon) - Percentages of earried wuao  of                   structures  nd unoccupied part.
child-b-ortcg  ge (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices to a11 arried                Ocnid d weigs withou cpi              rdlig
coe  i  om   g  grcup.                                                                in uran sod rura Ireaa airhot inside or outsde piped' wter facilities
Enplocunt                                                                                     Acces to electr.iciyf  of all dw1llngs) -ConvenniOonl dwellinga with
Total lbur force (thousand) - Econonically entice persona , including anmd                      1*;ctrinity in living qsrtertwa aper ent  on totaI d ing 11eins arhn and
furcea sod ucouplyed but excluding houxewiwe, studants, oe.; dafinitin                      ruro re  areas.
incrfa countries urn not nmprsble                                                          Sural dwelling  connetd to sl1otricivit)y    Conputd as above for rural
Labor furco in agriculture t) - Agricultural labor force (in faring, fors try,                  dwellings only.
hunting ond fishing) ss percentage of taral labor fans.
-enemlovod C( of labor force) - Snaplayed are usually defined .s parsons who                 ConnunPtinn
are shin  and willing to rshe a jb, our ofsJob on a given day, reimand out                 Pdi recivr  leer thouno)   All types of receivears for rsdio broad .a.ts
of a Job, and seeking work for a  pacifisd  inima pariod not exceeding on                     to genr   pbl                  d of  opulti; exclode  unlicened recein-rs
cenk; ray nor be c-parable betwaen countries due to different definitions                     in  Wounries and in ysrs when registration, of radio sets w-  is effect;
of un__ployId snd sourux of detn, e.g., mploynet offic  satiatica, saple                     data for recent yeare may not be conporabls  ince nant runcrie  uboliahod
_urnyo, cpsl-nry uc_ploymei inaunc.                                                           liceaing.
Passenger crfettono)-Psssengsr cars r-prise meter car  seating
l,one distribution - Percentage of private intome (both  n cash a0d bind)                       Ese           ( thena sons      des   b1u.an.en.  hrss and military
coevdby richant it, richeet 20t, Poorest 2ot, and poorest 40t of hones-                      vehicle.
hu1o                                                                                       Electricity  (kwh/yr perae) - A-nual conauption of industrial, cesner.i.1,
public and privat  eletricity in kilo wtt hours per capita, generlly
Dfatributi-n of laud oucrthip - Percsntsges of lad owned by wealthiest lOti                     baed Mnproduction data, without alloanc  far lo..en in grids hut allo--
and Poorest 10t cf land  -ere.                                                                Ingfar iparte and e-mpots of electricity.
Naweprint (kg/yr per caP) - Per cepita -anual ronomption in kilograom
Health and NuLritimn                                                                            etimstad fre onsetic production pi.. net imports of newsprint.
Population per physicion - Population divided by nuabr of practicing
phyeic.. qualified fre a ndical school at univceeity leel.



- 21 -                               ANNEX I
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant _riccs)
US$ Mlin.          X                                1964-75           1976
GNP at Market Prices           687.8          100.0                                 6.S              0.9
Cross Domestic Investment      123.4           17.9                                 11.5           -38.5
Gross National Savings          60.0            8.7                                 14.0           -22.0
Current Account Balance        -63.4           -9.2
Exports of Goods, NFS          202.6           29.5                                  7.5             6.6
imports of Goods, NFS          246.4           35.8                                 6.7            -18.7
OUTPUT, EMPLOYMENT AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                       Labor Force                   V. A. Per Worker
USS Mln.                       ' Thousand        X                ffSs Min.      x
Agriculture                    311.4      46.2                  1300         85.3                239.5        54.1
Industry                       121.5     18.0                     75          4.9              1620.0       .366.2
Services    -                  241.8      35.8                   150          9.9              1612.0       364.4
Total/Average             674.7    100.0                   1525        100.0               424 4       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
K Mln..             X of GDP
1975/76k'   f975/76       1972/73-1974/75
Current Receipts                                     89.7         15.2            15.4
Current Expenditures                                 84.4         14.3             14.9
Current Surplus                                       5.3          0.9              0.5
Capital Expenditures                                 70.0         11.9              7.6
NOTE: All convereions to dollars In this Annex are at the av'ersge exchange rate prevailing during thle period covered.
1/ Total labor force defirned as male population between 15 and 60 years of age plus women actually i<p1oyed.
2/ TILe fiscal year ia from April to Narch; the (DP has 'r,en adjusted accordinely.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
_ 22
COUNTRY DATA - MALAWI
1/
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                             1972      1973     1974      1975     1976      1977 June
(Million K outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                             62.9     84.6    115.7    122.4    121.0          146.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector                      11.1     12.1      20.0     67.4      88.1         93.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector                     35.6     33.0      49.4     56.1      76.5         89.2
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as 2 of GDP                 16.9     21.1      23.8     21.4      18.7
General Price Index (1970-100)                   112.1    117.8    134.6    150.5    163.8
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                                3.6      5.1      14.3     11.8       8.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector                     136.2      9.0      65.3    237.0      30.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector                      1.4     -7.3      49.7     13.6      36.4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                              MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-1976)
US$ Hln     2
1973     1974     1975      1976          Tobacco                    59.1      42.0
(Millions US$)                     Tea                        24.9     17.7
Groundnuts                 8.7       6*2
Exports of Goods, NFS                122,1    151.7    179.4    202.6           Sugar                      14.7      10.4
Imports of Goods, NFS                167.6    214.1    284.0    246.4           All Other Co5modities    33.3        23.7
Resource Balance                     -45.5    -63.4   -104.6    -43.8               Total                 140.7    100.0
Interest Payments (net)              -3.6      -4.0     -5.4      -5.5        EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1976
Other Factor Payments (net)         j 4.6      18.8     17.3    -14.2
Net Current Transfers               |  7.1     .5.7      6.1       5.5                                              US$Mln
Balance of Current Account          -37.4    -41.9    -86.6    -58.0
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed       258.1
Direct Private Foreign Investment   11.4       14.9      9.9       8.2           Non-guaranteed Private Debt
Net MLT Borrowing                                                               Total Outstanding & Disbursed
Disbursements                     25.8      37.4     42.3     34.0
Amortizations                      2.4       2.6      2.9       3.3        NET DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1976
Subtotal                          23.4      34.8     39.4     30.7                                                 S
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed         6.2
Other Capital (net)                   25.3      1.6    -17.9    -30.1            Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Increase in Reserves (+)             33.3      16.4    -47.1    -38.3           Total Outstanding & Disbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)             66.7     81.8     65.5      26.2
Petroleum Imports                     11.2     17.9     22.9      26.1
Petroleum Re-exports                   2.1      1.0       -         -
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                               TBRD/IDA LENDING,.   (April 30, 1978)  (Mln US$)
1975   1976   Jan. -July 1977   July 1977                                                       IBRD    IDA
US$ = K           .6662  .9130        .9080          .8998
KI - US$         1.1545 1.0953       1.1013         1.1114                       Outstanding & Disbursed       1   3 4   82.6
Undisbursed                       22.8   39.4
Outstanding inct. Undisbursed   26. 2  122.0
1/ IMF, International Financial Statistics, June 1977
May 24, 1978



- 23 -
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of April 30, 1978)
Amount US$ Million
(less cancellations)
Bank
(incl.
Loan or                                                   Third
Credit No.   Year    Borrower          Purpose             Window)    IDA /1 Undisbursed
Eight Credits have been fully disbursed                                 58.0         -
282-MAI       1972   Republic of   Agriculture-
Malawi         Karonga                             6.6        0.4
S-17-MAI      1974       "           Transport engineering               2.0        0.4
and Services
523-MAI       1975       "           Second Highway                     10.0        4.1
550-MAI       1975       "          Agriculture-                         8.5        2.4
Lilongwe III
590-MAI       1976       "           Education II                       11.6        9.5
1286T-MAI    1976        "          Agriculture-              9.2         -         5.8
Karonga II
1388-MAI      1977       "/ESCOM    Third Power               9.0                   9.0
1387-T-MAI      i"                                            8.0                   8.0
691-MAI                  "                                               8.0        5.1
711-MAI       1977                  Water Supply                         7.0        7.0
758-MAI       1978                   Third Highway /1                  10.5       10.5
TOTAL                                  26.2      122.2       62.2
of which has been repaid                 -         0.2
Amount sold.                             -          -
of which Repaid
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA /2   26.2         122.0
TOTAL Undisbursed                      22.8       39.4       62.2
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of February 17, 1978)
Year              Borrower             Type of Investment   Loan   Equity   Total
1976   David Whitehead and Sons         Textile Mill          6.0       -        6.0
(Malawi) Ltd.
1977   Dwangwa Sugar Corporation Ltd.                         9.0                9.0
Total gross commitment                                15.0              15.0
Less: cancellations,
terminations re-
payments and sales                              -                  -
Net Held by IFC                                      15.0               15.0
Total undisbursed                                     11.0              11.0
C. Bank Projects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 282-MAI   Agriculture - Karonga Development Project; US$6.6 million
credit of January 26, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:
August 14, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Over 4 years (reduced from 5) the project would establish 1,000 ac
irrigated double cropped rice, 5,500 ac rainfed rice and improved cultivation
of maize, cotton and ground nuts on about 7,800 ac of existing smallholder
farms and livestock development. In addition it would provide for the con-
struction of a lake terminal, the provision of a barge, and extensions to a
district hospital and other health services.
Due to cost escalation the project period has been reduced from
five to four years. Only minor reductions of physical targets have occurred.
Completion of the irrigated double cropped rice scheme, reduced from 1,500 ac
to 1,000 ac was delayed due to exceptional flooding. Extension and research
are working satisfactorily. All necessary staff for the health component are
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
in post and bilharzia control is now a continuous program. Lake transporta-
tion has been generally improved, but the barge purchased under the credit
and put in operation in early 1976 proved defective and is currently being
repaired. In addition, IDA has agreed to use project funds to raise a jetty
at Chilumba harbour by 2 feet to avoid flooding caused by high tides. Design
work has been completed and tendering is now underway. The original closing
date has been postponed by one year to December 31, 1978 to allow sufficient
time to complete these works. A Project Completion Report is under preparation.
Credit No. 363-MAI Agriculture - Shire Valley Development Project Phase II;
US$10.5 million credit of March 28, 1973; Date of
Effectiveness: April 27, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978
The project is a continuation and expansion of the program completed
under Phase I and includes extension services, credit and marketing facili-
ties, a livestock component, health facilities, fisheries development, feeder
road construction, research on irrigated and rain-fed crops, land registration
and wildlife protection. The non-agricultural components of the project -
housing, water, health, roads and fisheries - have been implemented satisfac-
torily. A senior health officer for the health component assumed duties
recently and is now working on the operational health program. During 1976,
IDA assisted the Government in reviewing the cropping program in detail and
a revision of the production targets has been made. Due to a combination
of technical and economic factors, crop output is lower than envisaged at
appraisal. This problem has been examined in the context of the consolidation
phase which is the subject of this report.
Credit No. S-17-MAI   Transport Engineering and Services Project; US$2 million
credit of June 13, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 28, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project will help determine the infrastructural requirements
and provide technical assistance for the exploitation of the Viphya forest
resources.  Necessary transportation studies and the design of the required
transport facilities have been completed. Part of the credit proceeds that
are still available are being used to finance consulting services to update
prior studies and to assist in putting together a financial package for
the proposed mill.
Credit No. 523-MAI   Second Highway Project; US$10.0 million credit of
December 19, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: February 21,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project consists of (i) reconstruction to two-lane bituminous
paved standard of the Lilongwe-Kasungu road (about 73 miles), including
bypass around the Lilongwe industrial area and reconstruction of the Ligadzi
bridge; and (ii) a pilot program to improve the development and maintenance



- 26 -
ANNEX II
of district roads. Construction works for the main road, some 8 months
behind schedule, are about 80 percent completed and savings of approximately
US$3.0 million are currently expected for this project component. First
results from the pilot program for district roads improvement and maintenance
submitted to the Association in March 1977 indicate clearly that the program
has been successful and that it is feasible to extend it to other districts.
It is proposed that savings from the reconstruction component be used to
extend the pilot program to seven additional districts.
Credit No. 550-MAI   Agriculture - Lilongwe Land Development Program Phase III;
US$8.5 million credit of May 27, 1975; Date of Effective-
ness: August 12, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project will continue extension, farm credit and infrastructure
maintenance for previously established units and expand the program to cover
an additional 210,000 ac. The project will provide for the construction of
15 unit centers with associated investments; survey and demarcate about
200,000 ac; continue development of the Dzalanyama ranch; introduce poultry
and egg production and dairy development; expand and improve health facilities;
and carry out project evaluation and future project preparation. The project
infrastructure is now almost on schedule. Due to reduced input use as a
consequence of last season's high fertilizer prices and adverse weather con-
ditions, average maize and groundnut yields were lower in 1976 than in the
preceding year. However, overall production of high value crops such as
tobacco and groundnuts has increased considerably. The stall feeder and
poultry programs are expanding rapidly, contributing to sizeable income
increase of small farmers. Credit administration and loan repayments con-
tinue to be outstanding. A consolidation phase of the project is under
appraisal as part of the National Rural Development Program project.
Credit No. 590-MAI   Second Education Project; US$11.6 million credit of
November 24, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: February 24,
1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The project will provide prototype construction models of primary
schools, strengthen the program of rural education, establish a new primary
teacher training college and add facilities for the teaching of practical
subjects in selected secondary schools, with emphasis on facilities for
girls. The project has made a good start in the design stage due to the
early appointment of consultant architects. The Project Implementation Unit
is functioning well. Construction of civil works and procurement of furniture
and equipment is generally proceeding satisfactorily. Project cost is within
the appraisal estimates.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan No. 1286-T-MAI   Second Karonga Rural Development Project; US$9.2 million
loan of June 24, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: August 18,
1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The project, financed on Third Window terms, consists of the provi-
sion of seasonal and medium-term credit to farmers, extension service, market
complexes, health facilities, boreholes and other infrastructural facilities,
agricultural and hydrological research, preparatory investments for the
National Rural Development Program, and rehabilitation of berthing facilities
at Chipoka Lake terminal. A civil works contractor has been selected for the
reconstruction of Chipoka harbor, and the contract is expected to be signed
shortly. Although understaffing hampers implementation efficiency in some
parts of Chitipa district, the project progress is satisfactory.
Loans No. 1388-MAI    Third Power Project, US$25.0 million; Loans and Credit
and 1007-T-MAI         of April 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:  November 11,
Credit 691-MAI         1977; Closing Date:  December 31. 1981
The project will assist ESCOM in financing its investment program
to meet increased demand for power. The project consists of a rock-fill dam
on the Shire River at Nkula, a pressure cut and cover conduit, head-race
tunnel, penstock and tailrace outlet system, and a power house for five 18 MW
hydro units, two of which will be installed at this stage. The project also
provides for consulting services and training. Bid results have shown that
the project cost will be within the appraisal estimate. Civil works contracts
have been awarded since April 1977, and the constractors are now proceeding
with the preparation of construction works. The Government has recently
advertised for the positions of Chief Engineer and General Manager, who will
retire by 1978. The Bank is informally attempting to assist the Government
in locating suitable potential candidates.
Credit No. 711-MAJ   Blantyre Water Supply Project; US$7.0 million  Credit
of June 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: April 18, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project will assist the Blantyre Water Board in financing its
Phase V Development Program to increase the capacity of the supply facili-
ties at Walker's Ferry on the Shire River and bring the existing pipeline,
between the intake station and Blantyre, to its maximum capacity. In addi-
tion, the project will make additional improvements in the distribution
system in the Blantyre area, including service to squatter areas. It would
also provide for consulting services and training. The credit is not yet
effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 758-MAI   Third Highway Project:  US$10.5 million; Credit of
January 18, 1978; Terminal Date for Effectiveness:
June 15, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of (a) constructing the 53-mile Kasungu-Jenda
road to two-lane bituminous surfaced standard, (b) strengthening three short
sections of the Zomba-Lilongwe road and (c) providing consultant services
for the supervision of (a) and (b) and for the feasibility and engineering
studies of the Jenda-Mzuzu road. The terminal date for effectiveness has been
extended to June 15, 1978 because the Borrower needed more time to fully meet
the effectiveness requirements of its Agreement with the Opec Special Fund.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
MALAWI
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
1.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:                   7 months
(b)  Preparation by:                          RMEA and SVADP Staff
(c)  Initial discussion with IBRD:            November 1976
(d)  First Bank mission:                      January 1977
(e)  Appraisal mission departure:             August 1977
(f)  Negotiations:                            May 1978
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:           September 1978
2.   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
3.   Special Conditions of the Project
(a) The formal transfer of about 150 hectares of land at the
Makanga Research Station to the control and administration
of the project management for the seed multiplication farm
will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(para 37).
(b)  The preparation by the Government of a program satisfactory
to IDA to involve villagers in the maintenance of boreholes
surroundings is a condition of disbursements for boreholes
(para 43).
(c) Commencement of the national study of the organization,
operation and policies of existing irrigation schemes in
Malawi is a condition of disbursements for the surface-water
irrigation feasibility study for the Shire Valley (para 43).



- 30 -
ANNEX III
(d) The Ministry of Works and Supplies will maintain the main and
secondary roads completed under the project, and that district
roads will be maintained by the Project's Maintenance Unit
during the four-year project period and by its Ministry of
Works and Supplies or district councils thereafter (para. 45).
(e) The Government will finance the recurrent costs required
to continue the provision of agricultural services to
farmers and fishermen who have achieved the goals sought
for them under Phase II of the SVADP, from its budget
(para. 50).
(f) The Government will, in consultation with the Association,
prepare a program for the training of Malawians to replace
all the expatriates in the SVADP management team by 1982
(para. 53).



I3BRD 1334
34 30'                                                                     )/4 
MALAWI                                       0.
SHIRE VALLEY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COMMUNICATIONS
R.S I. A 'te
01.        E                   ,.   sDt
i. 't     =.  ]/    -f  
T0,0  -aP h.s b-ef popt... d hr th.
'0t                                    .    k                           1      w              the ooott to eathch t h,s atteohed
The d--.t,- ..ed _o,d the
%                                                                                                 b-d .- .h  -A th, .   .pe2''  - 
i,,<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d -tp. -t'^R   'h pW f h
+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d 8.k.,f Kffdw.i ,.y  
,<~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pg    . ;h5 1.9e.                            -1. tt
/''~~~ ~         ~~~~               ~        ~~                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -Y b-z' L 
Th''--                  t     '     '             
(3>                                           'oon                                                    es ;ft own oh <,tOts otap
^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d ho ,opp Oh ttepo of t
P'30Noject Boundary             -                                                                   LUW  16h 30W-
P-oject Road (Clr,ss l)                                                                      0 th leh sotot o
Project Roacd (ClasstE)               )                                                           t  hooodooe
Project Road (ClassIu)                  >n                             /j<t
Main Tarred Road Const uctecd 1975 -76                                                              d)  <c
Mazin Road Imrproved (Previous Project)        1      .,\                            < 
Other Existing Malin Road                       t_-                                   -    ;        <
Secondairy Road Improved (Prevtous Project)         >928 
Cther Secondary Roaid  -reg . 
Distr CT Road                                                                  -O
District Rocd to be Constructed                              I       '                      % 
D6str0ct Road  Constructed (Previous Project)
District Rood  Improved (Previous Project)                                                
PRalwoy Rnd Ssoh onch                                                                    / h
Rover Landing (Project)-(
Airstrip (Proa ect) Ipoe    reo   Pe
-      Telephone Exchange R                                      -                              '
A 7C         Private Sw,jicHboard                             j~'~                              
17 0        Petrol                                                                                                  17| 00 -   
SVAcDaP ( Projectd I        P        
Non - Cuseomory Land
Oistr ct Rood
Mcrsh  R      t b  C
- intrernotionadl Boundary
0   5     ~~~10     15     20      25
M LES
0rtrp (P5  20 2)5  3     35  40
KILOMETERS
34- 30C  3r Land
MARCH 1978






IBRD 13346
3  3                                                                  r4 A, 4
MALAWI                                                                      ' 
SHIRE VALLEY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, ADMARC, ,
AND EXTENSION PLANNING AREAS
rh, - h' ' hs ean e y { he
_35 )   . 'f t O W #Ws      Wnoid bkn -t staff encotuley for
The dennt-ona   used on the
VorLd bank an   nahiad a   n
iAA ) / M A, e ETr t                                                             fcctance n1 ouch b-nouna,e,
160         \thhoh                                                                                                cO ->G       \   1       
H.  'g          Mred                                                                                Wocv<%   \   
O      Si    Kane          i       hu    l\ebi                          ({#
l            \           Ma.dal.d                   Sa.ttd
Mdakwera
O"  $               NATIONAL Nnio
&;               ,...She.wer   -          (                Maseeejer e   t_          Q5
Project Boundary                 *   *   Neab            ko              Chitwtkeo
Plannting Arteasionanah~*                                                       gi~ 
New Extension Planning ArS aS
*     Extension Planning Area Headqtrs         D.Ii            Seergin
*     Major Research Stotion         )
O     Research Sub-stcation              .
*     Crop / Weather Observation Plot                              5a
O     Crop Observation Plot                  ik Pheketa
O     Soil Productivity Research Plot                                   PI SS;  (
A      Pesticide Resndue Study Site                      GAME
A     Forming Systems Observation Site                _   RESER         ATANO E         -
*      Shelter Belt Tree Observation                                     F     -- sT      /
A      New Market 1968 -73
A      Market Reconstructed 1973 - 78                                      R .
A      New Market 1973 -78
*      Major Depots
I     Sub Depot - Existing
--     Sub Depot -To be Constructed 1973 -78               1
*     Divisional Headquarters                              j    jiyJl
17 30'      -         Main Road                                                  ;
Minor Rood
-t--i-l-  Railway                                            N
River                                                     \     Z a       Menkhoakw)
Marsh
Non-Customary Land
-   International Boundary                                 D       5      10      15     20      25
MILES
D   5   10  15  20  25  30  35  40
KILOMETERS
34' 30'                                          35' CC'
MARCH 1978






IBRD 13347
34' 30'                                                                       h
\4 /~~~
t~~~~~~~~~~~t
MALAWI
SHIRE VALLEY                                        'Ns                i
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                            :--
HEALTH FACILITIES
ANDWBOREHOLES   A                                    iT:
Th,s map has bee. praptes by tfl
35  0                      W   35d  a7   Staff asch1ety for
r   \  H            t?                            /<   <,              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~the reportt to tWhich it ,ttaCttechd
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th. dst-m                                 ts-   -se  a-d the
b-utd5t- Mhew so thse naP
do ntt ,mp'  on thtt pars ol the
Wrt Ban ad teE efh,t- 50Y
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ogns <s the tegf status 5
asy t-mtogy say -nd-oa-t
AJET sSm                                                                           .-hzX  b -d--b
Chpm !                               X            S            \a  
1..5e                     9  u   tW                                                                            63k
LQ
PANK~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~N
Project Boundary           0)                 MW   I   g        PbO1        
A     Primary Health Center         &                 GAME
A     Heolth Sub-center                               G
*     Health Post                                                    MAT/N
J     Health Untf                                                     F EST
*     To be Upgraded
O     Proposed New Buildings
.    Boreholes, Project
*    Boreholes, Non - Project                                       Ch,d
Main RoodI
Minor Rood                                                                Nu"
17 -0         t 1-1I  Railway                                            i     C?EbonZ1700
River                                                   $      Makoko,l 
Marsh
Non - Customary Land                                                      MO
-   -   Internotionol Boundary
0      5      10      15     20     25
MILES
0         5   10  15  20  25  30  35  40
KILOMETERS
34' 3C                                          3co oCC
JANUARY 1978






IBRD 13348
3 4 "30'                                                       t      t        > 
MALAWI
SHIRE VALLEY                                                    -4
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
METEOROLOGY
Ti -p bed bea, p,e,d by the
Jr > 3 5'   3      3           X ) vorld Bank  stVWf e-CWeoiey to,
_/ i,Ga    v         a  )- 1000                            ,t   -on e ,e h. COffthe readers f
the. aped to whih it ;s attahd.
The denn,-at,ts -ed ad th.
ti   \  \J   Z   - o  -   '   Q  L                     { -t)                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~boundaries Shown on td,s map
t  <\   TchangniN- _  /   >                             3       >;->             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~do notrompit. on ire pen of the
VWorld Rek sodfto sib ete. ay
> X _ffi\ \\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rJ  1d9m-nel on the ledeal tetos of
m \   \  0   /  ,hA^JETt   |  \<                             f                               -h b-< ooep onceof sctdoondana
/'O             S.-              t \J
Prjc  \Boundeary_ \)  
1000  Isohyet            P ARK (r
760--~  Conjecturcal Isohyet ( in mm )                                             14/         
Matin Roaid                                                            *7       TtM            7i
MAinor Rorad                                                                  /J     Jll
Railwaly                                 |Chididi F f/                                      Neanje 
River                                                          j 20  WF
170CO0                    Morsh                                                    I   1 0              /ECjO ;                 70
Non -Customatry Land                                                              SAUack/  t) -/
-    -    Internationa l Bourndory 1'                                                       +          &
b, ~    ~      ZL                  S.  M kh.l..
890 Bonder76g
0       S       10       15      20      2,5
MILES
0    5  ~  10 I   20   25   30   35   40
KILOMcETERS
34' 3D                                                 O5 30
JANUARY 1978



