CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 823 MAI
Development Credit Agreement
(Shire Valley Agricultural Consolidation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 7, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 823 MAI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 7, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
(hereinafter calle4 the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MANR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources.
(b) "Project Executing Agencies" means with respect to
(i) Parts A through E, G and H of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, MANR's Shire Valley Agricultural
Development Program Management Team (hereinafter called the
Management Team), and (ii) Part F of the Project, the Borrower's
Ministry of Health.
(c) "Project Area" means with respect to (i) the national
irrigation study included in Part E of the Project, the     whole
of Malawi, and (ii) the remaining components of the Project,
the administrative districts of Chikwawa and Nsanje in the Lower
Shire Valley in the Southern part of Malawi.
(d) "main roads", "secondary roads", and "district roads"
mean the categories of roads to be improved or constructed under
Part G (1) of the Project, according to design standards for such
categories which have been established by the Borrower's Ministry
of Works and Supplies.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to ten million seven hundred thousand dollars ($10,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association,
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annua on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 1988, and ending
April 1, 2028, each installment to and including the installment
payable on April 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1Z) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
through the Project Executing Agencies, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall continue to maintain the Management
Team in such form, and with such powers and responsibilities, as
shall be satisfactory to the Association and the Borrower shall
assign the Management Team, acting under MANR, overall responsi-
bility for administering Parts A through E, G and H of the
Project.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon its obliga-
tions under paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall provide in its
annual budgets the following amounts to meet the recurrent costs
of the Project Executing Agencies required to provide continuing
services to farmers and fishermen to maintain levels of production
already attained under previous phases of the Shire Valley Agri-
cultural Development Program, namely: (i) not less than (A)
MKOO,000 in fiscal year 1978/1979, (B) MK438,000 in fiscal
year 1979/1980, (C) MK470,000 in fiscal year 1980/1981, (D)
MK496,000 in fiscal year 1981/1982; and (ii) such additional
amounts as shall be required to meet the said recurrent costs in
any of these years or in subsequent years.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants (including
consultants for Part E (1) of the Project) whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment (including terms
of reference) shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall increase the number of
qualified Technical Assistants employed on a permanent basis and
zssigned to the Management Team to 97 by May 1, 1979, 112 by
May 1, 1980, and 132 by May 1, 1981.
Section 3.04. All roads to be improved or constructed under
the Project shall be improved or constructed in accordance with
the standards established by the Borrower's Ministry of Works and
Supplies.


﻿-4-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause: (i) its Ministry of
Works and Supplies to maintain adequately all main roads con-
structed under the Project; and (ii) either the said Ministry or
the District Councils having jurisdiction, if such councils are
suitably equipped, to maintain adequately after completion of the
Project all secondary and district roads constructed under the
Project, all in accordance with appropriate engineering practices;
and the Borrower shall provide promptly as needed the funds,
facilities and services required for the purpose.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrowez shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall cause each of the Project
Executing Agencies to maintain records and procedures adequate to
record and monitor the progress of the Part or Parts of the
Project which the said Agency is carrying out (including its cost
and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to
disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Associa-
tion's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall cause each of the Project
Executing Agencies to furnish to the Association at regular
intervals all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning Part or Parts of the Project which the said
Agency is carrying out, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of


﻿-5-
the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such pro-
ceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than three months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish, or
cause to be prepared and furnished, to the Association a report,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfac-
tory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall adequately maintain, after
completion of the Project, all the services established under the
Project, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for this purpose.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall apply policies concerning
the recovery of costs incurred under the Project which shall be in
conformity with the cost recovery policies applied to agricultural
development projects under the Borrower's National Rural Develop-
ment Program.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower shall cause each of the Project Executing
Agencies to: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, if any, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have rea-
sonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial state-
ments of the responsible Project Executing Agency and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause each of the Project
Executing Agencies to take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the Associa-
tion for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall prepare and send to the
Association no later than March 31, 1979, a program for the
recruitment and training for purposes of the Project of suitably
qualified Malawi nationals in numbers adequate to assume, by the
completion of the Project, responsibilities currently being
undertaken by internationally recruited staff and, after consul-
tation with the Association, the Borrower shall carry out the
program as finally formulated.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall continue to employ on the
Management Team qualified staff in the following posts, namely,
Project Manager, Senior Agricultural Officer, Senior Research
Officer, Senior Veterinary Officer, Hydrogeologist, Evaluation
Officer and Financial Controller and any replacement of such staff
shall only be made after consultation with the Association.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, no later than October 31,
1978, appoint: (i) a qualified person as head of MANR's Planning
Unit for a period of up to two years from the date of this Agree-
ment; and (ii) a Malawian national, who shall have received
adequate training during this period, to replace such head.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, the transfer to the control and administration
of the Management Team of about 150 hectares of land at MANR's
Makanga Research Station for purposes of the irrigated seed
selection and multiplication farm to be established under Part A
(3) of the Project.
Section 5.02. The date October 10, 1978 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30049
Capital City
Lilongwe 3
Malawi
Cable address:
FINANCE
Lilongwe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By /s/ D.Y.J. Kalilangwe
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Vehicles and                1,410,000         100% of foreign
equipment                                    expenditures
if directly
imported and
85% if imported
end purchased
lucally
(2) Civil works                 1,660,000         85%
(3) Salaries and allow-           280,000         100% of foreign
ances for interna-                           expenditures
tionally recruited
staff
(4) Operating costs             4,910,000         85%
(vehicles, machinery,
personnel and mis-
cellaneous) excluding
the recurrent costs
mentioned in Section
3.01 (c) of this
Agreement
(5) Consultants                   400,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(6) Unallocated                 2,040,000
TOTAL      10,700,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (i) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $600,000 may be made in respect of Categories (3) and (4)
on account of payments made for such expenditures before that
date but after March 31, 1978; or (ii) payments made for expendi-
tures under Category (5) relating to the feasibility study
included in Part E (1) of the Projeit, until (A) the Association
has notified the Borrower that it is satisfied that the nation-
wide irrigation study included in Part E (1) of the Project has
been commenced with terms of reference satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation and with the assistance of consultants employed in accor-
dance with Section 3.02 of this Agreement; or (iii) payments under
Part E (2) of the Project until the Borrower shall have prepared a
program satisfactory to the Association to involve villagers in
regular maintenance of the areas surrounding the wells and pumps,
and has agreed to carry out the said program.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the


﻿- 11 -.
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms the third phase of the Borrower's Shire
Valley Agricultural Development Program (SVADP) and consists of
the carrying out in the Project Area of the following Parts:
Part A:   Agricultural Services
1.   Extension and farmer training programs including a
reorganization of the extension system, training of
village extension workers and establishment of five
additional Extension Planning Area Headquarters with
necessary staff housing, training and administrative
facilities.
2.   (1) Development and provision to the Management Team's
extension service of technological information by
the Management Team's Project Research Unit.
(2) Strengthening of HANR's Planning Unit.
3.   Establishment and operation of a 150 hectares irrigated
seed selection and multiplication farm at MANR's Makanga
Research Station with necessary buildings, vehicles,
equipment and administrative facilities.
4.   Provision of seasonal and medium term credit to small-
holder farmers and fishermen.
5.   Continuation of the land husbandry component included
in the second phase of the Shire Valley Agricultural
Development Program.
6.   Construction of an additional livestock market; enlarge-
ment of Khaombe holding ground; expansion of the ox
training program; completion of the Tsetse study
begun in the second phase of SVADP; and provision for
vaccination programs against foot and mouth disease and
trypasomaisis.
Part B:   Fisheries
Expansion of the Borrower's fisheries development program
including construction of infrastructure, extension of credit


﻿- 13 -
for purchase of canoes, training of fishermen, pollution monitor-
ing and construction of four new centralized boat landings and
about sixty smoking kilns.
Part C:   Forestry
Reforestation program including the establishment of a
Forestry Development Unit in the Management Team's Natural
Resources Division and the involvement of the local population
in the planting and care of forestry plantations.
Part D:   Wildlife
Support for the existing wildlife conservation activities
including boundary demarcation and construction of fences and
ditches; increase in overnight tourist accommodations and provi-
sion of staff housing, vehicles and necessary facilities.
Part E:   Hydrology and Water Supply
(1) Hydrology program including a study to investigate
hydrogeologic conditions, purchase of a trailer mounted
rotary drilling machine, establishment of an 8-station
sediment sampling network, staff housing and vehicles,
a nation-wide study to review existing irrigation
schemes in Malawi, their organization, financing and the
Borrower's policies relating thereto and a feasibility
study for the development of a surface water irrigation
project.
(2) Water supply program including construction of 40
additional boreholes with hand operated pumps, provi-
sion of a specific conductance meter and training of
village teams in maintenance of the grounds surrounding
bore holes and wells.
Part F:   Health
Continuation and expansion of the existing comprehensive
health program including the construction and operation of two
new maternity/dispensary sub-centers and four health posts and
expansion of the bilharzia control program including purchase of
molluscicides and construction of field latrines and village
bathing/laundry facilities.


﻿-14-
Part G:   Technical Services and Road Construction
(1) Upgrading and expansion of the system of secondary
and district roads servicing the main agricultural
areas, including the improvement of about 86 km of
secondary roads, about 32 km of district roads for crop
extraction, and construction of about 21 km of district
roads to boat landings; the provision of staff housing,
vehicles and other necessary equipment; and maintenance
of all roads improved or constructed under this Project.
(2) Provision of maintenance service for the repair and
upkeep of housing, vehicles and equipment provided for
the Project.
Part H:   Evaluation Unit
Expansion of the existing Project Evaluation Unit including
development of a common computer program for analysis of annual
farm survey data and collation and routine distribution of crop
marketing, credit recovery and unit data bank statistics.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1982.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Vehicles, machinery and equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publi-
cation of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
4.   Contracts for vehicles, equipment and machinery shall be
grouped so as to encourage international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procedures
1.   Vehicles, machinery and equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $50,000 shall be procured on the basis of


﻿- 16 -
competitive bidding after local advertising and in accordance with
local procurement procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Civil works may be procured in accordance with the procedures
mentioned in (1) above or may be carried out by force account.
3.   Boreholes may be constructed by force account.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before pre-
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of
the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modi-
fications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably
request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a state-
ment of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion
of any applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the
Borrower to the Association for its comments before the applicants
are notified of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall
make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the
said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association


﻿- 17 -
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the delivery to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


