Report No. PID7222
Project Name                     Indonesia-Corporate Restructuring Technical...
Assistance Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Private Sector Development
Project ID                       IDPE63732
Borrower                         Government of Indonesia
Guarantor                        Government of Indonesia
Implementing Agencies            Jakarta Initiative Task Force and Private-
Sector Debt Restructuring Team
Date Initial PID Prepared        September 20, 1998
Appraisal Date                   December 9, 1998
Board Date                       February 16, 1999
Background
The financial crisis that erupted in Asia in late 1997 had an immediate
contagion effect on the Indonesian economy. In turn, the virtual collapse of
the Indonesian financial system had a dramatic effect on the corporate sector.
The effect has manifested itself in several ways, including a collapse of
domestic demand, unavailability of domestic and foreign credit, restrictions
on imports and exports through lack of trade finance, a reduction in transport
options, unavailability of containers, reefers and internal air transport, and
the ballooning out of control of corporate debt denominated in foreign
currencies. This situation, when combined with the collapse of the Suharto
government and continuing political instability means that clear steps are
urgently required to stabilize the economy.
The Bank has been supporting the stabilization and structural reform
measures through structural adjustment loans, and a Technical Assistance Loan
to support financial sector restructuring measures. Recently, a loan aimed at
poverty alleviation was approved. The Corporate Restructuring Technical
Assistance Loan is now planned to support specific restructuring measures in
the corporate sector.
Objectives
The project is designed to assist the Indonesian Government in accelerating
corporate restructuring so as to resume growth in the private sector, restore
the ability of corporations to borrow and service their debts, and improve
corporate governance.. The overarching objective is to encourage growth,
encourage firms to regain access to financial markets and increase
employment. It is expected that corporate sector restructuring will complement
banking and financial sector reform.
Description of the Project
The proposed TA project would support implementation of the Government's
Corporate Restructuring Program with the emphasis on implementation of the
Jakarta Initiative. The goal of the project is to help the Government



facilitate and accelerate corporate restructuring The proposed project will
help the Government remove obstacles to the restructuring of corporations, by
providing expert skills, mediation services, training and equipment. In
addition, the project will support activities related to the strengthening
and promotion of the Government's corporate restructuring strategy.
The TA project would finance consulting services, training and dissemination
activities, and equipment.
PProject Components
Component I: Facilitation and Advisory Activities to Support Corporate
Restructuring
This component will support the Jakarta Initiative Task Force (JITF) by
financing consultants, including facilitators, accounting firms, lawyers,
investment bankers to help facilitate corporate restructuring deals. It will
include expert advisory services and will help debtors and creditors to
initiate negotiations, exchange information, and to reach agreements.
Component II: Streamlining and Strengthening Regulatory, Legal and
Administrative Processes for Corporate Restructuring
This component will support the implementation of a rapid and simplified
Government approval process to finalize restructuring deals. The Regulatory
Facilitation Group within the JITF will be able to act as a one-stop shop,
facilitating and accelerating regulatory approvals for restructuring deals.
Component III: Implementation Support and Capacity Building for JITF
The principal objective of this component is to ensure that the Jakarta
Initiative Task Force has the necessary equipment, training and support to
carry out activities related to the implementation of the Jakarta Initiative.
The infrastructure needs of the Jakarta Initiative Task Force include office
space and equipment, staff training, secretarial and administrative support,
and information management and reporting systems.
Component IV: Coordination of the Government's Corporate Restructuring
Strategy
This component will support the design, refinement and implementation of a
framework for the improvement of linkages between the JITF and other relevant
agencies/ministries, including Indonesian Bank Restructuing Agency (IBRA),
Indonesian Debt Restructuring Agency (INDRA), Bank Indonesia, and the newly
created Commercial Courts responsible for the administration of the Bankruptcy
Law. It will also support coordination activities, particularly those which
are linked to restructuring of the financial sector and banking reform. As
part of this coordination function, this component will support marketing of
the corporate restructuring process and of the government's integrated
approach, including but not limited to preparing and presenting "road shows"
to explain the process to creditors and debtors.
Component V: Implementation Support and Capacity Building for Corporate Debt
Restructuring, Bank Indonesia (BI), and INDRA
The principal objective of this component is to ensure that Bank Indonesia
(BI) and INDRA, two key actors in the corporate restructuring process, have
the necessary equipment, training and support to carry out activities related
to the implementation of the Jakarta Initiative. Among the activities to be
financed are the upgrading of the statistical capabilities and level of staff
training at BI and INDRA's computer systems, as well as provision of necessary
- 2-



office equipment, and staff training. The component will support additional
legal, tax, and policy analysis expected to be necessary as the corporate
restructuring progresses. Finally, funds will be made available under this
component to support technical studies related to the Jakarta Initiative
process.
Financing Plan.
Institution      Foreign Share (%)        Local   Share (%) Total      Share (%)
IBRD             21.0    100%             9.0     75%         30.0          90%
GOI              0.0     0%               3.1      25%        3.1           10%
Total            21.0    100%             12.1     100%       33.1          100%
All figures in (US$m)
Project Implementation.
The implementation period of the loan would cover approximately two years.
The executing agencies under the project would be the Office of the
Coordinating Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Jakarta
Initiative Task Force. Other agencies, including BI, the Ministry of Finance,
the Ministry of Justice, and other institutions would be called upon as
necessary to provide counterparts to consultants and cooperate in some of the
activities of the project. The Jakarta Initiative Task Force will establish a
project management unit headed by a Project Manager that would be responsible
for the day-to-day management of components I, II and III of the project,
engage local and international consultants, and procure equipment. Similarly,
the Private Sector Debt Restructuring Team will take responsibility for
implementing components IV and V. On the Bank's side, supervision would be
carried out by with specialized staff in units at headquarters in conjunction
with the Economics Unit under the Country Director based in Jakarta.
Coordination of technical assistance provided by the Bank, IMF, the Asian
Development Bank, and bilateral donors will be take place through a special
coordinating committee convened for that purpose (and the Bank's initiative)
in Jakarta.
Contact Point:                    The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Dr. Dale F. Gray
PSDCR
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington DC, 20433
Tel.: 202-458-7751
Fax: 202-522-3480
- 3 -



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 1, 1999.
- 4 -



