Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: 18978-IND
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$31.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
March 1, 1999
Private Sector Development Sector Unit
Indonesia Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 1999)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
Rp 1.00 = $0.0001
$1.00 = Rp 8,956
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          Asian Development Bank
BI           Bank Indonesia
BRAP         Banking Reform Assistance Project
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CEO          Chief Executive Officer
COO          Chief Operating Officer
CR           Corporate Restructuring
CRG          Corporate Restructuring Group
CRTAP        Corporate Restructuring Technical Assistance Project
EFF          Extended Fund Facility
GOI          Government of Indonesia
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IMF          International Monetary Fund
INDRA        Indonesian Debt Restructuring Agency
JI           Jakarta Initiative
JITF         Jakarta Initiative Task Force
MOF          Ministry of Finance
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
PRSL         Policy Reform Support Loan
PSD          Private Sector Development
PSDRT        Private Sector Debt Restructuring Team
RFG          Regulatory Facilitation Group
SME          Small and Medium Enterprise
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
TA           Technical Assistance
TOR          Terms of Reference
WB           World Bank
Vice President:      Mr. Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director:    Mr. Dennis de Tray, EACIF
Sector Manager:      Mr. Hoon Mok Chung, EASPS
Task Team Leader:    Mr. Dale F. Gray, PSDCR
Note: For the purposes of the PAD and other background docum-ents, the project's five components are
numbered I-V. These correspond with project components A-E (respectively) as found in the Legal
Agreement.



INDONESIA
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A: Project Development Objective .................................................................2
1. Project development objective: (see Annex  1) ...............................................................2
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex  1) .................................................................2
B: Strategic Context .................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see
Annex 1) ............................................................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy: ............................................................                        3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices: ................................5
C: Project Description Summary .................................................................6
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 4 for a detailed
cost breakdown) ............................................................6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project: ......................................6
3. Benefits and target population: ............................................................7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements: ............................................................7
D: Project Rationale ................................................................                                                        10
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection: ......................                           ...................... 10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies: ...... 10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design: ..................................1..................I 1
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership: ............................                             ...................... 11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project: ................................................................ 12
E: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 9) ...... 12
1. Economic: ................................................................                                                    12
2. Financial: ................................................................                                                   12
3. Technical: ................................................................                                                   12
4. Institutional: ................................................................                                               13
5. Social: .................................................................                                                     13
6. Environmental assessment: ................................................................                                    13
7. Participatory approach: ................................................................. 14
F: Sustainability and Risks ................................................................                                                14



- 11 -
1. Sustainability: ..................................................... 14
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex  1) ..........                                 ......... 14
3. Possible Controversial Aspects: ....................................................                                        16
G: Main Loan Conditions ..........................................................                                                        16
H: Readiness for Implementation ..........................................................                                                16
I: Compliance with Bank Policies ..........................................................                                               17
Annex  1: Project Design Summary ..........................................................                                               18
Annex 2: Project Description ..........................................................                                                  20
Annex 3: Legal and Regulatory Reform  ..........................................................                                         29
Annex 4: Estimated Project Costs ..........................................................                                               31
Annex 5: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                       ................................................ 32
Annex 6: Financial Summary .......................................................... 33
Annex 7: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ..........................................................   34
Annex 7, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ................                                   .................... 36
Annex 7, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements ....................................... .......... 37
Annex 7, Table B: Thresholds for Prior Review  ..........................................................  38
Annex  7, Table C: Procurement Plan (Preliminary) ......................................................... 39
Annex  7, Table D: Allocation of Loan Proceeds ..........................................................  40
Annex 8: Project Processing Budget and Schedule ......................... ................................. 41
Annex 9: Additional Documentation and Documents in the Project File ............. ....................... 42
Annex  10: Statement of Loans and Credits .......................................................... 53
Annex  11: Indonesia at a Glance .......................................................... 56



Indonesia
Corporate Restructuring Technical Assistance Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Private Sector Development Sector Unit
Date: March 1, 1999                                     Task Team Leader: Dale F. Gray
Country Director: Dennis de Tray                        Sector Manager: Hoon Mok Chung
Project ID: ID-PE-63732                                 Sector: Private Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan           Theme(s): Corporate Restructuring and PSD
Poverty Targeted Intervention:     [   Yes  [XI No
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan       [ ] Credit       [  Grant        [  Guarantee       [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$M): $31.5 million
Proposed terms:                          [    I Multicurrency        [X] Single currency
[    ] Standard Variable   [X] Fixed                []LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):              3
Years to maturity:                15
Commitment fee:                   0.75%
Front-end fee on Bank loan:       1.0%
Government                                                     3.5               -0.0                3.5
IBRD                                                         21.5                10.0               31.5
Total:                                                        25.0               10.0               35.0
Borrower: Republic of Indonesia
Responsible agency: Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry / Jakarta Initiative Task Force
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):
Annual                        20.5                        ;'.9                        3.1
Cumulative                        20.5                       28.4                        31.5
Project implementation period: April 1, 1999 to April 31, 2001
Expected effectiveness date:    April 15, 1999           Expected closing date: June 30, 2001
Implementing agency:         Ministry of Finance
Contact person:              Joseph F. P. Luhakay
Address:                     Gedung Utama Dept. Keuangan RI, 5th Floor, Suite 503, Jl. Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 Jakarta
10710-Indonesia
Tel: (62-21) 344-9230 ext. 3502  Fax: (62-21) 384-9623           E-mail:
OCS PAD Form: October 9,1998



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project is designed to assist the Indonesian Government in accelerating the process of
corporate restructuring. Corporate restructuring is crucial in helping Indonesia to resume private
sector-led growth, preserve and expand employment, and increase the standard of living for all
its citizens. The Government's corporate restructuring program will help restore the ability of
corporations to borrow and service their debts, and improve corporate governance. At the same
time, strengthening corporations will in turn help support ongoing reforms in the banking and
financial sectors.
The project is focused on the shorter-term corporate restructuring measures needed to address the
current crisis. It is one element of a larger package of external financial assistance to help the
Government implement a comprehensive policy program that has four key elements: first, a
strong macroeconomic framework designed to help Indonesia achieve an orderly adjustment to
the recent economic crisis; second, a strategy for corporate restructuring with an emphasis on
establishing a viable and growing private sector; third, a strategy to reform the financial sector
with special emphasis on the banking system; and fourth, a broad range of structural measures to
sharpen competitiveness and improve governance. The project is an important part of the Bank's
contribution to this effort, which includes adjustment lending (Policy Reform Support Loan-
PRSL I and proposed PRSL II), corporate and financial sector reform, and broader structural
measures designed to improve the competitiveness of the Indonesian economy. The proposed
technical assistance project is designed to complement the Extended Fund Facility (EFF)
arrangement approved by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) on August 25, 1998.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
*  Staffing and office setup.
*  Purchase relevant equipment and services for institutions such as INDRA, IBRA, Ministry of
Justice and Bank Indonesia, in connection with implementation of the Jakarta Initiative.
*  Design of a coherent framework and Action Plan for interinstitutional cooperation.
*  Completed report on impact and linkages between corporate restructuring and financial
sector reform.
*  Fully operational one-stop approval mechanism.
*  Several successfully processed restructurings.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see
Annex 1)
Document number: R97-152      Date of last CAS discussion: July 10, 1997
The turmoil in Indonesia over the past 18 months has led to a complete revision of the strategy
set out in the last CAS presented in July 1997. A CAS Progress Report will be presented to the
Board on March 9, 1999. A full CAS is expected to be presented after June 1999.



Page 3
Following the onset of the crisis in July 1997, the Bank has played an important role in pursuing
banking restructuring, corporate debt restructuring, international and domestic trade reform, and
increasing transparency in government operations, in an effort to restore market confidence.
New lending has been introduced for structural reform, poverty alleviation, and technical
assistance for banking and corporate restructuring. Non-lending services have been strengthened
to provide continuous policy advice and enhance monitoring of the social impacts of the crisis.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The main sector issue addressed by the project is the need to restructure corporations. The
Government's strategy is to facilitate corporate restructuring through an integrated program that
includes: (a) the Jakarta Initiative (JI); (b) enhanced bankruptcy legislation and strengthened
commercial courts; (c) foreign exchange support for restructured companies through the
Indonesian Debt Restructuring Agency (INDRA); and (d) strengthening the financial sector,
under reform programns supported by the Bank and IMF. The strategy outlined above will
contribute to improving corporate governance in a number of ways, including: (a) by increasing
transparency in financial reporting; and (b) through the introduction of new shareholders via
debt-equity swaps. Corporate restructuring will go hand in hand with bank restructuring, which
is being supported concurrently by the PRSL I, proposed PRSL II, Banking Reform Assistance
Project (BRAP) technical assistance (TA) loan and the current IMF program. The external debt
of corporations was $67 billion in November 1998. Domestic corporate debt was about $50
billion equivalent, of which two-thirds was Rupiah-denominated. (For further background
information on the crisis and its effects, see World Bank 1998 CEM "Indonesia in Crisis,"
Annex 2 (iv) on corporate debt levels and Annex 9).
(a) The Jakarta Initiative. The Jakarta Initiative-a framework to facilitate and encourage
voluntary corporate debt restructuring-was announced on September 9, 1998. Under the JI the
Government plays a limited but important role in moving forward the process of out-of-court
commercial negotiations between debtors and creditors. A Jakarta Initiative Task Force (JITF)
has been created to facilitate the restructuring process and provide critical support in key areas.
The JITF will have the ability to obtain and develop information on companies to be
restructured; help design restructuring action plans; facilitate negotiations and encourage
participation of creditors and debtors; speed regulatory approvals for restructurings in progress
and educate the global community on the Jakarta Principles for corporate restructuring (CR).
More broadly, the JI seeks "to speed corporate sector recovery in order to increase employment
opportunities and thereby reduce poverty, to assist in promoting the recovery of the banking and
financial sectors, and to generate tax revenue for the nation. .."' As part of its activities, the JITF
may also recommend that the Public Prosecutor file bankruptcy proceedings against particular
debtors. While the JITF will have significant ability to facilitate and compel negotiation, it will
not dictate the terms of any restructuring plan. The JI is off to an excellent start; as of February
1999, over 100 companies had applied to work through the JITF, with total external debt of over
The Jakarta Initiative, Efforts to Settle Private Debts through Negotiations between Debtors and Creditors.



Page 4
$14 billion. (See Annex 2 for additional details on JITF structure, staffing, reporting and Annex
9 for JIprogram principles).
(b) Bankruptcy Provisions. Indonesia's bankruptcy procedures have been strengthened to allow
for prepackaged bankruptcies and facilitate and encourage corporate debt restructuring. A
revised bankruptcy law, together with a special commercial court became effective on
August 20, 1998. Important changes from earlier practice include: (a) procedural rules to
improve speed and transparency; (b) the possibility of drawing receivers and administrators from
the private sector; (c) rules to protect a debtor's assets, including greater protection against
insider and fraudulent transactions prior to the adjudication of bankruptcy; (d) limited ability of
secured creditors to foreclose on collateral, thus making reorganizations prior to bankruptcy
more likely; and (e) acceleration of out-of-court settlements with the consent of only 50 percent
of unsecured creditors representing no less than two-thirds of outstanding claims. The focus on
effective bankruptcy regulations is crucial to the workout process, and thus, to the success of the
Jakarta Initiative.
There have been some difficulties in a few of the early bankruptcy cases, with some
disagreement over the types and conditions of certain liabilities, which led to questions over
whether or not companies were in fact in default. Without commenting on the appropriateness of
the rulings in each of the early cases, the Task Team recognizes that the Commercial Court is a
completely new entity and may take some time to reach the necessary level of expertise.
However, this early experience only points out the importance of providing TA to the Court, as is
envisioned under the Corporate Restructuring Technical Assistance Project (CRTAP).
The first bankruptcy case under the new law was heard in the Special Commercial Court on
September 14, 1998. More cases have been filed and will be heard shortly. Judges and other
Commercial Court personnel have received training in the new law and in bankruptcy procedures
(with assistance provided by the IMF) and further training in this area is proposed under the TA
loan. (See Annex 3 for details on legal reform and Annex 9 for additional details on Indonesia 's
revised Bankruptcy Law).
(c) The Frankfurt Agreements. On June 4, 1998, agreement was reached between debtors,
creditors and the Government of Indonesia (GOI) regarding interbank debts and trade finance
facilities in the Indonesian banking sector and a foreign exchange rate swap mechanism-
INDRA-was created to enable Indonesian debtors to repay their dollar-denominated debt in
Indonesian rupiah.
The restructuring of interbank debt under the Frankfurt Agreement has been very beneficial to
GOI in that $3 billion in short-term interbank debt between Indonesian banks and international
banks has been rescheduled over a tenure of one to four years. This compares favorably to the
recent Korean experience where interbank debt was rescheduled over a one- to three-year period.
For the international banks, arrears on the interbank debt has been cleared, and the $3 billion in
rescheduled interbank loans now bear the dollar guarantee of Bank Indonesia (BI).
In terns of restructuring trade credits made available to Indonesian banks by the international
banks, approximately $2.6 billion in trade credits were pledged to Bank Indonesia on a best-
efforts basis. The entire facility carries the guarantee of Bank Indonesia and has a tenure of one



Page 5
year. As with the interbank debt facility, outstanding arrears on trade credits have been settled by
Bank Indonesia as agreed.
(d) INDRA. INDRA (the Indonesian "Debt Restructuring Agency") is actually somewhat of a
misnomer in that rather than actually restructuring debt, INDRA provides foreign exchange
cover for the foreign currency debt of Indonesian corporations to foreign entities, and can only
be utilized after debtors and creditors have agreed on a rescheduling plan. As the JITF has only
recently become operational, it is not surprising that to date there has been limited utilization of
INDRA's facilities since they are only available to companies after restructuring agreements
have been reached. As the JI succeeds in its goals, INDRA is expected to be used more widely.
(See Annex 9for additional details on the functioning of INDRA.)
(e) Policy, Regulatory and Legal Reform. A program of actions to remove legal and regulatory
impediments to corporate restructuring started in early 1998 and has made significant progress to
date. This will be an ongoing process, especially in light of the country's moves to greater
democratic openness. The process will take many months to complete, because it involves
changes in laws as well as judicial and administrative procedures. Key issues being addressed
will include: (a) company law restrictions on the conversion of debt to equity; (b) tax
disincentives for restructuring, such as the failure to recognize mergers as tax-neutral events,
limits on loss carry-forward provisions, and the treatment of debt forgiveness and asset
revaluation; (c) simplification of time-consuming procedures for obtaining necessary approvals
and permits for corporate restructuring from the Investment Coordinating Board (BKPM), and
the Ministries of Justice, Industry and Trade, Finance and Manpower; and (d) the adoption of
measures that provide for the registration of security interests. The JI envisions the establishment
of a Regulatory Facilitation Group (RFG), the so-called one-stop shop, to facilitate and
coordinate approvals for the implementation of CR agreements. This will not only speed up
corporate restructuring, but will also have longer-term benefits through improved public
administration. (See Annexes 3 and 9 for additional details on planned legal reform and
training.)
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will address the need for rehabilitation of the corporate sector brought on by the
economic crisis of 1997-98, by supporting the implementation of the Government's overall
corporate restructuring strategy, including the JI announced by the Government in September
1998 and reform program as discussed with the Bank and IMF, and supported by the Bank's
PRSL I and proposed PRSL II, as well as the IMF's EFF.
The project is designed specifically to help GOI pursue a strategy for restructuring that is
voluntary and transparent and does not lead to high fiscal costs. The corporate restructuring
strategy has close links to the bank reform program. Stronger components will make stronger
baniks.



Page 6
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 4 for a detailed
cost breakdown)
Component                  Category          Cost     % of       Bank-       % of Bank
(uS$M)    total    financing       financing
(US$M)
Component I:                     Technical assistance    17.2     48.9      16.3            95.3
Facilitation and advisory activities to
support corporate restructuring
Component II:                    Technical assistance  5.1        14.4       4.7            94.0
Streamlining and strengthening regu-
latory, legal and administrative pro-
cesses for corporate restructuring
Component III:                   Physical and otier    3.0         8.5       2.2            73.0
Training, operations and capacity
building for JITF
Component IV:                    Technical assistance  2.5         7.3       2.3            92.0
Coordination between JITF and other
institutions, operations
Component V:                     Physical and other    3.6        10.4        2.9           80.1
Implementation Support, Operations,
and Capacity Building for Bank
Indonesia, INDRA, commercial courts
Loan Fee                                               0.3                    0.3          100.0
Contingencies                                          3.3         9.5       2.8           87.9
Total                                           35.0       100.0      31.5           90.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The new framework consisting of JI, INDRA and enhanced commercial courts is intended to
accelerate the process of corporate restructuring and the resolution of corporate debt problems.
The project will support the JITF, the Indonesian Private Sector Debt Restructuring Team
(PSDRT) and other agencies/ministries to promote policy reform and reduce obstacles to
corporate restructuring. A project preparation facility (PPF) of $2 million has been approved by
the Bank's Regional Vice President to assist in preparation.
Activities under the proposed project would support the process of reform in a number of key
areas, including:
* Institutional strengthening for corporate restructuring through support of the PSDRT and the
JITF. Technical assistance will help improve the coordination and policymaking function of
the Teams, as well as operations.



Page 7
* Improved coordination and institutional strengthening of corporate restructuring activities of
INDRA, BI and other agencies and ministries, such as the Ministry of Justice, that support
the process of corporate restructuring.
* Strengthening the judiciary, including the provision of training to the Supreme Court and
Commercial Court judges and personnel, in conjunction with the work of the Bank's legal
team and the IMF.
*  Accelerating legal reform to facilitate corporate restructuring improving competition policy
and competition law.
In addition, the project will have an indirect role in:
* strengthening corporate governance,
* enhancing the Government's overall public administration and statistical capacities, and
* addressing labor issues relating to corporate restructuring.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project is designed to assist the Indonesian Government in accelerating corporate
restructuring so as to resume private sector growth, restore the ability of corporations to borrow
and service their debts and improve corporate governance. The JI process will be open to all
companies that need it, though the response and resources allocated to each restructuring will, of
course, be different, based on a needs assessment of each individual case. It cannot be
overemphasized that successful CR will be necessary to increase employment, reduce poverty
and restore economic growth. Restructuring of the corporate sector will help Indonesia limit the
effects of the current crisis on the population as a whole and preserve jobs. Benefits to the
corporate sector will include much stronger corporations, improved market discipline, and more
effective procedures for corporate bankruptcy and foreclosure on collateral. Finally, the project's
support for the corporate restructuring process will place corporate governance on a sounder
footing. Improvements in the debt position of corporations will benefit banks by strengthening
the banks' loan portfolios.
4. Institutional and implementation-arrangements:
(a) Institutional Arrangements
The implementation period of the loan will cover approximately two years. The executing
agencies under the project will be the office of the Chairman of the Indonesian Private Sector
Debt Restructuring Team (PSDRT), the Jakarta Initiative Task Force (JITF), and the
Coordinating Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry, in close coordination with the Minister
of Finance. Bank Indonesia (BI), the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Ministry of Justice, the
Supreme Court and other institutions will be called upon as necessary to provide counterparts to
consultants and cooperate in relevant activities of the project. The Project Manager and Treasurer
for the Project will be from MOF. Two Project Inplementation Units (PIUs) will be established,
one for the work described in project components I, II, and III (relating to the work of the JITF),
the other for work on components IV and V (coordination, overall data management and support
to Bank Indonesia and INDRA), which will be housed in the office of the Chairman of the
PSDRT. Each PIU will be headed by a PIU Manager who will be responsible for the day-to-day



Page 8
management of the unit, and will be tasked with all procurement, disbursement, and project
accounting activities of the project. The PIU Manager for the JITF PIU should be a qualified
senior manager drawn from the corporate sector with experience in corporate restructuring. The
PSDRT PIU Manager should be a senior GOI civil servant, or retired civil servant, with a strong
government background and knowledge of BI and INDRA.
The Project Manager will sign all contracts as well as any requests for payments from the Special
Account. The Project Manager will not have responsibility for the day-to-day management of the
project or its implementation (which will be the responsibility of the PIU Managers as outlined
above), but will have responsibility for conducting a quarterly review of the PIU activities to
ensure compliance with agreed procedures and that commitments and expenditures are consistent
with the agreed Implementation Plan and Budget allocations.
On the Bank's side, supervision will be carried out by specialized staff in units from
headquarters in conjunction with support from the Country Director and his staff based in
Jakarta. Coordination of technical assistance provided by the Bank, IMF, the Asian Development
Bank (ADB), and bilateral donors will be provided through a special coordinating committee
convened for that purpose (at the Bank's initiative) in Jakarta. Overall quality assurance will be
provided by the Regional Private Sector Development (PSD) Director.
(b) Implementation Arrangements
The project has been designed in response to the most severe economic crisis Indonesia has
faced in several decades. Appropriate response dictates that services need to be provided on an
expedited basis. Notwithstanding this urgency, all parties agree on the need for the utmost
diligence and careful and prudent administration of all contracts connected with the project.
Given the complexity of the project and the need for special attention to financial management,
both PIUs will contain specialized staff acceptable to the Bank to concentrate in the areas of
procurement, disbursement and project accounting. Since these are new PIUs with staff who are
expected to have little or no experience with World Bank procedures, it is essential that the PIUs
receive training and assistance in developing systems and procedures.
Prior review will be required for all contracts for: (a) consulting firms of $100,000 equivalent or
more; (b) all individual consultants $50,000 equivalent or more; and (c) for all goods contracts.
Contracts below these limits would be subject to ex-post reviews during supervision. See Annex
7.
Disbursements based on statements of expenditures (SOEs) may be used for contracts for (a)
consulting firms below $100,000 equivalent; (b) individual consultants below $50,000 and (c)
goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each. Supporting documentation for
these SOEs will be maintained by the PITl for review by the Bank and independent auditors.
Contracts above these limits will be fully documented. Retroactive financing of up to $3 million
for expenditures will be permitted, with the request of the GOI and prior approval of the Bank.
In order to facilitate disbursements, GOI will establish a Special Account at Bank Indonesia on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The authorized allocation of the Special Account



Page 9
of $3 million, representing approximately four months' expenditures, will be limited to $1.5
million until the aggregate amount of withdrawals reaches $6 million.
The project accounts and financial reporting will be in accordance with standards acceptable to
the Bank. The PIUs will be responsible for maintaining records of expenditures incurred for
different components of the project, as well as for preparing monthly financial management
reports. The PIU managers, with assistance from project accountants and in coordination with
the Project Manager and Treasurer, will keep track of all financial transactions and be
responsible for project accounts. Project records and accounts will reflect the operations,
resources and expenditures for each project activity, in accordance with sound accounting
practices. A common set of policies and procedures will apply to both PUJs, and a consolidated
set of financial reports for the project will be prepared from the financial management system.
Qualified accountants acceptable to the Bank will be designated or recruited for the PIUs.
Based on the Guide for Review and Design of Accounting and Reporting Systems prepared by
the Bank's East Asia and Pacific Region, the control environment of implementing agencies will
be assessed, and an appropriate project accounting and reporting system developed according to
the requirements of OP/BP 10.02. The financial management system, including physical progress
and financial reporting, will be prepared and is expected to be ready for review and
implementation prior to loan effectiveness, along with a time-bound action plan agreed with the
GOI for compliance with the Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) to be
implemented by December 31, 1999. At that time it will be decided whether to base
disbursements on the Project Management Reports (PMR).
For expenditures incurred on the basis of SOEs, all records providing evidence for such
expenditures will be retained by the PIU or Project Management Unit until at least one year after
the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account is made, whichever is later. Project records
and accounts, including the Special Account and SOEs, will be audited annually in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles that are consistently applied by auditors acceptable to the
Bank, with terms of reference in accordance with Bank requirements, and will be submitted to
the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year. The Audit Manual for World Bank-
Financed Projects published in July 1998 by the East Asia and Pacific Region will be used as a
guideline.
Monitoring of project execution will be the responsibility of the two PIU Managers, who will, as
early as possible in the project, provide the Bank for its review and approval a work plan through
December 31, 1999, and subsequently with annual work plans to be presented to the Bank no
later than December 31 of each year, beginning with the plan for year 2000, which will be
presented on or before December 31, 1999. Monthly progress reviews of the project will be
presented to the Bank by the two PIU Managers each month, within 15 days of month end,
starting no later than with the report for the month of April 1999 (due May 15, 1999). The PIUs
will submit to the Bank for its approval quarterly project progress reports within one month after
the end of each quarter year, starting with a first report by June 30, 1999. Each implementing
agency will be responsible for preparing inputs to these reports. Additional quarterly evaluations
will be conducted jointly by the PIUs and the Bank to assess progress in meeting agreed
performance indicators and to identify additional implementation support as needed. The



Page 10
quarterly reports will include: (a) a retrospective assessment in meeting agreed outputs; and (b)
adjustments that are proposed for the annual work plans. A mid-tern review of the project will
be submitted by the PIU to the Bank by September 30, 1999 to assess progress in project
implementation and to set out measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the
project and achieving the project objectives.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The Government's proposed reform agenda adopts best practices from other parts of the world
on both corporate governance and corporate restructuring mechanisms. Delay in addressing the
current crisis was rejected as an approach, given the high daily cost of inaction in tenns of
employment, lost productive capacity, and output. Large-scale GOI intervention to assume the
debts of the major corporate debtors or mandatory across-the-board debt reductions were rejected
as options, since these would lead to distorted incentives, moral hazard and high fiscal costs. The
longer-term costs of such a short-term fix (for either approach) are considered unacceptably high.
Instead, the chosen approach establishes a framework that incorporates elements of best practices
from around the world. The chosen approach, designed to facilitate out-of-court restructuring,
provides appropriate incentives to all parties, maintains value of the corporations, and does not
lead to unacceptable fiscal costs.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Latest Supervision
(Form 590) Ratings (Bank-
Sector issue                             Project                        financed projects only)
Implemen-    Develop-
tation prog-  ment objec-
ress (IP)    tive (DO)
Bank-Financed
Banking system                 Financial Sector Development Project                 HU           HU
Banking Restructuring Assistance Project (BRAP)       U            S
Poverty alleviation            Urban Poverty Project                                N/A          N/A
Kecamatan Development Project                         S           HS
Structural adjustment         Policy Reform Support Loan                            N/A         N/A
Other development agencies
IMF: Macroeconomic stabilization   Extended Fund Facility
ADB: Financial system support for Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
SM Es,  audit  and  accountancy, SME facility for JI /a
corporate governance
Key bilaterals: Banking system  Technical assistance
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory).
/a ADB has proposed making available some $1 million in funding for work specifically with the facilitation of workouts for
SMEs. The CRTAP will coordinate closely with ADB to make best use of funds allocated for the important SME sector.



Page I 1
Elements of the overall reform program, such as the modernization of certain laws and
regulations, the enactment and implementation of a new and modem competition law, and
actions in the area of public and judicial administration will have an immediate impact on
promoting corporate restructuring. They are also closely related to the longer-term World Bank
agenda as dealt with in PRSL I and proposed PRSL II operations, as well as the IMF program.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank's experience in implementing corporate sector restructuring programs in other
countries, indicates that: (a) it is of critical importance that the executing agencies have the
authority to implement often difficult programs and reforms; (b) information reporting,
management and dissemination systems and information exchanged between debtors and
creditors-which will provide the information on which subsequent corporate restructuring
decisions are based-and must be of high quality; and (c) the rapid implementation of a sound
framework to accelerate corporate restructuring that will result in lower costs to the economy.
The Bank's experience in implementing the BRAP has shown the importance of political
commitment and early establishment of effective PIUs, followed by intensive supervision. These
lessons have been incorporated in the design of the project, and the early establishment of a PPF
and PHIRD grant to get a jump on implementation, the hiring of an experienced procurement
specialist and the early identification of suitable PIU staff are all indications that these lessons
are being taken into account.
While situations of economic crisis call for assistance to be timely and flexible, complex
technical assistance loans are hard to implement quickly. The project design has sought to learn
from other technical assistance projects in the region and minimize difficulties by: (a) focusing
the assistance efforts to establish two PIUs, one each for the JITF and PSDRT; (b) focusing on a
few large components; (c) ensuring top-quality procurement advice and assistance to aid
implementation and supervision and providing procurement qualified staff in each PIU; (d)
ensuring adequate resources for training and workshops to enhance understanding and build a
consensus on the important benefits from the JI process; and (e) coordinating with ADB and
using their assistance with the complex, and more micro issues related to small and medium
enterprise (SME) restructuring.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Indonesian Government at the highest levels has urged the Bank to initiate the proposed
project within a very short time frame. The Government has indicated its strong commitment to
the existing Bank/IMF program that is supported by the objectives of this loan. There is a clear
recognition on the part of GOI that prompt action through reforms in the corporate sector is
required to limit the adverse impact of the banking and currency crisis and return Indonesia to a
sustainable growth path. Evidence of Government commitment can be seen in recent actions
announcing and promoting the Jakarta Initiative, the requests for a PPF and PHRD grants,
(which are now in place) and the moves made to staff the JITF on an expedited basis. The
authorities have actively contributed to the preparation of the project, providing input at all
stages of the process. GOI and JITF representatives have prepared draft terms of reference
(TORs) for nearly all the positions to be filled relating to the project. Additional funding to cover
staff costs at INDRA has been agreed by GOI, which should dramatically improve the workings



Page 12
of that agency. Responses from government and quasi-governmental agencies connected with the
project-BI, INDRA, JITF and MOF to name a few-has been swift and detailed, as has been
seen in the preparation of very detailed budgets and work plans.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank can add value by: (a) making a contribution to the restoration of international
confidence in the Government's economic policies and in its program to support corporate
restructuring; (b) drawing on its international experience in design of sectoral reforms and
assistance strategies to accelerate corporate restructuring; (c) drawing on its experience in
combining macrostabilization and structural adjustment programs; (d) assisting in the
identification of international consultants with specialized expertise in the appropriate project
component areas; and (e) using its stature and position to facilitate discussions and accelerate
restructuring.
E: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 9)
1. Economic:
The project will support government initiatives aimed at facilitating corporate sector
restructuring, which will in turn help to limit the impact of the crisis on employment levels, keep
productive assets at work, and contribute to the restoration of the health of the Indonesian
financial system. Rough estimates for other countries indicate that delaying corporate
restructuring by two years can cost up to between 5 and 8 percent of gross domestic product
(GDP), based on World Bank (WB) staff estimates.
2. Financial:
The project will support the Indonesian Government's efforts to: (a) achieve stabilization of the
economy; (b) resolve the problem of insolvent and financially troubled corporations and banks;
(c) improve the legal framework for voluntary restructuring and collateralization of movables
and intangibles; and (d) improve the framework for allocation of investment resources.
Fiscal impact: The project is expected to assist in minimizing the fiscal cost of corporate and
bank restructuring while increasing the fiscal revenue base by providing support for: (a)
restructuring financially troubled enterprises; (b) reducing the risk that the crisis will spread to
additional enterprises and domestic creditors; and (c) enhancing the framework for corporate
finance. Corporate restructuring will be painful at first, but it will lay the necessary groundwork
for future growth.
3. Technical:
The project will ensure that the Government of Indonesia obtains access to Indonesian private
sector and international expertise of the highest quality.



Page 13
4. Institutional:
(a) Executing agencies:
The project is expected to help Indonesia build its institutional capacity through technical
assistance and studies. In particular, the project is targeted at improving the JITF's capacity to
assist companies with the workout process, helping them to improve competitiveness and
increase economic activity and employment. At the same time, the project will help improve
capacity data management capacity at BI and INDRA and will provide training to staff of those
agencies related to the restructuring process, and strengthen the overall legal, regulatory and
supervisory environment with a view to facilitating corporate restructuring. Other agencies, such
as the Ministry of Justice, Bank Indonesia and the Coordinating Ministry for Economics,
Finance, and Development Supervision, may also be called upon to assist with some elements of
the project, through a proposed Corporate Restructuring Advisory Committee. As the JITF is a
new agency, its capacity cannot be measured at this time. However, existing Bank projects have
worked successfully with BI, MOF and the Chairman of the PSDRT, and the individuals to head
up the JITF (the Chief Operating Officer-COO-and Chief Executive Officer-CEO) are both
individuals acceptable to the Bank with relevant experience and strong credentials.
(b) Project management:
Components I, II and III of the project will be coordinated by the Jakarta Initiative Task Force
through the PIU Manager (in this case, the JITF COO). Components IV and V will be
coordinated by the office of the Chairman of the PSDRT through its PIU Manager. In each case,
the respective PIU Managers will be responsible for managing the finances of the project,
including procurement and disbursement. Both teams will include procurement, disbursement
and project accounting staff acceptable to the Bank, adequate for the size of their operations.
(See Annex 2 (ii) for additional details.)
5. Social:
By helping to reduce the impact of the crisis on employment levels it is hoped that the project
will avert further deterioration of the living conditions of the majority of the population. In
addition, by assisting in the restoration of productive capacity and thus revitalizing economic
growth, it is expected that the project will help alleviate the recent dramatic worsening in poverty
indicators and reduce social tensions. Without question, however, in the shorter term some
layoffs will occur during the restructuring process, though these would be substantially fewer
than the number expected to be caused by any closing of companies.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category  [   A   []  B   [X] C
No direct environmental impact.



Page 14
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries:
Discussions were held on a selective basis with representatives from financial institutions,
corporations, government agencies, industrialists and bankers. The recent Jakarta Initiative
Conference, attended by over 1,200 stakeholders, gave further opportunities for affected parties
to learn about the Government's approach and discuss the JI. Part of the structure of the JITF-
the Advisory Committee-has been designed specifically to bring stakeholders into the wider JI
process and profit from the experiences of companies that have already begun restructuring.
b. Other affected groups:
The project has been designed to build consensus with other stakeholders (e.g., private market
participants) in the process of implementing the contemplated tasks. Due to the short time for
project preparation, extensive consultation could not be held with a wider range of stakeholders.
However, an effort is under way to address the labor issues related to corporate restructuring
including a planned workshop to be held at the Jakarta Resident Mission on this topic. The
forthcoming report from the Jakarta Initiative Conference will contain a detailed description of
the JI process, and will be widely distributed in both Indonesian and English, providing
information for the interested public.
c. Other key stakeholders:
See above (a).
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The technical assistance loan aims to improve the long-term growth of the Indonesian economy.
While the immediate focus of the assistance is to deal with the restructuring of troubled
corporations, the program includes a more fundamental set of measures designed to improve the
supervisory, legal and enabling environment to improve the long-term soundness and resiliency
of the corporate sector. Moreover, the proposed PRSL II will provide considerable follow-up to
help ensure that the policy framework is reformed in tandem with financial and other reforms.
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk               Risk Rating              Risk Minimization Measure
Adverse social impact of crisis lead-  H    Measures to relieve social tension through independent opera-
ing to increased economic and politi-       tions by various multilateral agencies as well as intensive
cal tension.                                dialogue on public expenditure allocation for the poor.
Wavering political commitment        H      Dialogue on the operation with highest levels of Government.



Page 15
Risk                Risk Rating               Risk Minimization Measure
Lack of willingness or adequate        S      * Provision of facilitation and advisory services by the JITP.
incentives for some debtors and               * Strengthening of capacity and credibility of bankruptcy
creditors to negotiate.                         system to ensure the risk of displacement of management or
liquidation is a viable threat.
* Acceleration of bank reform and macroeconomic stabiliza-
tion through other Bank and IMF operations.
* Strong public relations/outreach program.
Political interference in negotiations  S     Appropriate institutional design. Intense monitoring and
between debtors and creditors.                 supervision of activities.
Lack of interinstitutional cooperation  S     Appointment of JITF as the main authority coordinating
corporate sector reforms.
Lack of coordination among donors.     M      Centralization of assistance activities around the JITF who
will ensure that activities are duly coordinated.
Increased fiscal impact of corporate   M       Strong counterpart team for imnplementing the operation.
crisis because of delays in this
operation.
Weak institutional capacity and inade-  H      * Establishment and staffing of PIUs before project imple-
quate allocation of Government funds            mentation begins.
for operation of implementing PIUs.           * Early discussion with Government on its financial respon-
sibilities.
Liability of Government to rapidly     H       * Continued dialogue with highest levels of Government.
simplify the process for granting             * Intensive monitoring, supervision and support in the field.
regulatory approvals.
Liability to overcome legal and strate-  S     * Continued dialogue with highest levels of Government.
gic impediments to interinstitutional          * Intensive monitoring, support and supervision in the field.
coordination.
Lack of information, or information    M       * Planned mechanisms for gathering sufficient firm-level data
not available in a reasonable format.           and information on the relative willingness of debtors and
creditors to negotiate. Design of appropriate reporting and
disclosure mechanisms.
* Supporting efforts to overcome legal and strategic impedi-
ments to the release of infornation.
Inadequate supply of expert skills     M       Selection and use of domestic and international professionals
Inability to attract and manage        M       Selection and training of strong counterpart team. Advice
available professional skills.                from intemational experts on professional networks.
Overall Risk Rating                    H      Intense project supervision in the field. Planned informa-
tion and reporting systems from corporations to the JITF,
and from the latter to the Bank. Selection of competent
staff for JITF training; high-quality advisory services.
Risk Rating-H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 16
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Controversial aspects of the project include:
* possible conflicts of interest in resolution of troubled corporations and financial institutions,
domestic and foreign;
* the appearance of discrimination against certain groups of debtors, or against creditors or
classes of creditors; and,
* loss of public confidence in Government's approach and/or ability to resolve the crisis.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions:
Establishment of the Project Implementation Units under the JITF and PSDRT, including the
appointment of PIU Managers and adequate procurement, disbursement and project accounting
staff for each PIU; and Terms of Reference for the Project Manager acceptable to the Bank.
2. Other:
Covenants in the Loan Agreement are: (i) oversight to be maintained by the JITF and the Private
Sector Debt Team; (ii) provide annual work plans for Bank approval by December 31, in each
year; (iii) Project Implementation Units to be maintained under the JITF and the Private Sector
Debt Team.
H: Readiness for Implementation
The project has been prepared in close consultation with the JITF, the Chairman of the PSDRT,
MOF, the Coordinating Ministry for Economy, Finance and Industry, BI and INDRA. The
Government has already begun to implement the project, with the JITF and PSDRT taking
leadership.
[   1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready
for the start of project implementation.
[x] 1. b) Not applicable.
[  2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[x] 3. The Project Inplementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
[  4. The items lacking are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):



NPa 1?
1: Compilance with Bank Policies
[x] 1. This project complies with all applicable Banklpolicies.
[  2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
Task Tam                        rinipll PSD Oecialist, PSDCR
Ac og Sector Mana er: Aldo Balotti EA S
Acting Coun ry Director: Benjamin Fisher, EACIS



Page 18                                             ANNEX I
ANNEX 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Indonesia: Corporate Restructuring Technical Assistance Project
Sector-related CAS Goal: Assist the Indonesian Government in improving the structure,
resilience, soundness, and efficiency of the corporate sector.
Project Development Objectives: Assist the Government in implementing key elements of the
Jakarta Initiative that establishes voluntary framework for corporate and debt restructuring and
seeks to remove legal, regulatory and administrative obstacles to the approval of restructurings
agreed between debtors and creditors; strengthen the bankruptcy system and achieve legal
reforms to improve the competitiveness and efficiency of the corporate sector.
Outputs            Key Performance Indicators  Monitoring and Evaluation        Critical Assumptions
Substantial increase in the  * Initiation of negotiations  * Onsite support and      | Willingness and capacity of
number of completed corporate  between debtors and         monitoring.                  debtors and creditors to
restructuring agreements      creditors.                 * Quarterly progress reports.    negotiate.
between debtors and creditors. * Participation of facilitators   * Regular meetings with  * Adequate supply of expert
and advisors in negotiations.  facilitators and Jakarta  skills.
* Improved availability of    Initiative Task Force      * No political interference in
financial information.                                   negotiation processes.
* Improved understanding and                             * Adequate macroeconomic
use of best practices                                    and political stability.
corporate restructuring
techniques.
* Several successfully
completed negotiations.
Rapid and simplified govern-  * Review of relevant approval * Onsite support.         * Commitment of authorities to
ment approval process to      processes.                 * Quarterly progress reports.    expedite approval process.
finalize restructuring deals.    * Design of streamlined  * Regular meetings with     * Adequate capacity of all
approval process.           Regulatory Facilitation      parties to implement a
* Draft necessary legislation  Group.                      workable approval process.
and regulations.           * Regular meetings with
* Fully operational one-stop  Jakarta Initiative Task Force
approval mechanism.         Secretariat.
* Several successfully
processed restructurings.
Coherent institutional frame-   * Review of existing      * On site support.          * Commitment and capacity of
work to accelerate corporate  organizational linkages.    * Regular meetings with       key institutions, including
restructurings, while comple-  * Completed report on impact   Advisory Committee and    INDRA, IBRA, Ministry of
menting financial sector      and linkages between         representatives of other     Justice, the Supreme Court
reforms.                      corporate restructuring and  institutions.                and Bank Indonesia.
financial sector reform.   * Review reports on
* Design of a coherent        organizational linkages and
framework and Action Plan    interface with financial
for interinstitutional      sector reform.
cooperation.
* Implementation of Action
Plan.



Page 19                                                  ANNEX 1
Outputs              Key Performance Indicators  Monitoring and Evaluation              Critical Assumptions
Infrastructure to support corpo- * Identify infrastructure,    * Onsite support.              * Cooperation with relevant
rate restructuring activities.   administrative, secretarial,   * Quarterly progress reports.   institutions to identify needs
training and other require-    * Quarterly evaluation of       and follow Bank procedures
ments to make the Jakarta      additional needs.              for procurement and
Initiative Task Force fully                                    disbursement.
operational.
Purchase relevant equipment
and services for the Jakarta
Initiative Task Force.
Identify infrastructure,
administrative, secretarial,
training and other require-
ments for institutions such as
INDRA, IBRA, Ministry of
Justice, Supreme Court and
Commercial Court and Bank
Indonesia, in connection with
the implementation of the
Jakarta Initiative.
* Purchase relevant equipment
and services for institutions
such as INDRA, IBRA,
Ministry of Justice and Bank
Indonesia, in connection with
implementation of the
_________ ________ _____ _   zJakarta  Initiati .   _



Page 20                              ANNEX 2
ANNEX 2: PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Indonesia: Corporate Restructuring Technical Assistance Project
(I) PROJECT OVERVIEW
The overarching objective of the Government's reform program is to restore market confidence
by maintaining prudent macroeconomic policies, addressing weaknesses in the corporate and
financial sectors, and undertaking wide-ranging structural reforms to improve economic
efficiency and transparency. The Corporate Restructuring Technical Assistance Project (CRTAP)
is to support the Government's efforts to accelerate corporate restructuring. Corporate
indebtedness has dramatically increased in the last year. The depreciation of the Rupiah has
meant that virtually all corporations who were unhedged are finding it difficult, if not impossible,
to meet their external debt service obligations and are defaulting on their domestic loans. It is
estimated that about half of corporations are technically insolvent. Rough estimates of the cost
to the economy of not resolving the corporate debt problem could be up to $10 to 30 million per
day. The project will provide technical assistance for the Government's efforts to facilitate and
accelerate the process of corporate restructuring. For this reason, staff of the Bank, the
International Monetary Fund and the Asian Development Bank are jointly assisting the
Government in implementing the program by emphasizing different components.
The Bank's proposed Corporate Restructuring Technical Assistance Project will assist the
Government to:
- implement a program to facilitate and accelerate restructuring of corporations;
- strengthen and simplify regulatory aspects of corporate restructuring, identifying legal and
institutional obstacles for corporate and financial sector development;
i improve the capacity of JITF;
- coordinate the activities of governmental and quasi-governmental agencies working on
corporate restructuring (specifically, the activities of the Jakarta Initiative Task Force, the
Private Sector Debt Restructuring Team, INDRA and Bank Indonesia); and,
* build capacity within INDRA and BI to support the CR effort.
Project Component I: Facilitation and Advisory Activities to Support Corporate
Restructuring
Component I will finance consultants, including facilitators, accounting firms, lawyers and
investment bankers to help facilitate corporate restructuring deals. It will include expert advisory
services and will help debtors and creditors to initiate negotiations, exchange information, and to
reach agreements. More globally, the component will help Indonesia rebuild the productivity of
its corporate sector, identify and address labor and legal issues arising from the need for
restructuring, and help ensure longer-term, private sector-led growth and employment. The Bank
will provide support and monitoring as deemed appropriate through regular communication with
the Regulatory Facilitation Group and the Jakarta Initiative Task Force Secretariat. Commitment
of the authorities to expedite the approval process is critical to the successful completion of this
component. Success of this component assumes that there is sufficient willingness and capacity



Page 21                              ANNEX2
on the part of debtors and creditors to negotiate and reach satisfactory agreements. The supply of
expert skills is crucial to ensure that this component yields concrete results. In addition, a
broader framework of reasonable macroeconomic and political stability is necessary to make
restructuring deals feasible and attractive. (Total project spending on this component: $17.2
million.)
Project Component 1I: Streamlining and Strengthening Regulatory, Legal and
Administrative Processes for Corporate Restructuring
Component II seeks to support the implementation of a rapid and simplified government
approval process to finalize restructuring deals. As part of the component, a review of all
approval processes that are likely to arise following a restructuring proposal by a corporation will
be undertaken. A streamlined approval process will be designed so that the Regulatory
Facilitation Group within the Jakarta Initiative Task Force acts as an approval facilitation
mechanism, helping to expedite the closing of restructuring deals. This component will support
the drafting of any necessary legislation or regulation to empower the Regulatory Facilitation
Group to carry out its proposed functions, as well as the preparation of required operational and
informational guidelines. The component will also support other reasonable activities aimed at
ensuring that the proposed regulatory facilitation mechanism is made fully operational.
Continued support is expected to be required for the successful processing of approval requests.
The Bank will provide support and monitoring as deemed appropriate from time to time.
Monitoring will also take place through regular communication and meetings with the
Regulatory Facilitation Group and the Jakarta Initiative Task Force Secretariat. (Total project
spending on this component: $5.1 million.)
Project Component III: Implementation Support and Capacity Building for JITF
The principal objective of this component is to ensure that the Jakarta Initiative Task Force has
the necessary equipment, training and support to carry out activities related to the
implementation of the Jakarta Initiative. The component will finance the acquisition of such
goods and services in accordance with established Bank procurement procedures, based on the
infrastructure needs of the Jakarta Initiative Task Force in tenns of office space and equipment,
staff training, secretarial and administrative support, and information management and reporting
systems. This component will also support the development and maintenance of information and
reporting systems-including a computer-based information system for the storage and analysis
of corporate financial data-for all data to be collected by JITF. [See Annex 2 (iv) for more
detail on Information Systems arrangements.] The JITF PIU Manager will 'e expected to prepare
formal quarterly reports on the implementation of this component, following a format
satisfactory to the Bank, as well as providing such information on a monthly basis as is requested
by Bank staff based in Headquarters or in the Resident Mission. The Bank will provide support
and monitoring and will assist the authorities in the preparation of a quarterly evaluation of
additional needs. Satisfactory completion of this project assumes that relevant institutions will be
willing and able to offer their full cooperation in the identification of needs and can follow Bank
procurement and disbursement procedures. To assist in this effort, the JITF PIU will have a full-
time project administration staff, including specialists in procurement, disbursement and project
accounting, and will be supported by Bank procurement specialists in the Resident Mission and
from Headquarters. (Total project spending on this component: $3. 0 million.)



Page 22                              ANNEX 2
Project Component IV: Coordination between Jakarta Initiative Task Force and Other
Institutions
This component will support analysis and design of a framework for the improvement of
linkages between the JITF and other relevant agencies/ministries, including IBRA, INDRA,
Bank Indonesia, and the Ministry of Justice. It will support coordination activities, particularly
those which are linked to restructuring of the financial sector and banking reform. As part of this
coordination function, this component will support marketing of the CR process and of the
Government's integrated approach, including but not limited to preparing promotional materials
and presenting "road shows" to explain the process to creditors and debtors. Finally, this
component will support the coordination of infornation systems between BI, INDRA, the JITF
and other sources, so as to provide for the greatest possible amount of appropriate information
sharing between the institutions. The PIU supporting Component IV will work with all entities
related to the CR process to ensure that essential data needed for the JI process are available to
JITF as needed. The Bank will provide support and monitoring as deemed appropriate.
Monitoring will take place through regular discussions and/or meetings with the PIU Manager
for this component, the coordinator of the Regulatory Facilitation Group and the Jakarta
Initiative Task Force Secretariat. Commitment of the authorities to expedite the approval process
is critical to the successful completion of this component, and will be greatly facilitated by the
fact that both PIUs report to the Chairman of the Private Sector Debt Restructuring Team. GOI
has also shown its commitment by ensuring for the provision of adequate staffing for the PIU
managing this component as part of its contribution to the project. Finally, this component will
provide training for nonattomey personnel working with the Commercial Court, which will be
offered by consultants hired through the PSDRT PIU. (Total project spending on this
component: $2.5 million.)
Project Component V: Implementation Support and Capacity Building BI, INDRA
The principal objective of this component is to ensure that Bank Indonesia and INDRA, two key
elements in the CR process, have the necessary equipment, training and support to carry out
activities related to the implementation of the Jakarta Initiative. Specific activities will be
undertaken to upgrade the statistical capabilities and level of staff training at BI and INDRA.
Support from this component will also be used to upgrade computer systems at both
organizations, provide necessary office equipment, and provide for advanced staff training
relevant to the CR process. Additional funds will be made available for additional legal and tax
consulting, which is expected to be necessary as the CR process progresses. (These activities,
which fall under preexisting contracts to GOI, are expected to be financed as part of the GOI
contribution to the project). Subsequently, this component will finance the acquisition of the
goods and services outlined above in accordance with established Bank procurement procedures.
It will also support their ongoing operation and use on an incremental basis as may be necessary
for undertaking activities related to the Jakarta Initiative. Lastly, funds will be made available
under this component to support technical studies related to the Jakarta Initiative process. (Total
project spending on this component: $3.6 million.)
(Il) PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND PIUS



Page 23                             ANNEX 2
To achieve the goals outlined above, the project will be administered through two Project
Implementation Units. The first PIU will have primary responsibility for the implementation of
individual workout deals under the Jakarta Initiative and for the establishment of the regulatory
facilitation mechanism (also known as the "one-stop shop"). It will be established within the
Jakarta Initiative Task Force, headed by the JITF COO, and will be responsible for components
I, II and HI outlined below. The second PIll, which will be housed in the office of the Chairman
of the Indonesia Private Sector Debt Restructuring Team, will have responsibility for
coordination activities (project component IV), non-JITF data management and for support of
BI, INDRA, and the Commercial Court (project component V).
A separate Project Management Unit (PMU) within the MOF, composed of a Project Manger
and a Treasurer, will have signing authority under the project for contracts and for requests for
payment from the Special Account or disbursements from the Loan account. The PMU will sign
contracts and execute requests for payment in keeping with the Implementation Plans agreed
between the PIUs and the World Bank. While it will periodically review the progress of the
project, the PMU will not have day-to-day involvement in the workings of the PIUs, and will not
have the authority to deny requests for payment which are in compliance with the agreed
Implementation Plans.
Each PIU will, inter alia, carry out needed project accounting and prepare and send payment
requests to the PMU, advise the technical implementing agencies in procurement matters
consistent with Bank guidelines, and compile project progress reports. In addition to consulting
services for support of corporate restructuring, funding under the Loan will be used to cover
expenses for consultant services and training related to PIU capacity building, including; (a) PIU
staff training in procurement, disbursement, and other technical matters and (b) consultant
services regarding financial accounting under World Bank projects. The PSDRT PIU will engage
the services of independent auditors which will audit both PIUs, the PMU, and the Special
Account. The decision to create two PIUs rather than one is based on a desire to maintain a
separation between the JITF, with its deal-making focus and private sector orientation, and the
coordinating/capacity building activities of components IV and V, which deal primarily with
government agencies.
(III) STAFFING, REPORTING AND RESPONSIBILITIEs-JITF
Overall Structure of JITF
The Jakarta Initiative Task Force (JITF) falls under the authority of MOF. It will report directly
to the Chairman of the Indonesian PSDRT and indirectly to the Coordinating Minister for
Economy, Finance and Industry, both of whom report directly to the President and will
coordinate with each other. The Coordinating Minister will have primary responsibility for
policy formulation, while the Chairman of PSDRT will concentrate on coordinating with other
entities (INDRA, IBRA, BI etc.) that relate to JITF's work. JITF will be headed by a Chief
Executive Officer who reports directly to the PSDRT Chairman and to the Coordinating Minister
through MOF. Day-to-day operations will be led by a Chief Operating Officer, who will report
directly to the CEO, though in practice will also often attend meetings with the PSDRT
Chairman. All activities connected to the JITF will report to the Chairman of the PSDRT with



Page 24                              ANNEX 2
the exception of the Regulatory Facilitation Group, which will report directly to the Coordinating
Minister.
The JITF will have four functional areas, whose staff and duties are explained below.
(1) Corporate Restructuring Group-Workout Facilitation: The Corporate Restructuring
Group (CRG) will have direct responsibility for preparing and facilitating the individual workout
deals, working closely with legal advisors and consultants to the JITF. As part of its activities,
the CRG will work with companies to help develop sound business plans including longer-term
corporate strategic plans and plans for restructuring.
The Group will be managed by the COO and supported by the JITF Secretariat. The management
of individual cases will be coordinated by a Docket Manager, who will work with the JITF's
staff of Senior Case Managers and Case Managers. The Docket Manager will be responsible for
maintaining a day-to-day account of the progress of all restructurings. Case Managers will work
with creditors and debtors to identify cases ready for resolution and the resources (facilitators,
technical specialists) necessary for each individual workout. All the Case Managers will have
relevant restructuring and financial analysis experience, and will be capable of holding meetings
to collect data, attend negotiation sessions, identify needs for facilitation and coordinate the
selection of facilitators. Recommendations developed by the Case Managers will be presented to
the COO, who will make the final decision for the selection of the appropriate facilitator or
specialist, in consultation with the Strategic Legal Advisor working with the JITF. All contracts
are approved by the CEO, but will be signed by the Project Manager in the PIU.
A total complement of 12 Case Managers and 4 Senior Case Managers is expected when the
Unit's staff is at its highest, though the timing and number of Case Managers hired will be
directly determined by the number of restructuring cases initiated under the JITF. The identified
Case Manager candidates are not currently members of the civil service, and GOI will hire them
as professional consultants (financed under the project). Each Case Manager will have
responsibility for up to 10-15 cases at any given time.
As appropriate, based on the flow of restructurings, the Group will hire deal facilitators, sectoral
experts in a variety of fields, and nonsectoral experts (e.g., legal, financial, accounting and
taxation, investment banking, logistics). Their day-to-day work will be managed and coordinated
by the Case Managers. All specialized staff are to be hired on short-term contracts to work on
specific deals or groups of deals. Given the large number of such contracts that will need to be
signed, every effort will be made to standardize both the process and the TORs for each class of
individual consultants. While the PIU maintains the right to sign all contracts, the CEO and COO
will have final responsibility for approval of all consultant work plans.
The activities of this Group will be financed under Project Component I.
(2) Regulatory Facilitation-Acceleration of Regulatory Approvals (the "One-Stop Shop"):
The Regulatory Facilitation Group (RFG) will work on developing the mechanisms for
expediting regulatory approval for individual restructuring deals.
The Group's activities will be organized by an external consultant with relevant workout
experience, working with a local counterpart on the JITF staff, the Regulatory Facilitation



Page 25                                ANNEX 2
Coordinator. Together they will work with the legal advisor to JITF on all RFG matters. With the
assistance of the RF Coordinator and as needed, the support of the Coordinating Minister, the
consultant will coordinate the activities of facilitation counterparts in relevant ministries/agencies,
(including Finance, Industry, Justice and BI). The ministry counterparts will be at least Director-
level personnel, members of the civil service, and they will participate in the work of the JITF as
part of their regular work programs. The advisor and the ministry counterparts will have
responsibility for resolving any institutional, administrative or regulatory issues related to
approvals necessary for individual deals (or securing exceptions if necessary). Counterparts in
the core ministries have already been identified, and will be appointed by the Coordinating
Minister once the project is under way. While the consultant derives his authority from the
Coordinating Minister, he will report to the JITF CEO and will work effectively with the COO.
This candidate has been identified, and is in place, funded by the US Government.
The activities of this Group will be financed under Project Component II.
(3) JITF Executive Secretariat-Administrative Support: The JITF Executive Secretariat
will function as one of the project's two PTU units. Its responsibilities will be primarily
administrative.
The Secretariat will be headed by an Office Manager who will oversee a staff of four
professionals, three secretaries and other administrative staff. Reporting to the Office Manager
will be: financial management (project accounting, disbursement and procurement specialists,
three staff), database management (one staff member working as liaison with the Bank and
companies, with routine activities outsourced to private firms), and secretarial staff of three.
Other duties for which the Office Manager will have responsibility (website maintenance,
translation, graphics, etc.) will also be outsourced. A total direct hire staff of just over 10 persons
is envisioned, most of whom (if not all) will come from the private sector. Candidates for the
Office Manger position and others in this unit have been identified. The Office Manager
candidate is already working on the JITF and is familiar with all aspects of the Initiative. All
Executive Secretariat personnel will report directly to the Office Manager, who will in turn
report to the COO. The JITF Secretariat will support all aspects of components I, II and III, and
will assist in the coordination efforts under component IV.
The activities of this Group will be financed under Project Component III.
(4) Advisory Committee-Technical and Public Relations Support: An Advisory Committee
of prominent private sector individuals has been formed to support the work of the Task Force,
providing technical and public relations support.
The Committee has three primary functions: (1) the Committee as a whole will advise the JITF
on regulatory issues and constraints that are identified in the course of the restructuring process;
(2) individual Committee members may be called upon to serve as part of "Strategic Groups"
within the Corporate Restructuring Group, providing the benefit of their experience dealing with
similar issues in their sector(s); and (3) the Committee will play an important role in public
relations, helping to bring credibility and build public support for the JITF.



Page 26                              ANNEX 2
Committee members will not be paid for their participation. The Advisory Committee is
expected to meet on an ad hoc basis, with members providing service to the "Strategic Groups"
as requested by JITF management (whenever possible). The mission has raised the issue of
potential conflict of interest that might be faced by Advisory Committee members whose own
companies/industries are facing restructuring. This consideration will be addressed in the final
design of the TOR for Committee members. Lessons learned by the Advisory Committees will
be collected and disseminated by the Secretariat for use in subsequent restructuring cases. The
Advisory Committee will be coordinated and managed by the COO, and will receive any
necessary logistical support from the JITF Secretariat. The public relations function of the
Advisory Committee will also be coordinated through the JITF Secretariat.
Participation in the Advisory Group will be voluntary, and as such, will entail no cost to the
project.
PROJECT PIU AND ADMINISTRATION STRUCTURE
Commercial                      Private Sector Debt
CourtRetutrnTan
i                               PSDRT) \I Responsibiiesinclude:
Jakarta o  entiat   A a
_                     ~~~~~~~Task Force    
(JITF)l
Bank Indonesia
*  support forlegal refor andtrainingto commercial courtajudges, courtpersonnel



Page 27                              ANNEX 2
JITF PIU Responsibilities include:
* facilitation of the workout process, assistance with business plans
* establishment of the one-stop shop for facilitation of regulatory approvals needed for
restructuring deals
* support for capacity building, statistical improvements at JITF
(iv) FINANCIAL DATA INFORMATION SYSTEMS
Jakarta Initiative and INDRA: Information Requirements
*  Primary Objectives:
1. Analysis of the debt servicing capacity of Indonesian corporations and sectors
2. Analysis of the vulnerability of corporations and economic sectors to changes in
exchange rates, interest rates, demand shocks, etc.
3. Analysis of possible scenarios for corporate restructuring and best practices
4. Early warnings
*  Additional benefits of the proposed Information System:
Ability to analyze a wide range of economic policies, perform economic modeling
*  Data required:
Standard corporate financial data, typical for audited financial reports (not only data on
outstanding debts): balance sheet, income and cash flow statements, structure (currency
composition, maturity, etc.) of liabilities and derivatives, structure of sales and costs.
Descriptive data on best practices will also be needed.
-  Current availability of such data for computerized processing:
1. Bank Indonesia: only partial data on corporate debts
2. Directorate General of Taxation: annual financial data based on specific tax reporting
requirements
At present, neither BAPEPAM (Jakarta Stock Exchange), nor JITF have any of the data they
will require in the necessary computerized form.
Total corporate debt was nearly $118 billion in November 1998. Only 8 percent of Indonesia's
total external debt was in the financial sector, while 47 percent was owed by the corporate sector
(Table 1). Of this 47 percent, about 22 percent is owed by domestic corporations. This
concentration of external debt in the corporate sector is significantly higher than in Thailand,
Korea or Malaysia, where nonfinancial corporate sectors were responsible for only 8 to 30
percent of external debt. Second, 57 percent of Indonesia's corporate sector debt is owed
externally and 43 percent domestically, assuming the November 1998 exchange rate of
Rp 7,300/$1.0. But it is important to note that some of the domestic corporate debt is
denominated in foreign currency (predominantly US dollars). Thus, as of November 1998, three-
quarters of corporate sector debt was denominated in US dollars and the remainder in Rupiah.



Page 28                                       ANNEX 2
TABLE 1. BREAKDOWN OF INDONESIA'S DEBT PROBLEM
November 1998          Share of         Share of Corporate
US$ million     External Debt (%)      Sector Debt (%)
TOTAL EXTERNAL DEBT                        143,093               100
Public Sector                           71,027                50
Private sector                          72,066                50
Government                                61,069                43
Financial sector                          10,996                 8
State-owned banks                        4,539                 3
Foreign banks                             633                  0
JV banks                                 3,865                 3
Domestic private banks                   1,959                 1
Corporate sector                          67,064                47                     57
State-owned corporations                 5,419                 4                      5
Private foreign & JV corporations       31,207                22                     26
Private domestic corporations           30,438                21                     26
DOMESTIC CORPORATE DEBT /a                  50,903                                       43
Rupiah denominated                        30,375
State-owned enterprises                  1,401                                        1
Private enterprises                     28,973                                       25
US$ denominated                           20,529
State-owned enterprises                   478                                         0
Private enterprises                     20,051                                       17
TOTAL CORPORATE DEBT                       117,967                                      100
In rupiah                                 30,375                                       26
In foreign currency                       87,592                                       74
/a Converted to US dollars at the BI November exchange rate of Rp 7,300/$ 1.
Notes: Domestic corporate debt figures only include bank debt, and may underestimate debt, particularly for state-
owned enterprises, which raised funds in the domestic bond market Estimates are less than $2 billion.
Source: Bank Indonesia and World Bank estimates.
TABLE 2. CONCENTRATION OF EXTERNAL DEBT, NONFINANCIAL CORPORATIONS, JUNE 1998
Total number of external loans                                                                5,364
Total number of companies borrowing under those loans                                         2,244
Total principle outstanding (US$ million)                                                    67,090
For top 10 debtors (US$ million)                                                              7,589
Source: Bank Indonesia, International Department.



Page 29                              ANNEX 3
ANNEX 3: LEGAL AND REGULATORY REFORM
Indonesia: Corporate Restructuring Technical Assistance Project
In order to facilitate the restructuring of corporate debt in Indonesia, GOI will need to adopt
certain key legal, regulatory and administrative reforms that would serve to remove impediments
to the restructuring process, increase the incentives for restructuring, and in the long term
improve corporate governance. There are two areas of immediate need for legal reforms to
support the launch of the Jakarta Initiative. The first concerns the ability of debtor companies to
agree with their creditors to issue equity in exchange for forgone debt. The Company Law at
present can be interpreted as severely limiting the scope for debt-equity swaps. In particular, it is
doubtful whether pure holding companies are able to enter into swaps. Creditors who are also
holders of debt instruments may be prohibited from converting that debt. To overcome these
problems, a regulation will be issued to permit debt-equity swaps in the context of corporate
restructuring plans. A first draft of the regulation has been seen by Bank and IMF staff and some
comments have been provided to the Ministry of Justice, and GOI officials are well aware of the
importance of a quick resolution of the matter. The second priority is a series of changes to
income tax laws, in order to ensure that restructurings are tax-neutral events. Those changes are
expected to focus on: (a) the preservation of tax loss carry-forwards following a reorganization
or merger, so that the resultant entity is able to offset past losses against future taxable profits;
(b) the favorable treatment of debt cancellations so that there is no change in the tax base of
either debtor or creditor; and (c) the exemption of stock issued under a debt-equity swap from
treatment as a dividend.
GOI has committed to submitting to Parliament a new arbitration law consistent with
international standards and a law on competition policy. The draft arbitration law is being
worked on within the Ministry of Justice with assistance from USAID, and a competition law is
already in the Parliament. As a matter of interest, this appears to be one of the first instances of a
law that has been initiated by Parliament rather than submitted to Parliament by the Executive.
Another important area of reform is to create a system for providing effective security to
creditors over inventory and receivables of the debtor. The importance of this topic comes from
the need to encourage lenders to provide Rupiah working capital facilities to companies that are
undergoing restructuring. GOI recognizes that a new secured transactions law is required and
that a registry system must be introduced, and the February IMF Letter of Intent in fact provides
that the GOI will submit to Parliament by March 31, 1999, legislation for security interests that
will give certainty concerning the priority rights of lenders, including lenders providing working
capital to restructuring enterprises. Both USAID and ADB have been giving GOI technical
advice in this area.
As the 1997 arnendmnents to the Bankruptcy Law took the form of a Government Regulation in
lieu of law, the Parliament will require the new law be introduced in Parliament by the first
anniversary of the effective date of the Indonesian Bankruptcy Law (IBL), namely, by August
1999. A drafting committee has been formed, and the objective of the committee is to create an



Page 30                              ANNEX 3
indigenous Indonesian Insolvency Law, not based on Dutch Law, but which may be conceptually
similar.
The Indonesian Courts divide into four primary court groups: General, Administrative, Religious
and Military. The newly created Commercial Court constitutes a subdivision within the General
Courts. The Commercial Court is invested with the jurisdiction to hear bankruptcy cases under
the Indonesian Bankruptcy Law and other commercial matters. To date, the Commercial Court
has been established and operating only in Jakarta. New Courts containing the same makeup as
the Jakarta Commercial Court are planned for the four other regions in the Country, and in
addition to geographical expansion of the Commercial Court, the jurisdiction of these courts will
be expanded to encompass other commercial matters, e.g., arbitration, competition, security
issues, etc. It is critical to public confidence in the Commercial Courts that they function
properly, efficiently and on an infonned basis. These courts must constitute a reliable alternative
for addressing financially distressed companies and serve as an important complement to the
Jakarta Initiative.
Debtors and creditors who fail to reach agreements in a out-of-court workout under the Jakarta
Initiative or otherwise, or who fail to gain the requisite creditor support for the workout plan, can
resort to the Commercial Court to bind hold out creditors, impose strict guidelines on the
negotiating process or to achieve liquidation of the company. In the longer term, the Commercial
Courts are envisaged to play a central role in modernizing the commercial legal system within
Indonesia. The significance of a sound bankruptcy system cannot be understated as it provides a
backdrop for negotiations in the workout and restructuring process against which parties often
gauge their legal rights.



Page 31                             ANNEX 4
ANNEX 4: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
Indonesia: Corporate Restructuring Technical Assistance Project
Project Component                                         Local Foreign  Total
- ($ million) -
Component I: Facilitation and Advisory Activities to support  10.0    7.2    17.2
corporate restructuring.
Component II: Streamlining and strengthening regulatory, legal and    4.5    0.6  5.1
administrative processes for corporate restructuring.
Component III: Training and Capacity Building for JITF       1.8    1.2      3.0
Component IV: Coordination between the JITF and other       2.5    0.0       2.5
institutions
Component V: Implementation Support and Capacity Building   2.6    1.0       3.6
Contingencies /a                                            3.6    0.0       3.6
Total Project Costs                                   25.0   10.0    35.0
/a Includes 1 percent fee payable to the Bank.



Page 32                     ANNEX 5
ANNEX 5: COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS SUMMARY
Indonesia: Corporate Restructuring Technical Assistance Project
Not Applicable



Page 33                              ANNEX 6
ANNEX 6: FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Indonesia: Corporate Restructuring Technical Assistance Project
Institution   Foreign    Share       Local       Share       Total      Share
($ million)   (%)      ($ million)    (%)      ($ million)   (%)
IBRD           10.0        100        21.5          86        31.5          90
GOI             0.0          0         3.5          14         3.5          10
Total     10.0        100        25.0         100        35.0         100



Page 34                              ANNEX 7
ANNEX 7: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
ARRANGEMENTS
Indonesia: Corporate Restructuring Technical Assistance Project
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A). Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the
Guidelines). Procurement of Consultants will be done according to the provisions of the
"Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers' (the Consultant
Guidelines dated January 1997 and revised September 1997 and January 1999). All consultants
assignments will follow the Bank's Standard Request for Proposals dated July 1997 and revised
April 1998. Except as otherwise provided, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines applicable to quality-
and cost-based selection of consultants. Table A of this Section shows the project costs by
procurement arrangements.
Procurement of Goods
The total expenditure on equipment is limited to $1.29 million. Equipment may be procured
using international competitive bidding (ICB) or National Shopping, up to an aggregate amount
of $500,000 for National Shopping, owing to the urgency of establishing the JITF and PSDRT
offices. At least three quotations from qualified suppliers will be obtained.
Procurement of Consultant Services
Single-Source Selection. This project has been prepared in response to an economic crisis and
rapid selection of consultants will be essential in several of the components. Skills required for
these components are extremely specialized and some candidates with these unique capacities
have already been identified. Single-source selection may be used to hire specialist firms,
including investment advisors and lawyers. One law firm, in particular, has been working with
the Project under GOI funding, and GOI has requested that they continue under Loan funding,
through the PPF facility in the beginning. A second, smaller single-source contract is
contemplated for a local law firm to work closely with the international finm in setting up an
interim financing scheme involving intemnational financial institutions and possibly creditor
countries.
Individual Consultants. Tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. In
particular, individuals will be contracted to participate in a pool of facilitators and sectoral
specialists to assist with deal facilitation in corporate restructuring. Selection will be made on the
basis of recommendation and evaluations of CVs, with the no objection of the Bank.



Page 35                              ANNEX 7
Prior and Post-Review. Prior review will be required of all goods contracts over $200,000
procured through ICB. No international shopping is anticipated. No National Shopping contracts
are expected to exceed $200,000. In view of the fact that most procurement will be carried out
early in the project by relatively inexperienced PIU procurement staff, prior review will be
required for all goods procured through National Shopping. The procurement advisors at the
Resident Mission in Jakarta will provide assistance and will review all procurement
documentation prior to requesting quotations for National Shopping or issuing requests for bids
for ICB. All consultants contracts procured through quality- and cost-based selection (QCBS)
procedures will be subject to prior review. For firms procured through quality-based selection
(QBS) or Consultants' Qualifications (CQ), all contracts over $100,000 will be subject to prior
review. All individual contracts over $50,000 will be subject to prior review. All contracts with
supporting documentation for individuals assigned to the facilitator pool will be subject to prior
review. With respect to post-review of consultants' contracts, the procedures set forth in
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants shall
apply. Thresholds for prior review are summarized in Table B.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table D). Expenditures for individual contracts of equipment and
services, for which prior review by the Bank is not required, will be disbursed against Statements
of Expenditures (SOEs). For expenditures incurred on the basis of SOEs, all records evidencing
such information must be retained by the project entity until at least one year after the Bank has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the loan account is
made. Full documentation will be submitted for all contracts requiring the Bank's prior review.
Disbursements, representing mainly expenditures under short-term implementation assistance,
will be made over a period of two and a half years. Since the Government wishes to advance
rapidly, with respect to crisis management capability in the corporate sectors, retroactive
financing, not to exceed $3.0 million (9.6 percent of Loan amount), will be applied to finance
eligible expenditures, with the Government's request and the Bank's prior approval.
Use of Statements of Expenditure. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account
to be made on the basis of SOEs for: (a) goods under contracts costing less than $200,000
equivalent each; (b) contracts for the employmnent of consulting firms valued at less than
$100,000 each; and (c) contracts for the employment of individuals valued at less than $50,000
each.
Special Account. A Special Account in US dollars will be established at Bank Indonesia or an
agreed commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. The special account managed by the Directorate
General of Budget, MOF, and will have an authorized allocation of $3.0 million. The amount of
the initial deposit in the Special Account, however, will be limited to $1.5 million until
disbursements reach $6.0 million, at which stage the amount will be increased to $3.0 million.
When consultants' and suppliers' bills are due, the PIU will review and, if satisfied, forward the
bills to DG Budget or its Treasury office (KPKN) for issuance of payment orders (SPM), which
instruct Bank Indonesia to remit funds to beneficiaries" accounts and debit the Project Special
Account. DG Budget will submit applications for replenishment of the Special Account on a
monthly basis, or when the account is drawn down by 20 percent of the initial deposit, whichever
occurs first.



Page 36                              ANNEX 7
Annex 7, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in $ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category     International   National   Other /a  NBF /b  Total
Competitive   Competitive                   Cost /c
Bidding (ICB) Bidding (NCB)
Equipment                        0.74                     0.44              1.18
(0.74)                  (0.28)            (1.02)
Consultant Services                                      27.77             27.77
(25.79)          (25.79)
Training                                                  2.52              2.52
(2.52)           (2.52)
Public Education                                          1.65              1.65
(1.65)           (1.65)
Incremental Operating Expenses                            1.56              1.56
(0.20)           (0.20)
Totals                      0.74                    33.94             34.68
(0.74)                 (30.44)           (31.18)
/a Includes National Shopping for equipment. See Annex 7, Table Al for procurement
categories for consultant services.
/b Not Bank-financed.
/c Including contingencies, allocated across categories.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the estimated amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Page 37                                     ANNEX 7
Annex 7, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
($ million)
Consultant Services        QCBS    QBS         CQ       SS        IND       Other    Total
Cost/a
A. Facilitation & advisory    7.77                          3.01      6.80               17.58
services to support corporate  (7.77)                      (2.27)    (6.66)             (16.70)
restructuring
B. Streamlining and strengthen-    3.71                     1.00                          4.71
ing regulatory, legal and admnin-  (3.71)                  (1.00)                        (4.71)
istrative processes for corporate
restructuring
C. Capacity building for JITF                     0.28                                    0.28
(0.28)                                 (0.28)
D. Debt Team Coordination               0.25      0.25      0.02      0.29                0.81
(0.25)    (0.25)    (0.02)    (0.17)             (0.69)
E. Support and Capacity       0.60                          0.49      0.62                1.71
Building for BIand INDRA     (0.60)                                  (0.51)              (1.11)
Totals                 12.08      0.25      0.53      4.52      7.71               25.09
(12.08)    (0.25)    (0.53)    (3.29)    (7.34)            (23.49)
/a Does not include contingencies
Note:  QCBS   Quality and Cost-Based Selection
QBS    Quality-Based Selection
CQ       Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
SS       Single Source Selection
IND      Selection of individuals on basis of qualifications
Figures in parentheses are the amount presently allocated to be financed by the Bank
Loan.



Page 38                                     ANNEX 7
Annex 7, Table B: Thresholds for Prior Review
Expenditure  Contract Value          Procurement Method             Contracts Subject to Prior
Category     (Threshold)                                                   Review
(US$'000)
Goods            <200 /a     National Shopping                    Prior review of all specifications
and proposed vendors
>200        International Competitive Bidding   Prior review of all
Services
Firms             0/b      Single Source                       Prior review of all
>100        QCBS                                Prior review of all
<100        QBS and CQ (Consultants' Qualifications) Prior review of TOR, evaluation
criteria, and contract
Individuals     <50        Individual Selection                Prior review of all over 50
thousand, and of all TORs
regardless of size
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
/a In view of the urgency in establishing and mobilizing the offices, the threshold is higher than would normally
be allowed. Most major manufacturers of computer equipment are represented in Jakarta. All documentation for
procurement of goods, including specifications and proposed list of vendors, will be reviewed by the
procurement staff of the Resident Mission prior to requesting quotations.
/b  One large single source contract (ceiling US$3,000,000) is proposed with an intemational law finr which has
been providing the strategic advice on the project as well as assisting with deal facilitation because of the need
for continuity. A second, smaller single source contract is proposed for a local law firm to work closely with the
intemational firm in setting up an interim financing scheme involving intemational financial institutions and
possibly creditor countries. No other single source contracts are contemplated.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High         X
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every four months
(includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits).



Page 39                                                ANNEX 7
Annex 7, Table C: Procurement Plan (Preliminary)
Main Consultant Contracts         Notice for   Expression of  Request for    Proposals    Contract   Consultants
Expression of    Interest    Proposals     Received       Award         Start
Interest    Submitted
Single source contract with international law                          01/99         01/99         03/99        01/99
firm for strategic advice.
Single source contract with local law firm to                          03/99         03/99         03/99        03/99
assist with interim financing setup.
Establish pool of individual facilitators to  -            -           03/99         03/99         03/99        03/99
support corporate restructuring. Persons can
be added as identified (individual contracts)
Firm to provide facilitators to support corpo-  03/99    04/99         04/99         05/99         06/99        06/99
rate restructuring. (QCBS, local advertising)
Firm or firms to provide local lawyers as  03/99         04/99         04/99         05/99         06199        06/99
needed to support corporate restructuring
(QCBS, local advertising)
Firm or firns to provide local accountants as  03/99     04/99         04/99         05/99         06/99        06/99
needed to support corporate restructuring
(QCBS, local advertising)
Senior case managers and case managers to                                                          03/99        03/99
work with the JITF team to mnanage support of
corporate restructuring (individual contracts)
Officers and staff of the JITF team (individual                                                    03/99        03/99
contracts)
Local law firm to assist in establishing the  03/99      04/99         04/99         05/99         06/99        06/99
regulatory facilitation facility and streamlin-
ing and strengthening regulatory, legal and
administrative processes (QCBS, local
advertising)
Officers and staff for Debt Team Coordination                                                      03/99        03/99
and INDRA (individual contracts)
Local firms to provide design and mainte-  03/99         03/99         03/99         03/99         03/99        03/99
nance of application software, website, inter-
net facility, and computer operations (selected
on basis of Consultants' Qualifications)
Law firm to provide legal counsel for dispute  03/99     04/99         04/99         05/99         06/99        06/99
resolution (QCBS)
Firm for software design and development for    03/99    04/99         04/99         05/99         05/99         05/99
improvement of the existing DAMS system in
BI and INDRA (QCBS, local advertising)
Preparation of informational guidelines, forms    03/99  03/99         03/99         04/99         04/99         04/99
and reporting mechanisms for debtors and
creditors on the operation of the Jakarta
Initiative (Consultants' qualifications)
Public relations management (QCBS, local   03/99         04/99         04/99         05/99         05/99        05/99
advertising)
Organization of special events to disseminate  03/99     04/99         04/99         05/99         05/99        05/99
information on the Jakarta Initiative
(Consultants' qualifications)
Note: It is recognized that the time frame is short and may cause difficulties for the borrower in the issuance and evaluation of RFPs &
proposals. The Team recognizes this and will take every effort to assist, given urgency of the situation.



Page 40                              ANNEX 7
Annex 7, Table D: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount              Financing percentage
($ million)
Consultants' Services, Training,   30.16    100 % of all expenditures
and Public Education
Equipment                       1.02    100% of foreign expenditures.
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
65% of all local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Project Costs            31.18
Front-end Fee                  0.315
Total                    31.50



Page 41                               ANNEX 8
ANNEX 8: PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
Indonesia: Corporate Restructuring Technical Assistance Project
Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Project Budget (US$'000)                                             178.0 est.
Project Schedule
Time taken to prepare the project (weeks)                               15
First Bank mission (identification)                                   09/98
Appraisal mission departure                                           12/98
Negotiations                                                          02/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                                         04/99
Prepared in conjunction with government counterparts including the Jakarta Initiative Task
Force, Bank Indonesia, PSDRT, MOF and INDRA.
Preparation assistance from PPF and PHRD.
Peer Reviewers: Doug Webb, Klaus Lorch, Ira Lieberman, Arvind Gupta.
Bank staff on the project team and who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Dale F. Gray           Task Team Leader-Principal Economist and PSD Specialist
Chitta Bhattacharya    Procurement Specialist
Hilarion Bruneau       Disbursement Officer
Bridie Champion        Disbursement Officer
Mario Cuevas           PSD Specialist/Consultant
Bernard Drum           Principal PSD Specialist
Clifford Garstang      Lawyer
Leonid Koryukin        PSD Specialist/Consultant
Andrew Mack            PSD Specialist/Consultant
Gerald Meyerman        Manager, PSDCR
Behdad Nowroozi        Financial Management Specialist
Scott Stevenson        Senior PSD Specialist
Anthony Toft           Lawyer
Al Wight               Procurement Specialist



Page 42                               ANNEX 9
ANNEX 9: ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTATION AND
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
Indonesia: Corporate Restructuring Technical Assistance Project
A. ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTATION:
(i) The Jakarta Initiative
PREAMBLE
It is in the interest of Indonesian society to speed corporate-sector recovery in order to
increase employment opportunities and thereby reduce poverty, to assist in promoting the
recovery of the banking and financial sector, and to generate tax revenue for the nation. The
successful implementation of these legally nonbinding principles will represent an important
contribution to the economic recovery in Indonesia. The Government anticipates that it will issue
supplementary guidelines as part of the implementation of these principles.
GOVERNMENT POLICY
It is essential to the recovery of the Indonesian economy that distressed companies agree
with their creditors on corporate and debt restructuring so that these companies might access
working and new capital and contribute to the growth of the economy, maintain and increase
employment, and generate tax revenue for the nation.
IMPLEMENTATION
Out-of-court commercial negotiations between a company and its creditors, on an
expedited basis, is the process pursuant to which corporate and debt restructuring can best be
accomplished. The Government will play a limited but crucial role in facilitating and
encouraging this process. This out-of-court process, which will apply to both domestic and
foreign creditors, will complement the newly amended bankruptcy law and facilitate the bank
restructuring process and the use of INDRA.
FOUR-POINT GOVERNMENT PROGRAM
In order to facilitate such out-of-court negotiations, the Government seeks to implement
the following program:
1.  Adoption of Principles
The Government wishes to facilitate negotiations by the establishment of a number of
principles as follows:
a.   Organization and Representation
(1) Companies should normally engage advisors who are experienced in corporate
and debt restructuring.



Page 43                                ANNEX 9
(2)  The restructuring process may be initiated by either the company or its
creditors. Creditors should form a sole steering committee representative of
creditors (the "Committee").
(3)  Unless otherwise agreed, the Committee should select a chairperson, financial
advisor and legal advisor, each of which should be experienced in the process
of corporate and debt restructuring. Costs will be borne by the debtor, unless
otherwise agreed.
b.   Critical Role of Senior Management
It is critical that the company and the Committee members appoint senior managers to
participate in these debt and corporate restructurings. These senior managers should have
demonstrable authority.
c.   Standstill and Interim Financing
(1)  Subject to reasonable conditions that are consistent with these principles, the
creditors should agree to a standstill for a reasonable and finite period of time.
(2)  During standstill period(s), debtors and creditors should agree on a set of
special rules detailing what creditors and debtors can and cannot do during the
standstill period.
(3)  To the extent practicable, creditors should subordinate their claims to any new
funds advanced after the standstill commences. Creditors should consider
providing (or subordinating to others who are willing to provide) critical
working capital necessary to finance the company's operations during these
negotiations, upon the submission of satisfactory and credible cash budgets
which demonstrate the company's needs. Access to information should be
provided in order to permit an evaluation of request(s) for interim financing.
(4)  Permissible uses of, control over, conditions for disbursement of, and
monitoring mechanisms for, such interim financing should be agreed between
creditor and debtor.
d.   Information
(1)  The Committee members and their professional advisors should sign
confidentiality agreements. The company should then submit up-to-date,
detailed financial information to the Committee and its advisors.
(2)  To the extent permitted by the then applicable law, the information should
include current, accurate and complete reporting (consistent with
internationally acceptable accounting standards unless the Committee agrees
otherwise). The following is an indicative list of that information which will
likely be sought; actual information to be provided shall be determined on case-
by-case basis between debtor and creditors:
*  a description of the company's group structure and all share holdings and a
detailed description of all outstanding borrowings and financial
arrangements (including which group companies are obligors or guarantors,
which borrowings and arrangements are secured, and the repayment
schedule for each borrowing and arrangement);
* a balance sheet (including all assets and all liabilities, listed by obligor) as
of the standstill date and for each quarter ending during the three-year



Page 44                                ANNEX 9
period leading up to the standstill date and a balance sheet forecast for the
following three to five years;
*  details of (and copies of) all collateral security documents (including
identification of which assets are encumbered), guarantee agreements, and
subordination agreements;
*  a detailed listing of all intercompany obligations (including security,
guarantee and subordination agreements if applicable);
*  an income statement for the three-year period leading up to the standstill
date and an income forecast for the following three to five years (all on a
quarterly basis);
*  a cash flow statement for the three-year period leading up to the standstill
date and a cash flow forecast for the following three to five years;
*  details of (and copies of) each of the company's major or critical contracts
(including those with creditors, suppliers, customers, management,
shareholders, etc.);
*  the company's business plan, including its goals and strategies, its position
in the marketplace, and its competition; and
3  such other information as may be necessary for the Committee to evaluate
the rescue proposal.
e.   Company Restructuring Proposal
(1)  The company should propose a restructuring plan to the Committee not
inconsistent with these principles, accompanied by the disclosure of full
information, as agreed between the parties.
(2)  The proposal should be built on the company's business plan and financial
forecasts, the preparation of which should heed creditors' contractual priorities,
including collateral positions.
f.   Committee's Advisory Report
(1)  The company should grant full and ongoing access to the Committee's advisors
to review the company's business and financial status. The Committee's
.advisors will use this information to prepare an advisory report.
(2)  The advisory report should include a review and analysis of the company's
business operations and management and future prospects. The report should
contain recommendations and conclusions as to the viability of the enterprise,
group or any business thereunder, its ability to service its debt and its working
capital needs Going forward.
g.   Negotiation of a Restructuring Plan
(1)  Utilizing both the company's restructuring proposal and the Committee's
advisory report and such other information as may be available, the debtor and
Committee should enter into negotiations to achieve a corporate and debt
restructuring plan.
(2)  The agreed plan should respect and preserve creditors' contractual positions,
including creditors collateral rights and positions under subordination
agreements.



Page 45                              ANNEX 9
(3) No party should be forced to make any concession, but commercial
considerations should control each party's decisionmaking process.
(4) An expeditious process is critical so that market uncertainty about the
company's viability does not become a self-fulfilling prophecy.
h.   Prenegotiated Bankruptcy Plans
(1)  Upon reaching a corporate and debt restructure plan, best efforts shall be made
to present the plan to all creditors, except those creditors whose rights will not
be affected.
(2)  Insofar as unanimity between all creditors may be elusive, the newly amended
bankruptcy law may permit access to the commercial court for approval of the
"prenegotiated" plan (making it binding on all creditors, even those who do not
consent to it), provided that the prenegotiated plan complies with the
requirements of the newly amended bankruptcy law.
i.   Nondiscrimination
There shall be no discrimination between domestic and foreign creditors.
2.  Jakarta Initiative Task Force
A Presidentially-appointed Jakarta Initiative Task Force (the "Task Force") will be
established to facilitate the successful restructuring of Indonesian companies in accordance
with the Jakarta Initiative. To ensure that the Task Force is effective, it shall be directed
and supported by a dedicated team and will receive adequate funding to support its
operations. The responsibilities of the Task Force will include:
a.   Facilitating of out-of-court negotiations.
b.   Where appropriate to serve the public interest, making referrals to the public
prosecutor to move the restructuring negotiations to a court-supervised process under
the newly amended bankruptcy law.
c.   Providing a forum for expedited "one stop approval" of all regulatory filings
necessary to implement a restructuring plan.
3.   Regulatory changes
The Government will make the necessary regulatory changes to facilitate implementation
of negotiated corporate restructurings. The Task Force may provide recommendations on
any further legal, regulatory or administrative changes needed to further facilitate corporate
restructuring.
4.   Corporate Restructuring Advisory Committee and Public Participation
The Task Force shall designate a Corporate Restructuring Advisory Committee which shall
be comprised of a select representative group of domestic and foreign banks, Indonesian
companies and bondholders. A representative of IBRA and INDRA shall also participate in
the Committee to enhance coordination with other aspects of government policy.
The Corporate Restructuring Advisory Committee may propose new approaches and
actions, review the effectiveness of actions undertaken, and make recommendations to
facilitate the successful implementation of the Jakarta Initiative.



Page 46                              ANNEX 9
The Corporate Restructuring Advisory Committee should meet regularly and confidentially
report its findings to the Task Force. Furthermore, the Task Force should consult with the
Corporate Restructuring Advisory Committee as required.
The Task Force will also draw on the collective experiences of professionals from the legal
and financial communities, and will also consult with representatives of labor and
consumer groups.
(ii) INDRA
Indonesian Debt Restructuring Agency
INDRA's Purpose
INDRA was created to assist Indonesian debtors to repay their obligations to foreign creditors.
INDRA's Basic Principles
*  The debtor remains responsible for its financial obligation to the foreign creditor, but INDRA
allows the debtor to fulfill that obligation by making rupiah payments directly to INDRA.
*  INDRA will not assume private sector debt or "bail out" Indonesian companies; rather, it
provides debtors with access to foreign exchange at a guaranteed exchange rate.
l INDRA will be self-financing.
Basic Elements of the INDRA Program
INDRA sells dollars to the debtor. The exchange rate for the sale is the best market rate (over
a span of 20 consecutive trading days) between August 1998 and June 1999. The exchange
rate may be adjusted again in mid-2000 if the exchange rate continues to improve. INDRA
retains the dollars to pay the creditor.
* The debtor may pay INDRA directly for the purchase of dollars, or it may finance the
purchase by borrowing Rupiahs from INDRA. If financed, the outstanding principal balance
of the Rupiah loan will be indexed to inflation, and interest will be payable on such indexed
principal. The interest rate is 5.5 percent a year or 5.0 percent a year if the debtor elects to
repay the Rupiah loan over a five- to eight-year period, adjusted in each case quarterly for the
inflation component of LIBOR. The interest rate is reduced by 0.5 percent for the first two
years of the Rupiah loan for debtors who enter the program before January 31, 1999.
Payments of principal and interest are made monthly over the life of the restructured debt.
*  INDRA pays interest to the creditors in dollars at the rate of LIBOR plus margin up to 3
percent and (after at least 3 years) principal. Payments are made quarterly over the life of the
restructured debt.
Conditions for Entry into the INDRA Program
*  Both debtor and creditor voluntarily agree to enter the program. The Government will not
compel either party to join.
*  The original loan agreement was executed on or prior to April 30, 1998, and the debtor has
registered all of its foreign currency obligations with Bank Indonesia as required by law.
*  Both the debtor and creditor agree to restructure the debtor's foreign currency obligation
such that principal is repaid in not less than eight years with a three-year grace period.



Page 47                             ANNEX 9
*  The original debt (i) is the obligation of an Indonesian private or public entity (other than a
commercial bank), (ii) is denominated in a currency other than Indonesian Rupiahs, and (iii)
is not guaranteed by the Government.
* The original debt is owed to (i) creditors located outside of Indonesia, (ii) Indonesian joint
venture banks controlled by non-Indonesians, or (iii) Indonesians branches of foreign banks.
*  If a creditor suffer any deferral of cash flow as a result of restructuring a loan through
INDRA, the creditor cannot accelerate payments under other existing loans with the debtor to
communicate for such deferral.
*  The debtor and creditor must comply with all other requirements of the INDRA program.
Advantages of the INDRA Program
For the Debtor:
* Protection from further decline in the exchange rate.
* Access to foreign exchange at a guaranteed real exchange rate.
* A framework for restructuring its foreign currency debt.
* Cash flow relief as foreign currency debt is rescheduled over not less than 8 years.
For the Creditor:
* Assurance that dollars will be available to pay the debtor's obligations.
* An increased likelihood that the debtor will be able to repay its obligations.
For Indonesia:
* A reduction in the short-term demand for US dollars, thereby easing pressure on the
exchange rate and balance of payments.
* Support for economic reform in Indonesia by strengthening Indonesian companies and
creating an improved climate for foreign investment.
(iii) Revisions to the Indonesian Bankruptcy Law
The President of the Republic of Indonesia issued on 22 April 1998 a Government Regulation in
lieu of law Number 1 of the Year 1998 (PERPIU). This regulation contains several amendments
to the prevailing Bankruptcy Law of Indonesia. This Bankruptcy Law was enacted in 1906
during the Dutch colonial era.
This memorandum sets out some key features of the new Indonesian Bankruptcy Law.
Standard of insolvency
In order to commence bankruptcy proceedings the debtor should (a) have two or more creditors
and (b) have failed to pay at least one debt which is due and payable. These two requirements are
an interpretation of the former standard of insolvency, i.e. "the debtor is in the position of having
ceased to pay his debts". The new standard is clear and unambiguous.
There are two general rules: (a) all debtors may be declared bankrupt and (b) any creditor, even a
foreign creditor, may file a bankruptcy petition and is entitled to a bankruptcy order if the above
two criteria are satisfied. The bankruptcy order is only subject to limited rights of appeal by



Page 48                              ANNEX 9
causation, civil review and the ability of the debtor to commence composition proceedings (see
below). However, there are special rules for banks and securities companies. They may only be
declared bankrupt at the request of Bank Indonesia or BAPEPAM (the Capital Market
Supervisory Authority) respectively.
Commercial Court
The debtor may only be declared bankrupt by the new Commercial Court. The Commercial
Court forms part of the court of general jurisdiction and was established on 20 August 1998. The
competent Commercial Court is the court having jurisdiction over the region where the debtor is
domiciled (e.g. the statutory seat of a company). Initially, only the Commercial Court of Central
Jakarta will have jurisdiction for the entire territory of Indonesia. It is envisaged, however, that at
a later stage Commercial Courts will also be established in Medan, Surabaya, Ujung Pandang,
Semarang and other cities.
Timetables
The Bankruptcy Law introduces a strict set of timetables that should expedite the bankruptcy
proceedings.
*  A creditor who petitions for bankruptcy is entitled to receive from the registrar of the court a
signed and dated receipt of such filing.
*  The debtor must be summoned by the court for a hearing on his financial position. Such
hearing must be held no later than 20 working days after registration of the bankruptcy
petition. It is possible to adjourn the hearing upon the debtor's request and subject to
sufficient reasons, but the time period for rendering a judgement must not be exceeded.
*  The court is required to render a judgement within 30 working days of registration of the
bankruptcy petition.
*  Similar strict time limits apply to the procedure for appeal by causation (restricted to matters
of law) and civil review.
*  The bankruptcy order is immediately enforceable; legal relief does not in any way preclude
the receiver to start with the settlement of the bankruptcy estate.
Provisional remedies
Pending a decision for a declaration of bankruptcy a creditor may submit a petition to the court
to:
* impose a conservatory attachment on assets of the debtor; or
* appoint an interim receiver to supervise the debtor's business.
An order will be made upon proof that such provisional remedy is necessary to protect the
interest of creditors (e.g. where the debtor is dissipating or transferring assets). Only in the event
of a conservatory attachment, the petitioning creditor may be required by the court to post
reasonable security.



Page 49                              ANNEX 9
Private receivers
A panel of registered private receivers (such as lawyers, accountants and other professionals with
similar expertise) has been created as an alternative to the Balai Harta Peninggalan (Orphan
Chamber) in bankruptcy proceedings and also as an option as administrator in suspension of
payments.
*  A creditor or a debtor who files for bankruptcy may request the appointment of a private
receiver. In the absence of such a request, the Balai Harta Peninggalan will act as receiver.
*  Private receivers must be Indonesian residents who are registered with the Ministry of
Justice.
*  A receiver may be replaced with another duly qualified receiver upon a vote of creditors.
This requires the approval of more than half of the unsecured creditors in attendance
representing at least more than half of the amount of the unsecured claims of the creditors
who are present at a creditors meeting.
*  A receiver is entitled to an indemnity for his costs and expenses out of the assets of the
bankruptcy estate.
*  A receiver may be personally liable if he was negligent in performing his duties.
Clawback provisions
The Bankruptcy Law contains several provisions which may invalidate acts of the debtor carried
out before bankruptcy which are detrimental to creditors. These provisions are now strengthened
in several ways:
*  The receiver is empowered to avoid transactions which were voluntarily undertaken by the
debtor if he can establish that both parties to the transaction knew or should have known that
the transaction was detrimental to creditors.
*  Such knowledge is presumed by law for transactions entered into within one year of a
declaration of bankruptcy provided the transaction involved e.g.:
(a) the debtor receiving substantially less than the estimated value (such as a sale of an
asset at an undervalue); or
(b) the payment of debts not yet due or the voluntary granting of security for debts.
*  This list is extended in the new Bankruptcy Law and includes now:
(c) transactions entered into by the debtor and certain corporate insiders; or
(d) inter group transactions.
*  Only in exceptional circumstances the receiver may invalidate acts of the debtor (e.g.
payment of a debt or the granting of security for a debt) if there was a contractual obligation
to perform. The only grounds for challenging the performance of such an act will be:
(a) the creditor knew that a petition for bankruptcy was already pending; or
(b) the transaction was the result of consultation between the debtor and the creditor with
the intention of preferring that creditor over other creditors.



Page 50                               ANNEX 9
Stay on secured creditors' rights
One of the important changes in the Bankruptcy Law is the introduction of a stay on secured
creditors' rights (e.g. a right of mortgage, pledge or fiduciary transfer for security purposes).
*  The purpose of the stay is to promote the orderly handling of the bankruptcy estate. It grants
the receiver some time to take decision on how to administer the bankruptcy, to see what
rights third parties have in respect of assets which are in the possession of the debtor and
which assets should be preserved for the estate, (e.g. in connection with the continuation of a
business or a composition).
*  The right to enforce the security is postponed for a maximum period of 90 working days.
Enforcement requires prior authorization of the receiver or the supervisory judge.
*  The stay does not only apply to (a) assets of the debtor which are encumbered with a security
right, but also to (b) certain assets that belong to third parties if these assets were in the
control of the debtor (e.g. various forms of vendor or lessor finance, such as a sale and
repurchase, retention of title, financial lease and hire purchase).
-  The stay does not affect setoff rights and does not apply to claims which are secured by cash
deposits.
3  Secured creditors are entitled to adequate protection during the term of the stay. Adequate
protection is the "price" to be paid by the receiver for the stay and it may include interest
payments, compensation for the diminution of the value of the assets, the net proceeds of a
sale or a fair and reasonable remuneration or other cash payments.
*  If adequate protection is provided, it is possible for the receiver to use and sell assets of the
bankruptcy estate in the ordinary course of business (e.g. stock).
?  A secured creditor may request the supervisory judge to lift or otherwise vary the terms of
the stay. The decision of the supervisory judge can be appealed to the Commercial Court.
Foreign currency
If a debt claimed for dividend is denominated in a non-Indonesian currency, the debt is to be
calculated in Rupiah at the rate of exchange on the day the debtor was declared bankrupt. This
rule, however, does not apply to secured creditors.
Composition
A debtor may offer a composition plan both in bankruptcy and in suspension of payments (see
below). The Bankruptcy Law makes it possible to give the composition binding force vis-A-vis
creditors who are against such composition. Upon acceptance of the composition the debtor is
liberated from the remainder of his debts.
*  Secured creditors and creditors who enjoy a statutory priority right are not bound by the
composition plan. They are entitled to full payment of their claims.
*  A composition plan may include an offer to pay creditors in full or in part. It may also allow
for a conversion of debt into equity. In that case, the general meeting of shareholders should
also approve the relevant terms of the composition plan.



Page 51                             ANNEX 9
* Acceptance of a composition plan merely requires the approval of more than half of the
unsecured creditors in attendance representing at least two-thirds of the amount of the
unsecured claims of the creditors who are present at a creditors meeting. This change will
facilitate compositions.
Suspension of payments
Suspension of payments gives the debtor temporary relief against pressing creditors in order to
reorganize and continue in business, and ultimately to satisfy creditors' claims. If the
reorganization of the business is not successful, suspension of payments can be easily converted
into bankruptcy. The key features of suspension of payments are the following:
*  Suspension of payments may be granted only at the request of the debtor. It is expressly
stated that a debtor who cannot or foresees that he will not be able to pay his debts may apply
for suspension of payments for the general purpose of submitting a composition plan. If
acceptance of a composition plan is not feasible, it is the duty of the administrator to request
the Commercial Court to convert suspension of payments into bankruptcy.
*  Suspension of payments will be provisionally granted by the court without necessity of any
further investigation.
*  Immediately after the suspension of payments has been provisionally granted by the court,
the administrator shall convene a creditors meeting to vote on:
(a) the composition plan it if has been timely submitted by the debtor; or
(b) the conversion of the provisional suspension of payments into a permanent suspension
of payments
*  Such meeting shall be held within 45 working days from the date the suspension of payments
has been provisionally granted. The creditors may monitor the proceedings by granting a
permanent suspension of payments for successive periods. In total, these periods may not
exceed 270 working days from the date of granting of the provisional suspension of
payments. Creditors' decisions in this respect require the approval of more than half of the
unsecured creditors in attendance representing at least two-thirds of the amount of the
unsecured claims of the creditors who are present at a creditors meeting.
*  In short: (a) the provisional suspension of payments lasts until the first creditors meeting is
held (within 45 working days), (b) the maximum period for suspension of payments is 270
working days, (c) the decision on the precise duration of the permanent suspension of
payments is fully creditor-driven.
*  If a permanent suspension of payments or an extension thereof has not been granted at a
creditors meeting, the Commercial Court will automatically and immediately declare the
debtor bankrupt.
*  In its judgement granting the petition for suspension of payments the court will appoint an
administrator. The debtor in a suspension of payments is not allowed to manage his business
without the cooperation of the administrator.
* The scope of suspension of payments is limited to unsecured creditors only. Suspension of
payments shall not apply to claims of secured creditors and creditors who enjoy a statutory
priority right. The debtor is obligated to pay these debts in full. However, creditors'
enforcement rights are stayed during the suspension of payments.



Page 52                              ANNEX 9
* There is also a stay on secured creditors' rights during suspension of payments with similar
features as in bankruptcy, but in this case for the full period of the proceedings (i.e. a
maximum period of 270 working days).
New financing
During bankruptcy and suspension of payments it is possible to continue the business. To that
end, the receiver or the administrator may borrow funds, even on a secured basis. Debts so
incurred are estate debts and enjoy priority over unsecured prepetition debts.
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
A draft project implementation plan with detailed breakdowns for each component is in the
project files and is being finalized by the borrowers.
C. BANK STAFF ASSESSMENTS
Doug Webb: BTO outlining legal work and training for the JI process
Gordon Brown: analysis of Indonesian Bankruptcy Law
Leonid Koryukin: needs assessment for Jakarta Initiative Information System
D. OTHER
Jakarta Initiative
Indonesia Bankruptcy Law
PPF Documentation
PHRD Grant Documentation
Case Managers' Handbook
A Guide to Out of Court Debt Restructuring for Indonesian Companies
Draft Project Implementation Plan



Page 53                                                      ANNEX 10
ANNEX 10: STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
Status of Bank Group Operations in Indonesia, as of January 31, 1999
Difference
Between expected   Last PSR
and actual    Supervision
Fiscal                                                               Original Amount in US$ Millions    disbursements    Rating /a
Project ID    Year          Borrower                       Purpose                IBRD      IDA Cancel.   Undisb.   Orig    Frm   Dev  Imp
Rev'd  Obj  Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 211
Active Projects
ID-PE-3922     1991  GOI                         Sulawesi/Irian Jaya               100.00     0.00    0.00       1.78     1.76    0.00   S     S
ID-PE-3997     1992  GOI                         Telecom IV                        375.00     0.00   50.08      48.79    98.85   -2.70   S     S
ID-PE-3969     1992  GOI                         Primary School Teach               36.60     0.00    3.20       2.91     6.11    0.00   S     S
ID-PE-3940     1992  GOI                         Primary Educ Quality Improve       37.00     0.00    6.00       3.90     9.90    0.00   S     S
ID-PE-3916     1992                              Suralaya Thermal Power            423.60     0.00  132.20      23.82   149.25    2.33   U     S
ID-PE-3860     1992  GOI                         Treecrops Smallholder              87.60     0.00    0.00      21.34    20.03    0.00   S     S
ID-I'E-3928    1992  GOI                         Agricultural Financing            106.10     0.00   10.79      28.03    38.83    0.00   S     S
ID-PE-3966     1992  GOI                         Non-Fomnal Educ 111                69.50     0.00    3.10       .49      3.57    1.97   S     S
ID-PE-4009     1993  GOI                         IntegratedPestMgmt                 32.00     0.00    5.50      4.51    10.01      .05   S     S
ID-PE-4006     1993  GOI                         E. Indonesia Kabupaten            155.00     0.00    0.00      15.16    15.13    0.00   S     S
ID-PE-3990     1993  GOI                         Wtr & Sani For Low 1               80.00     0.00   11.00      26.73    37.75   26.42   S     S
ID-PE-3914     1993  GOI                         ThirdCommHealth&                   93.50     0.00   16.00       7.17    15.65    0.00   S     S
ID-PE-3999     1993  GOI                         Groundwaterdevt.                   54.00     0.00   18.94       7.95    18.09    1.06   U     U
ID-PE-4007     1993  GOI                         Power (Cirata 11)                 104.00     0.00   26.00      29.46    53.84    2.97   U     S
ID-PE-4020     1994  GOI                         Kabupaten Roads V                 101.50     0.00    0.00      16.39    14.71    0.00   S     S
ID-PE-4017     1994  GOI                         Univ.Research For Gr               58.90     0.00    0.00      29.34    18.46    0.00   S     S
ID-PE-4010     1994  GOI                         Dam Safety                         55.00     0.00    0.00      34.14    24.96    0.00   S     U
ID-PE-3985     1994  GOI                         Wtrshed Conservation               56.50     0.00    0.00      42.06    26.14    0.00  HU    U
ID-PE-3945     1994  GOI                         Highway Sector l                  350.00     0.00    0.00     165.51   144.16 -184.51   S     S
IDPE-3910      1994  GOI                         Sunratera&KalimanP                260.50     0.00   20.00     173.69   155.86    5.80   U     S
ID-PE-3890     1994  GOI                         Sernarang-SurakartaU              174.00     0.00    3.67      85.04    57.16   16.01   S     S
ID-PE-3937     1994  GOI                         Integrated Swamps                  65.00     0.00    0.00      32.10    19.51    0.00   U     U
ID-PE-3954     1994  GOI                         Javalrrlmp&WRM                    165.70     0.00    0.00      95.10    58.97    0.00   S     S
ID-PE-3998     1994  GOI                         Surabaya Urban                    175.00     0.00    0.00     100.33    72.36   15.37   S     U
ID-PE-39754    1995                              TA For Infra. II                   28.00     0.00    0.00      23.31    20.51    2.52   S     S
ID-PE-4001     1995  GOI                         Telecom Sector Moder              325.00     0.00   50.00     193.95   135.62    0.00  HS    S
ID-PE-3984     1995  GOI                         Land Administration                80.00     0.00    0.00      46.14    25.26    0.00   S     S
ID-PE-3972     1995  GOI                         Ag. Research II                    63.00     0.00   14.10      38.25    33.51     .35   S     S
ID-PE-3968     1995                              Book& Reading Dev                 132.50     0.00   31.50      80.08    27.33    0.00   S     S
ID-I'E-3965    1995  GOI                         Health Iv:Impr Health              88.00     0.00   20.00      50.89    25.05    4.88   S     S
ID-PE-3951     1995  GOI                         Kalimantan UDP                    136.00     0.00    0.00      61.24    52.40    0.00   S     S
ID-PE-3979     1995  GOI                         Rural Elect ll                    398.00     0.00   39.90     126.06   161.29    0.00   U     S
ID-PE-3988     1995  GOI                         PHRD 11                            69.00     0.00    0.00      30.57    10.55    0.00   S     S
ID-PE-4019     1995  GOI                         Accountancy Dev Il                 25.00     0.00    3.30      10.53    12.28    0.00   S     S
ID-I'E-41896    1996  GOI                        HR Capacity Building               20.00     0.00    3.60      14.90    10.00    0.00  NA    NA
ID-I'E-39312    1996  GOI                        Second E. Java UDP                142.70     0.00    0.00     121.73   102.83    0.00   S     S
ID-PE-4021     1996  GOI                         Pow. Trans & Dist 11              373.00     0.00   80.00     196.33   211.72   -8.54   U     U
ID-PE-4014     1996  GOI                         Kerinci SeblatICDP                 19.10     0.00    0.00      18.34     6.53    0.00   S     S
ID-PE-4008     1996  GOI                         Nusa Tenggara Dev.                 27.00     0.00    4.90      17.42     6.01    0.00   U     U
ID-PE-4003     1996  GOI                         Secondary School Tea               60.40     0.00   30.00      19.77    29.56    0.00   S     S
ID-PE-3978     1996  GOI                         Ind'l Technology Dev               47.00     0.00    6.00      24.41    22.11    5.19   U     U
ID-PE-4004     1996  GOI                         Higher Educ Sup.(lll)              65.00     0.00    0.00      45.58      .98    0.00   S     S
ID-PE-4011     1996  GOI                         Sulawesi Agri Area                 26.80     0.00    3.70      17.37     2.04    0.00   U     U
ID-PE-4016     1996  Republic of Indonesia       Strategic Urb. Rds I               86.90     0.00   10.0C      64.44    32.52    0.00   S     U
ID-PE-37097    1996  GOI                         E. Java Sec. Educ.                 99.00     0.00    0.00      81.38     8.38    0.00   S     S
ID-'FE-39643    1996  GOI                        STD/AIDS                           24.80     0.00   19.80       1.69    19.17    0.00  NA    NA
ID-PE-49051    1997                              Bepeka Audit ModerP                16.40     0.00     .90      13.05     2.15    0.00   S     S
ID-PE-42540    1997                              Iodine Def. Control                28.50     0.00    2.50      23.44     2.78    0.00   S     S
ID-PE-41894    1997  GOI                         Sumatra Sec Educ                   98.00     0.00    0.00      83.29     4.62    0.00   S     S
ID-IE-40195    1997  GOI                         Qual of Undergrad Ed               71.20     0.00    0.00      66.04     6.68    0.00   S      S
ID-PE-36047    1997  GOI                         Bali Urban Infrast.               110.00     0.00    0.00     104.52     2.82   -1.85   S     S
ID-PE-4026     1997  GOI/PERUMKA                 Rlwy Efficiency                   105.00     0.00    0.00     103.60    27.77    0.00   S     U
ID-PE-3987     1997                              C. Indonesia Sec. Edu.            104.00     0.00    0.00      96.50    25.46    0.00   S     S
ID-PE-35544    1997  GOI                         Solar Home Systems                 20.00     0.00    2.50      17.50     4.50    0.00   U     U
ID-PE-36053    1997  GOI                         Sulawesi UDP II                   155.00     0.00    .05      139.05    62.08    2.40   S      S
ID-PE-40521    1997  GOI                         Village Infra II                  140.10     0.00    0.00      80.87    43.70   13.15   S      S
ID-PE-55755    1998  Republic of Indonesia       Banking Reform Asst                20.00     0.00    0.00      14.77    14.77    0.00   S     U
ID-PE-45337    1998  GOI                         Kecamatan Dev Fund                225.00     0.00    0.00    212.13     4.53    0.00  HS    S
ID-PE-39644    1998  GOI                         W. Java Basic Educ.               103.50     0.00    0.00     100.50    -1.83    0.00   S     S
ID-PE-36956    1998  GOI                         Safe Motherood                     42.50     0.00    6.00      34.99     5.65    0.00   S     S
ID-PE-36048    1998  GOI                         Coral Reef Mgm Rehab                6.90     0.00    0.00       6.40      .17    .04   S       S
ID-PE.3993     1998  GOI                         N. Sumatra Reg. Roads             234.00     0.00    0.00    234.00      4.67    0.00   S     U
ID-PE-37095    1998  GOI                         Maluku Reg. Dev                    16.30     0.00    0.00      15.65      .65    0.00   S     S
ID-PE-40061    1998  GOI                         BengkuluReg Dev                    20.50     0.00    0.00      19.90     1.14    0.00   S     S



Page 54                                                      ANNEX 10
Difference
Between expected   Last PSR
and actual    Supervision
Fiscal                                                               Original Amount in US$ Millions    disbursements    Rating /a
Project ID    Year          Borrower                       Purpose               IBRD       IDA Cancel.   Undisb.   Orig    Frm   Dev  Imp
Rev'd  Obj  Prog
ID-PE-48715    1998                             IIDP                                34.50     0.00    8.50     24.70      6.39    6.95   S     S
ID-PE-56230    1999                              SAL I(Policy Reform)            1,000.00     0.00    0.00    400.00  -600.00    0.00
ID-PE-36049    1999  GOI                         Early Child Developm               21.50     0.00    0.00     20.40    -1.10    0.00   S      S
ID-PE-3967     1999  GOI                         Fifth Health Project               44.70     0.00    0.00     43.70      -.55    0.00   S     S
Total                                                                            8,169.80     0.00  643.73   4,135.12  1,634.70  -90.14
Active Projects      Closed Projects            Total
Total Disbursed (lBRD and IDA):                      3,390.94             16,388.95              19,779.89
of which has been repaid:                              45.35               8,271.44              8,316.79
Total iiow held by IBRD and IDA:                     7,480.67              8,141.62              15,622.29
Amount sold :                                           0.00                  88.08                 88.08
Of which repaid:                                        0.00                 88.08                  88.08
Total Undisbursed:                                   4,135.12                 24.16              4,159.28
/a Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U
Lnsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory)



Page 55                                      ANNEX 10
STATEMENT OF IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of January 31, 1999
(In US$ Million)
FY                                       Committed                        Disbursed
Approval          Company         Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1980/87         Semen Andalas           6.48    10.02    0.00    7.49    6.48    10.02    0.00    7.49
1982/84/93      Saseka Finance          0.00      .38    0.00    0.00    0.00     .38     0.00    0.00
1988            Manulife                0.00      .32    0.00    0.00    0.00     .32     0.00    0.00
1989            PT Agro Muko             1.68    2.20    0.00    1.82    1.68    2.20     0.00    1.82
1989/91/94      PT Astra                0.00    12.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    12.16    0.00    0.00
1990/91/93/95/99   PT Indo-Rama        56.45    12.22    0.00   40.75   41.45    11.81    0.00   40.75
1991            LYON-MLF-Ibis           2.01     0.00    0.00    2.01    2.01    0.00     0.00    2.01
1991            PT Argo Pantes          9.38    13.00    0.00   11.36    9.38    13.00    0.00   11.36
1991            PT Indaci               0.00     0.00    1.83    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.44    0.00
1991            PT RIMBA                5.59      .60    0.00    1.67    5.59     .60     0.00    1.67
1991            SEAVI Indonesia         0.00     1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50     0.00    0.00
1992            PTSwadharma             17.11    0.00    0.00   21.28   17.11    0.00     0.00   21.28
1992/94/96      PT KIA Keramnik         17.19    9.12    0.00   57.13   17.19    8.99     0.00   57.13
1992/95         PT Viscose             30.53     0.00    0.00   37.83   30.53    0.00     0.00   37.83
1993            PTNusantara             3.18     0.00    0.00   10.38    3.18    0.00     0.00   10.38
1993            PT Samudera              1.09    5.00    0.00    2.91    1.09    5.00     0.00    2.91
1993/96         PTBBLDharmala          15.11     0.00    0.00   28.18   15.11    0.00     0.00   28.18
1994            KDLC Bali               3.36     1.14    0.00    0.00    3.36    1.14     0.00    0.00
1994            Prudential Asia         0.00     4.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.24     0.00    0.00
1994            PAMA (Indonesia)        0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1994            PT PAMA                 0.00      .71    0.00    0.00    0.00     .71     0.00    0.00
1994            PT Saripuri             5.78     0.00    0.00   12.00    5.78    0.00     0.00   12.00
1995            PT ABS Finance          0.00     1.31    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.31     0.00    0.00
1995            PT Bakrie Pipe          17.14    0.00    9.50    0.00   17.14    0.00     9.50    0.00
1995            PT Bunas Finance        5.54     0.00    0.00    1.45    5.54    0.00     0.00    1.45
1995            PT Grahawita            0.00     0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     5.00    0.00
1995            PT Hotel Santika        6.75     0.00    0.00    0.00    6.75    0.00     0.00    0.00
1995            PT KIA Serpih          15.00     6.35    0.00   49.50   15.00    6.24     0.00   49.50
1995            PTPaninFinance          5.14     1.93    0.00    6.00    5.14    1.93     0.00    6.00
1996            PT Dharmala            20.00     0.00    0.00   10.00   20.00    0.00     0.00   10.00
1996            PT Pramindo Ikat       25.00     8.18   25.00  300.00   25.00    3.69    25.00   70.00
1997            PT AdeS Alfmdo          10.29    3.53    0.00   19.71   10.29    3.53     0.00   19.71
1997            PTAlumindo              19.31    0.00    0.00   20.00   19.31    0.00     0.00   20.00
1997            PT Astra Dian           0.00     1.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.07     0.00    0.00
1997            PT Astra Graphia        0.00     2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00     0.00    0.00
1997            PTBankNISP              10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997            PT Berlian             22.00    20.00    0.00   68.00    2.27    16.65    0.00    7.00
1997            PT Kalimantan          20.00    15.00    0.00    6.00   15.56    15.00    0.00    4.67
1997            PT Karabha              0.00    10.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    10.43    0.00    0.00
1997            PT Sayap                10.00    0.00    0.00   20.00   10.00    0.00     0.00   20.00
1997            PT Wings                8.68     0.00    0.00   21.32    8.68    0.00     0.00   21.32
1999            PT Megaplast            11.50    2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:           381.29   145.47   41.33  756.79  330.62   131.92    40.94  464.46
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1995            PT Viscose II           0.00     5.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:    0.00     5.00    0.00    0.00



Page 56                                                       ANNEX 11
ANNEX 11: INDONESIA AT A GLANCE
East tower-
POVERTY and SOCIAl.                                           Asjat; middle,                                        . ......:  . ...
vindonwsia  iPacific:              Developmentodiamond'
Population,: midyear (mn/Ilf one)                    200.4      1 73     2,285.                 Life expectancy
GNP percapit(A/asnmethod, US$)                       1,110:    970        12.30
GNP (Atlasrmethod, r US$ billions)                   7Z1V       1,707     2,818
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Populatiom%                                            1.6        1.3       1.2     GNP                             Gross
Labor force (%)2.5                                                1.4       1.
per       --                  prmy
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)  0    ;:  :;t0 j44Xcapita                                 enrollment
Povertyj*  of 0p*c bla bown  wrda"&WfpoVa W) 1/         154 Is
Urban population (% of tot at po pultion)               37        32        42
Ufe expectancy at birth (yers)                          668       69        60
Infant mortalit .000 11v8 births) 4p7dtto  b ;                    38        38
Child malnutrition (% Of children under 5)              40    16                              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of                                        84 p:u/alt)  12 844 84
Illiteracy (% of population age  I)             I I6              17        19I
Gross primary enrollment (%:ofschd-agepuion)          114       1115      11-  In.  . _      donesia
tMale    0:9:       30:        it200090:4004i.0    t t :117    11        11it6          . Lower-middle-income group
Fermle                                   .            12       l          1
KEY ECONOMIiCRATIOS and LONG-E   TREIND
Economic ratios'
GOP (JSS bill/ons)                           3,       799       227.4i  214,6
Gross domestic lnvestmentiG13P,              21       20. I  30.           UV                       Trade
Exports of goodS and servicis/GP             24.5     202        25A8      28.1
Gross domesti savings/GOP                    27.      26,3.      30.~2     30.
Gross national savigsbp                .        .        .       2.
Current accountbalance/GIDP                     .                -34.5      12      Dmsi
Interest payierents/GOP                       1.2      3.0        2.        2 7     Savings                      ivsmn
Total debt/GO3.                                        37        56,       64.3~
Total debt srieeprs.                                             3,
Present valuf dbtJGDP                                            55
Present valueo detl~texports                    .        ..     206A8.idbens
196610*797:   1098        19497   1998-2
GDP                                   .7      7.8      8.0;       4 6                   ......ldie
GN4Pper capia                        .1       S.       5,8        3.6        .                Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       -.         ,        ,          ,
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997     -_________________
(O/o of GDP)                                                                        Growth rates of output and Investment(%
Agriculture                                  29.7     24.3       18.5      16.1    is
Industry                                     34.1     33.8       43.2      43.9     1
Manufacturing                               10.4     16.8      25.5      25.6      a
Services                                     36.3     41.9       40.3      40.1 
Private consumption                          63.5     62.6       62.3      62.2            92 9       4 9        6 9
General government consumption                9.4     11.1        7.6       6.9                _GD1    -.,-GDP
Imports of goods and services                21.5     20.5       26.4      29.2     _________________
1976486  1987-97      1996      1997
(average annual growth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and Imports (%/)
Agriculture                                   4.1      3.2        3.2       0.6    25
Industry                                      6.5     10.0       1 0.5      5.6    20
Manufacturing                               14.5     11.0      11.7       6.2    j
Services                                      8.7      7.9        7.2       5.3 
Private consumption                          10.0      7.9        7.4       7.5 
General government consumption                9.2      3.9        3.8       0.1           92   93   94   95   99   97
Gross domestic Investment                    10.8     10.6       11.8       4.2
Imports of goods and services                 7.3     11.2        9.6      18.2              -Exports   -..0-Imports
Gross national product                        6.2      7.9        7.5       5.1     -
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates. 1/ Poverty estimate Is from 1990.
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (in bold) compared with Its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 57                                                     ANNEX Ii
Indonesia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic pnces                             1976    I986      1996      1997     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                      5
Consumer prices                              ..    5.7         8.0      6.6    *
Implicit GDP deflator                      15.4    -0.2        9.0     12.0
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes curfent grants)                                             0
Current revenue                              ..    16.6       16.0     17.8            92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                       ,.    4.9         7.6      8.5            _ GDP deflator -.*.CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..       ..       1.0      3.4
TRADE
(US$ mflillions)                           1976    1986      1996      1997     Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                          ..  13,673    49,815   53,547    6,000
Fuel                                        ..  6,964    11,722   11,603    50,0D
Rubber                                      ..    752      1,894    1,505    40oo00
Manufactures                                ..  2,747    21,210   18,568
Total imports (cif)                          ..  12,760    42,929   41,680 3         _u**i
Food                                        ..    711      4,357    3,796    20,000
Fuel and energy                             ..  2,375      3,607    3,924    10,000
Capital goods                               ..   5,005    19,973   19558         o              -
91  92  93  94  9S  96  97
Export price index (1995=100)                ..      60
Import price index (1995=100)                ..      72         ..       ..                ExportS    sImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..     83
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ milli1ons)                            1976    1986      1996      1997     Current account balance to GDP ratio I%)
Exports of goods and services                 .        .. 58,317   61,716       o                t-      Z     r 
Imports of goods and services                 ..      ..   52,822   47,467          *
Resource balance                             *-       ..    5,495   14,248    *
Net income                                   ..       ..   -6,094
Net current transfers                        ..       ,.   -7,470         .     -2
Current account balance                      ..       ..   -8,069   -2,492
Financing items (net)                        ..       ,.   11,967   -7,529
Changes in net reserves                      ..       ..   -3,898   10,021    .4                             .
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)    1,508   4,051    18,251    16,587
Conversion rate (DEC, localtUS$)          415.0  1,282.6   2,342.3  2,909.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986      1996     1997
(US$ millions)                                                                  Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      14,010   42,916   129,033  137,896                    A: 9,991
IBRD                                      213    5,058    11,138    9,991            1G:18,300        8:715|
IDA                                       418     857       736      715
E: 2,970
Total debt service                         1,340    5,984    21,459   22,768
IBRD                                        4     636      2,249    1,848                                 0:5,149
IDA                                         2       12       26        26
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            59      136      190        ..                                    26,748
Official creditors                        839    1,016     -803      615
Private creditors                       1,314     528      6,971
Foreign direct investment                 344     258      7,960
Portfolio equity                            0       0      3,099         |         F: 76,023
World Bank program
Commitments                               564     982      1,194      810     A -IBRD                     E - Bilaterai
Disbursements                             257     828       905       899     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                        1     236      1,429    1,165    IC-IMF                       G -Short-term
Net flows                                 256     592      -523      -266
Interest payments                           6     411       846       709
Net transfers                             250      180    -1,370     -975
Development Economics                                                                                           9/17/98



;   4    ~~ffi\,   SovthChingSecl  ~~,/ > 0 r PHILIPPINES 9. : INDO;NESIA 0 ; S f:;00; tPHILIPPINES                                                               INDONESI
W   13   <  9;  i  A  f :  i  BRUe  gR  0  :  f s NCE HEANUARTERS 0 j 0 00 00 t00; t;; 0 - t:4 ., 0 OtANCE EAD0UA0ER
at 00000 ;Vv  9 <   ,~ ~~MALAYSIA         z                  2                                                                      Cl                         b,                        4      NATIONAL CAPFrAL:            ;0     < l0   0 00   0 0 0;
<   0  ;t  C-LAYSIA   >                      X                                        4       .       (                 -     Ibtl'ERNATIONALEOUN:ARIES    ;: i;0;00 ;; ;; a:;;; ;00 tr$EkA0IONAL OUNDARIE
0 }000 0 ;0; 0 0 0 % X M ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A T     9c I  M, A  N      A N                                                                                                S                                         1 NORTH4 IMPFClf  M N
- i t;; 00; ;;000 0 ; g 0 ;t  \ 1 os0      0:e                                                            r     aa     t    i       1XJo           C          25                      0-               k        ==/            9       ;        0 
t~~~ ~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                 C-,;XV E-.TuG;1     ;44soa       X)\   R j A  N&  !
~5  IAW TIMU                                                ORMTNG                                                           -0                                                                                                     A; Y '  odl}J aSe J / - 6! 
,   AIEE IAGE-         8,  kpQguiulRnEl 9                                                                                                 ){) 54Bi                                                    / .    
ti000'll  EAvitliE4I ;  00  0if 0     ;  \                                                                  :           2             1                           5a                         ,                 0 S          X;  6
= 0'E'  ANEATAN0                                                                                                                                                                                                                          26;;0      W  'w  n=  rf0e       
7 T E 0 E2"'iE-WiA;l02T  0 t: ;;   0 0 0 0 '3; )  4 0  X b 2 9  <     r.dgt                   .C<            0        3          ?~                                                    ; ;  d            
1    0 5 4B tEfANETBAR     Bo^nE.;n id n  psr    o      e,                2,
00tNtE>TeNi^TlMut0  0   IDIANOCAN                                                    fx       t    24   K        <       T!IOR                                                         ti   ;0 jX  ;0i;tftig;; -1
= t :   I4,NAA 0900v   io Sr Z UTRLAi :   ;   



