                    Document of
                  The World Bank




                                                 Report No: 28912

        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                (PPFB-P3570 SCL-44480)

                        ON A

                       LOAN

          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$31.5 MILLION

                       TO THE

               REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                       FOR A

CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                     May 7, 2004

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective May 5, 2004)

                         Currency Unit = Rupiah
                                  US$ 1 = 8,699 Rupiah

                               FISCAL YEAR
                             July 1 to   June 30

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADR        -      Alternative Dispute Resolution
BAPEPAM    -      Capital Market Supervisory Agency
BI         -      Bank Indonesia
FSPC       -      Financial Sector Policy Committee
IBRA       -      Indonesia Bank Restructuring Agency
ICR        -      Implementation Completion Report
IMF        -      International Monetary Fund
INDRA      -      Indonesia Debt Restructuring Agency
IPR        -      Intellectual Property Rights
JITF       -      Jakarta Initiative Task Force
LOI        -      Letter of Intent
MOU        -      Memorandum of Understanding
NMC        -      National Mediation Center
PIU        -      Project Implementation Unit
PMR        -      Project Management Report
PMU        -      Project Management Unit
PSDRT      -      Private Sector Debt Restructuring Team
QAG        -      Quality Assurance Group (of the World Bank)
SME        -      Small and Medium Enterprises
USAID      -      United States Agency for International Development



                       Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                     Country Director      Andrew D. Steer
                      Sector Manager       Khalid A. Mirza
      Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       W. Bernard Drum

                                         INDONESIA
      CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            23
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                            24

Project ID: P063732                                                  Project Name: ID-CORPORATE RESTRUCTRG
Team Leader: W. Bernard Drum                                         TL Unit: EASFP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 11, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: ID-CORPORATE RESTRUCTRG                                  L/C/TF Number: PPFB-P3570; SCL-44480
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General industry and trade sector (57%); Central government
                            administration (38%); Law and justice (5%)
                  Theme: Regulation and competition policy (P); Other financial and private
                            sector development (P); Macroeconomic management (S); State
                            enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (S); Legal institutions
                            for a market economy (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/22/1998                                     Effective: 07/08/1999                07/08/1999
     Appraisal: 12/09/1998                                         MTR: 01/31/2000                  06/09/2001
      Approval: 03/25/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2001                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Indonesia/JAKARTA INITIATIVE TASK FORCE (JITF)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Andrew D. Steer                                Dennis de Tray
Sector Manager:                 Khalid A. Mirza                                Hoon Mok Chung
Team Leader at ICR:             W. Bernard Drum                                Dale F. Gray
ICR Primary Author:             W. Bernard Drum


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: U                                U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Project was established to help Government accelerate the process of corporate restructuring. It was
focused on the shorter term corporate restructuring measures needed to address the crisis which had arisen
from the effects of rapid devaluations of the rupiah on corporations' ability to service their debts.
Indonesian corporations had high debt to equity ratios and many had also taken unhedged foreign currency
loans, even when their revenues were mainly in Indonesian rupiah. The purpose of the Project was to help
Indonesia resume private sector led growth, preserve and expand employment, and increase the standard of
living for all its citizens. These objectives were to be achieved by helping to restore the ability of
corporations to borrow and service their debts, and improve corporate governance.             Restructuring
corporations would also support ongoing reforms in the banking and non-banking financial sectors. The
project was focused on helping the Government implement key elements of the Jakarta Initiative. This
Initiative was intended to establish a voluntary framework for corporate and debt restructuring and to
remove legal, regulatory and administrative obstacles to the approval of restructuring deals agreed between
debtors and creditors, to strengthen the bankruptcy system and to achieve legal reforms to improve the
competitiveness and efficiency of the corporate sector.

The Project's objectives remained highly valid and unchanged throughout the implementation period. Rapid
restructuring of non-performing corporate loans was an essential measure for corporations to put their
relationships with their banks back on a sound footing, to obtain new finance for working capital and
investment, and to resume and continue their operations which had been disrupted as a result of the crisis.
The existence of a well functioning voluntary corporate debt restructuring mechanism and enabling legal
and regulatory framework was in line with international best practice and proved itself over the life of the
Project. The objectives to strengthen the bankruptcy system and support broader legal reforms were by
their nature longer term and were therefore not completely consistent with the shorter term focus of the
corporate restructuring components. However, the inclusion of these longer term objectives within the
Project, while keeping the primary focus of the Project on the shorter term objectives, was justified since it
was important, even while dealing with the immediate crisis, to support the first stages of the necessary
longer term institutional development processes.

3.2 Revised Objective:

Not applicable

3.3 Original Components:

1. Facilitation and advisory services to support corporate restructuring;  $17.2 million
2.    Streamlining and strengthening regulatory, legal and administrative processes for corporate
restructuring; $5.1 million
3. Training, operations and capacity building for JITF;   $3 million
4. Coordination between JITF and other institutions and operations;     $2.5 million
5.   Implementation support, operations and capacity building for Bank Indonesia, INDRA and the
Commercial Court;      $3.6 million

The basic rationale for the components included in the original Project design remained relevant throughout
the implementation period, despite simplifications in the institutional framework and improvements in the
incentive framework for restructuring that took place in 2000. Support for facilitation services remained a
critical component as did training support and capacity building for JITF. Support for streamlining the


                                                    - 2 -

legal, regulatory and administrative processes also proved to be very important, especially in the early
years of the Project, as did coordination between JITF and other institutions, and support for the
Commercial Court.      However this ICR confirms the findings in the Mid-Term Review Report, that
although the basic structure of the components was appropriate, the Project was designed to support an
overcomplex institutional framework. It is also clear in hindsight that the cost of assistance needed to
support JITF was overestimated. The Indonesian Debt Restructuring Agency (INDRA) was closed early in
the life of the Project and this sub-component was therefore no longer needed. Similarly Bank Indonesia
eventually played only a minimal role in the corporate restructuring process and this sub-component
therefore did not disburse.     At the same time the initial estimate that large amounts of expensive
international expertise would be needed to support the restructuring process proved to have been
inaccurate. A small number of expatriate advisors working with well qualified local staff proved to have
been enough for JITF to do its job more than adequately. These factors led to several partial loan
cancellations over the life of the Project reducing the total loan amount from $31.5 million to only $7.5
million, but no changes were required to the fundamental Project design.

3.4 Revised Components:

The above changes and reductions in scope were accommodated within the existing component design so
there were no formal changes to the components over the life of the Project.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Both this ICR and a QAG Quality at Entry report of March 2000 rate the Quality at Entry of this Project
as Unsatisfactory. As outlined in Section 4, JITF made very little progress in corporate restructuring during
the first year of the Project's life, despite the fundamentally sound concept of an out of court mediation
process to promote corporate debt restructuring. To a large extent this was not a fault of the design of the
Project per se but was more a consequence of the speed at which the Project was prepared. Both
Government and the Bank were under pressure to respond rapidly to the severe crisis and decisions had to
be made in a very uncertain environment. But it was also due to the institutional framework that had been
put in place just prior to the preparation of the Project. Important factors that should have influenced the
design of the incentive and institutional framework prior to the implementation of the Project had not been
given enough analysis or attention. In summary:

l a complex and uncoordinated institutional framework had been set up to manage the corporate
    restructuring process. One consequence of this was the initial lack of coordination or cooperation
    between key institutions and slow progress in those reforms to the legal and regulatory framework
    necessary to accelerate corporate debt restructuring.

l inadequate consideration was given to incentives for corporates and banks to enter and reach closure in
    debt restructuring negotiations. In the absence of incentives there was initially only very slow progress
    in corporate debt restructuring.

l inadequate attention was given during Project preparation to securing the commitment of the
    Government to the Project concept and design. This resulted during the first year of the Project's life in
    lack of support for JITF from Government or other institutions whose cooperation was a prerequisite
    for JITF to operate, and inadequate resources provided to JITF.




                                                     - 3 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

After JITF's unsatisfactory start, for reasons explained in other sections of this report, corrective action
was taken by the Government and the Bank in early 2000. JITF's performance in meeting its objectives
then improved rapidly. By the time JITF had finished its five year mandate in December 2003, it had
participated in the mediation of more than 117 individual corporate debt restructuring cases with a total
value of $29.7 billion. Of this total case load, 96 cases amounting to $20.6 billion were brought to
completion with memoranda of understanding signed by the negotiating parties, and of this $16.3 billion
had reached legal closure. The JITF mechanism therefore played an important role in the resolution of
around one third of the non-performing loans resulting from the financial crisis of 1997. This performance
far surpassed initial expectations. Progress on improving the regulatory and administrative obstacles to
corporate restructuring was also rapid following initiatives taken by Government with support from the
Bank in early 2000 and adopted by Government in its Letter of Intent to the IMF. By early 2001, no
substantial obstacles to corporate restructuring remained and an effective incentive framework was in
place. The results of JITF's work are presented in detail in JITF's final report (copy on file) which was
prepared in December 2003.

Taking a broader perspective on the contribution of this Project to corporate restructuring and also of
efforts to restructure the banking sector, there do remain caveats. These apply not only to JITF but also to
corporate restructuring implemented in Indonesia by IBRA and spontaneously outside of the JITF/IBRA
framework, and also to varying extents throughout those East Asian countries that experienced the 1997/98
financial crisis. Post crisis corporate restructuring in East Asia has focused mainly on the balance sheets
of affected corporations. While it can justifiably be argued that the immediate causes of the crisis were
indeed the vulnerability of corporations and banks because of corporate balance sheet problems such as
financing/cash flow currency mismatches, and high debt to equity ratios, the crisis exposed underlying
needs for operational restructuring within corporations and it is not clear to what extent these needs have
been met in the years that have elapsed since the crisis. However in assessing the outcomes of this Project,
we should bear in mind the fact that such operational changes were largely the responsibility of the
corporations themselves and their financiers, and in general beyond the mandate and powers of JITF which
focused on the voluntary and impartial mediation of debt restructuring negotiations. It should also be borne
in mind that not all JITF cases benefited from JITF's active mediation.          Some of them entered the
mechanism to benefit from the incentive structure, more than the mediation process. But these resolved
cases can still be justifiably included a success for the overall JITF framework.

Legal and judicial reform in general have proceeded only very slowly in Indonesia. Property rights still
remain difficult to enforce through the court system and sanctions on borrowers who refuse to negotiate
with their lenders still remain ineffective. The consensus is that it will take many years before substantive
progress is made in these areas and that "carrots" rather than "sticks" are the only effective incentives at
present in Indonesia. Progress in supporting the bankruptcy process under this Project was therefore very
slow, and initial expectations concerning the benefits to be achieved from this component proved to be over
optimistic. Despite this the support provided by this Project to the Commercial Court did have some
beneficial impact.

The overall outcome of the Project is rated as Satisfactory.




                                                       - 4 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1. Facilitation and Advisory Services to Support Corporate Restructuring ($5.1 million
expenditure of the original allocation of $17.2 million)

This component accounted for the largest expenditure under the Project and financed the international and
local specialist consultant expertise needed to support the mediation of corporate restructuring deals. The
quality of expertise hired was high. The direct outputs of this component were the deals effectively
mediated. As of December 2003 JITF had participated in completed debt restructurings amounting in
aggregate to $20.6 billion of which around 80 percent had reached legal closure. The remaining amount
($4.2 billion) was awaiting final closure following signing of the term sheets. Of the debts whose
restructuring was supported by JITF, 50 percent were rescheduled, 26 percent subject to debt for equity
conversions, 8 percent written off, 6 percent subject to debt for convertible bond conversions, 2 percent
paid in cash and the remaining 2 percent restructured by other means. Although some of these cases
entered the JITF framework primarily to take advantage of the incentives offered, rather than to avail
themselves of JITF's mediation capacity, with total non-performing corporate loans standing at around $60
billion just after the initial shock of the crisis in 1998, JITF was clearly a major player in the resolution of
the corporate debt crisis in Indonesia. In fact the total amount of debt mediated by JITF was around the
same as the amount which reached late stage resolution through IBRA. Full details on the evolution of
corporate indebtedness and its resolution are given in JITF's final report (on file). The outcome of this
component is rated as Highly Satisfactory

Component 2.         Streamlining the Regulatory, Legal and Administrative Processes for Corporate
Restructuring (zero expenditure, original allocation $5.1 million)

No Project expenditures were allocated to this component since it was originally intended to work with
institutions which closed soon after the Project became effective. However the regulatory enhancement
work required to be done under this component was successfully completed by JITF and the costs
associated with it included in expenditures under Component 3 - Support for JITF. Good progress was
made in overhauling and enhancing the regulatory framework for corporate restructuring, and most of this
work took place in 2000. Specifically a number of regulations were modified to provide incentives for
negotiating parties to corporate debt restructuring negotiations entering the JITF process. The most
important of these were provision of waivers of tax on any debt write-downs or debt for equity conversions
that were part of the JITF approved restructuring plans, regulatory forbearance from Bank Indonesia if the
deals resulted in domestic financial institutions exceeding the BI Legal Lending Limit, waivers of
requirements and procedures from the securities regulator BAPEPAM in cases where new shares were
issued as part of the restructuring deals, and temporary immunity for corporates from delisting by the
Jakarta and Surabaya stock exchanges during the debt renegotiation period. Negotiating parties report that
these incentives had a major beneficial impact on the outcome of negotiations that entered the JITF process.
So although expenditures allocated to this component strictly speaking were zero, the outcome of the
substantive activities planned and implemented under this component is rated as Highly Satisfactory

Component 3. Implementation Support and Capacity Building for JITF ($1.99 million expenditure of
the original allocation of $3 million)

This component financed the development and operation of JITF's human and physical capacity to mediate
debt and carry out its other functions. During the first year of JITF's existence this component hardly
disbursed at all. JITF was not provided with the resources to do its job and JITF staff even remained
unpaid for several months. This situation improved in late 1999 however. Since then this component has


                                                        - 5 -

financed the salaries and a series of training programs for JITF personnel including the Chief Operating
officer, local mediators, procurement, financial management and other administrative staff who have
worked in close partnership with the international mediators who are also based in JITF. This component
has also financed JITF's operating costs including public education and dissemination of JITF's activities.
As a result of support from the Bank, the JITF operates a state of the art financial management system
which qualified this Project as one of the few in the Bank to implement PMR based disbursements and has
served as a model for other Bank projects in Indonesia. The outcome of this component is rated as Highly
Satisfactory

Component 4. Coordination between the JITF and Other Institutions ($50,000 out of the original
allocation of $2.5 million)

With the simplification of the institutional framework in early 2000, the need for expenditures under this
component was reduced. However the simplification of the framework itself was a major output of this
component. In late 1999 the lack of progress in corporate debt restructuring had prompted the new
Government, the Bank and the IMF to review the design of the incentive and institutional framework,
through a series of consultations with major stakeholders. One outcome of this process was the new
incentives that were designed and put in place to promote debt restructuring (see component 2 above). The
other important outcome was an overhaul and simplification of the institutional framework for corporate
restructuring. A number of institutional measures were implemented in early 2000, aimed at improving
oversight of the corporate restructuring process and coordination between the JITF and other institutions
involved. The main elements of these changes were:

l Creation of the Financial Sector Policy Committee (FSPC), a high level ministerial committee with
    responsibility for overseeing the activities of both IBRA and the JITF and ensuring coordination
    between them

l referral of restructuring cases from FSPC to JITF for mediation


l adoption of time bound mediation procedures by JITF


l closing down of the Private Sector Debt Restructuring Team (PSDRT), to which JITF had previously
    reported, and of the currency hedging mechanism known as the Indonesian Debt Restructuring Agency
    (INDRA). Both of these mechanisms had proven to be ineffective.

These changes, in addition to the incentives adopted by JITF and described earlier, proved highly
successful in jump starting and sustaining the momentum of JITF's corporate debt mediation activities.
The outcome of this component is rated as Highly Satisfactory

Component 5. Implementation Support and Capacity Building, BI and INDRA ($220,000 out of the
original allocation of $3.5 million)

Within a year after Project start up it had become clear that BI had little role to play in corporate debt
restructuring and needed no help from the Project. The institutional framework was then simplified soon
after with the closure of the PSDRT and INDRA. With the closure of these institutions there was no longer
a need for a second PIU for the Project. The only activity which remained to be financed under this
component was support for development of the Commercial Court. Four activities in support of the
Commercial Court were funded by the Project: an organization study, a jurisdiction study, preparation of
intellectual property rights procedures, and mediation training for Commercial Court and Supreme Court


                                                    - 6 -

judges. The first three activities resulted in concrete recommendations and action plans and helped in the
preparation of the recently published Blueprint for Development of the Commercial Court. The fourth
helped increase the awareness of judges of the role of mediation as an alternative dispute resolution
mechanism as well as increased their skills in mediation. These activities in support of the Commercial
Court, while having a positive impact, were small in relation to the needs of the Court. The outcome of this
component is rated as Unsatisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

There is no doubt that this Project supported the creation of a highly effective institution in the JITF. It has
also provided a credible model for out of court voluntary mediation of corporate indebtedness that can be
replicated, either in Indonesia or elsewhere. The records of this Project, JITF activities, FSPC decrees,
other regulations issued and JITF mediation manuals and case studies are on the record and can be
retrieved rapidly for future use should the need arise. The individuals employed by JITF now have a high
degree of mediation and corporate restructuring expertise that could also be used again should the need
arise.

Although the Project did finance some activities that will contribute to the future development of the
Commercial Court in the medium term, the institutional development impact of the Project on the
Commercial Court itself up to now remains very small.

More details on the institutional development impact of the Project are included under the section on
sustainability.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Over the period that the Project was designed and implemented the country was faced with the aftermath of
the fall of the Suharto government and the rapid political changes which followed. At the same time the
East Asian financial crisis had severely reduced investor confidence in the economy and had also severely
impeded the functioning of the financial and corporate sectors. Corruption and poor governance in the
public sector had become endemic, as had poor corporate governance and related corporate sector problems
that had come to be known as "crony capitalism." Meanwhile the legal and judicial system had lost its
credibility as a means of enforcing contracts or property rights. Judges were underpaid and subject to
bribery to augment their incomes. The independence of the judiciary made it difficult for Government to
hold the courts accountable for their actions. All of these factors combined to create an overload on a new
government and overstretched public administration. Sticks were, and still are, largely ineffective and the
courts could not and still cannot be relied on. This was a very difficult environment in which to resolve a
severe systemic corporate and banking sector crisis.




                                                     - 7 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

There were, however, a number of factors subject to government control which impacted the Project
implementation and outcome. The Project suffered adversely in its first year from lack of commitment by
the post-Suharto transitional government.     The Project was prepared rapidly and approved by the Bank's
Board in March 1999. But it was July 1999 before the routine effectiveness conditions were met, and
September 1999 before formalities to enable disbursement were completed. The result was the lack of
financial or operating resources provided initially to the JITF in the first nine months of its existence. The
institutional framework for corporate restructuring was too complex and there were no incentives to
corporates or banks to conclude restructuring deals. However all of these deficiencies were rapidly
corrected early in 2000, following the appointment of the new Government in September 1999. The new
Minister responsible for overseeing IBRA and the JITF was highly proactive in taking corrective action,
streamlining the institutional and incentive framework and providing the resources and political support to
the JITF that it had lacked up to that time. This support remained solid and unwavering throughout the
remainder of the Project, until JITF closed in December 2003. Concerning the Commercial Court
component, despite the independence of the judiciary, there was scope for the Ministry of Justice to have
been more proactive than it was in supporting legal and judicial reform. There had been little involvement
of the Steering Committee of the Commercial Court in Project preparation. In the interests of rapid
processing of the loan the intention had been for this work to be done after Project implementation had
begun. But later, even after the Committee did get involved there was a lack of clarity over its reporting
relationship to Government, and the Committee itself was continually short of resources to support its
activities.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Most of the factors impeding JITF's performance in the first year of its life were largely outside its control.
Despite this, JITF's management and staff should be given credit for working hard and remaining in place
despite an extremely adverse policy and operating environment over which they had little influence. Then
the reforms to the institutional and incentive framework in the year 2000 were carried out with substantial
advice from JITF staff and consultants. After the necessary corrective measures were taken, the pace of
corporate debt restructuring through the JITF mechanism accelerated rapidly. This good performance by
JITF was sustained throughout the remaining period of the Project.

5.4 Costs and financing:

This Project was designed to disburse $31.5 million in World Bank loan funds but, following a series of
loan cancellations, largely achieved its objectives with a total amount disbursed of only $5.82 million to
date. These substantial cost savings were due to the following factors:

l an allocation was made for retroactive financing of project start up expenses but these funds were
    never used for this purpose

l the initial assumption that corporate restructuring expertise could only be obtained from internationally
    recognized consulting firms, which are very expensive, proved to be incorrect. While international
    consulting firms did indeed help in the early phases of JITF operations, lower cost individual
    international and local consultants with more than adequate competence quickly replaced them and
    provided JITF with all the outside expertise it needed for remainder of the Project

l other donors, notably USAID, provided several individual mediation specialists to JITF, reducing the




                                                     - 8 -

    need to use loan funds for this purpose

l the simplification of the institutional framework removed the need for assistance to support those
    institutions that closed early in the life of the Project such as INDRA and PSDRT and BI's role in the
    corporate restructuring process proved to be minor

l the Commercial Court component did not move ahead quickly enough to disburse all the funds which
    had been allocated to it


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability of JITF operations per se was never planned. JITF, like the Indonesian Bank Restructuring
Agency (IBRA) was intended to be a temporary institution that would close as soon as it had done its
restructuring job. The aim of JITF was to facilitate the voluntary restructuring of the corporate debts that
emerged during the crisis, while in the broader context longer term efforts were to be made to help get the
financial system back to work and reduce the likelihood of future financial crises. Sustainability was to be
achieved by working on banking sector reform and restructuring, broadening and deepening of the
non-banking financial markets, improving corporate governance and competition, promoting SME
development and improving the investment climate more generally including support for legal and judicial
reform. While this agenda remains unfinished, the Government with help from the Bank Group and others
has made substantial efforts and inroads in these areas over the last five years. Meanwhile the successful
restructuring of the debts of Indonesian corporations as a direct result of this Project has promoted
sustainability by enabling more than a hundred large corporations with thousands of employees to resume
and maintain their operations. Meanwhile the JITF model for voluntary out of court mediation of corporate
debt restructuring, which was developed under this Project and which has now proved itself, will provide a
guide to best practice if the need should arise again in Indonesia for such a mechanism. It can also be used
as a guide to best practice should similar crises arise in other countries.

The Project has also brought about an unplanned potential sustainability windfall. Through their corporate
debt mediation activities JITF staff have developed credibility over the years as practitioners in alternative
dispute resolution. After JITF closed in December 2003, several JITF case managers moved to a new
institution known as the National Mediation Center (NMC), which has emerged from JITF's mediation
activities. The NMC has begun providing support for out-of-court settlement of legal disputes before they
reach the court system, which remains overloaded and challenged in many ways. A Supreme Court
regulation of September 2003 now requires all commercial disputes to be first mediated prior to litigation
and NMC has been appointed as one of the main providers of training for judges under this regulation. It is
too early to say whether NMC will demonstrate long term viability, but up to April 2004, some 72 judges
had received mediation training from NMC and NMC had already begun mediation in a number of
commercial disputes and public dissemination of its mediation activities.       Another sustainable benefit
accruing from the Project is the development of good project management capacity within BAPEPAM, the
agency which housed the Project Management Unit (PMU).

Little sustainability can be attributed to the Commercial Court component of this Project. However the
studies implemented under this component did contribute to improving the Blue Print for Development of
the Commercial Court and a number of judges received training in mediation with finance from the Project




                                                      - 9 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The closure of the JITF in December 2003 and IBRA in February 2004, marked the end of government's
involvement in the post-crisis corporate restructuring process. One legacy of JITF however, the corporate
debt survey, deserves to continue. This high quality survey was prepared and issued on an approximately
quarterly basis by JITF over the last three years of its life. At present discussions are underway to assure
the continuity of this work since it has a high value in monitoring corporate sector performance and could
form part of an early warning system to help prevent future financial crises. Possible locations for this
work could be Bank Indonesia, BAPEPAM, or the Ministry of Finance.

It remains to be seen whether the recommendations of the Organization Study, Jurisdiction Study, and IPR
Procedures consultancy will be incorporated in future developments or activities as the functions and
responsibilities of the Commercial Court are expanded. The findings and recommendations of the studies
have contributed to the revision of the Blueprint, which identifies needs and specifies actions to be taken for
future development of the Commercial Court. The Organization Study consisted of a Workshop with
selected participants, one recommendation of which was a follow-up study to explore the issues in more
detail. This was not conducted within the Project but is one of the actions planned in the new Blueprint.
The IPR procedures are to be integrated with a second set of IPR procedures prepared independently by a
member of the Steering Committee. The final version will be presented to the Chief Justice for formal
adoption. The mediation training has provided the participating judges with understanding and skills which
are expected to be utilized extensively pursuant to the Supreme Court Regulation on Court Annexed
Mediation 2/2003, effective September 11, 2003, which requires all commercial disputes to first be
mediated, prior to litigated disposition.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Project was prepared and appraised very rapidly since both the Government and the Bank were under
considerable pressure to respond to the overwhelming magnitude and severity of the crisis. As a result
some key considerations in the design and preparation process were not given adequate attention. These
omissions contributed to the very slow start up and poor results from JITF in its first year of operation.
Although this ICR rates the quality at entry of the Project as unsatisfactory, the Bank preparation team can
be given credit for proactivity, and the original concept of voluntary out of court mediation of corporate
debt restructuring eventually proved to be very robust. But nevertheless, more attention could have been
given at the preparation stages to getting the support of key Government and other stakeholders, to
simplifying the overcomplex institutional framework for corporate restructuring, and to ensuring that an
adequate incentive framework for corporate restructuring was in place. Partially as a result of the haste in
preparation, the amount of loan resources required for the Project was overestimated. This is reflected in
the large difference between the original Project amount and the final amount after several partial loan
cancellations. Similarly there had been little time to work at the preparation stage with the Steering
Committee of the Commercial Court. In the interests of rapid processing, the intention was to leave the
development of this component until implementation began. However this omission paved the way for the
difficulties experienced in this component later. On the positive side the preparation team did hire a full
time project management and procurement specialist who was later attached full time to JITF. They also
initiated the preparation of a financial management system for the Project. Both these steps were far
sighted and laid the groundwork for smooth JITF operations later.




                                                    - 10 -

7.2 Supervision:

All the members of the team that took over the supervision of the Project soon after appraisal were based in
the field. This team deserves credit for proactivity in diagnosing the problems inherent in the corporate
restructuring process and in the Project design, and in taking the steps necessary to correct them. The team
took extraordinary measures to analyze and understand the problems, to prompt a reformulation and
enhancement to the institutional and incentive framework and to build government and stakeholder
ownership. These initiatives included convening a series of meetings in Washington and Jakarta aimed at
assessing the strengths and weaknesses of the program and working with partners to come up with the
necessary recommendations to enhance the process, the institutional framework and the incentive structure.
This process was described at length in the Project's Mid-term review report.                Throughout the
implementation period of the Project the supervision team provided the advisory and logistical support
needed for JITF to do its job, including technical, procurement and financial management support. Notably
the Bank provided a full time Project Management Advisor who gave high quality support to JITF. These
efforts are recognized in the Government's own evaluation report (Annex 8). The Bank's Lawyer and
Project Management Advisor worked closely with the secretary and coordinator of the Steering Committee
of the Commercial Court and met occasionally with the Steering Committee itself to provide guidance and
support in preparing the activities of this component for implementation. There was also a close and
effective working relationship between the IMF consultant and the Bank staff working with the Commercial
Court, even if the results of the Commercial Court support component were ultimately disappointing.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall the Bank's performance can be rated as satisfactory. The shortcomings in the preparation process
need to be acknowledged. But not all of the problems experienced in preparation were amenable to action
from the Bank. The pervasive financial crisis and rapid changes in Government at that time had created a
very difficult working environment. The supervision team quickly worked on correcting the problems and
on building stakeholder support and the eventual successful outcome of the Project owes a great deal to the
proactivity, constant attention and diligence of this supervision team.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The project was prepared soon after the crisis, during the term of the transitional administration which
followed the fall of the Suharto Government. Both the borrower's evaluation report (Annex 8) and the
Bank's Mid Term Review report refer to the lack of Government commitment at the preparation stage of
the Project. This resulted in a lack of resources, oversight and support for JITF and a lack of buy-in to the
corporate restructuring process that the JITF and other beneficiary institutions under the Project were
intended to support.     It also resulted in poor coordination between these institutions.       There was
considerable confusion during Project preparation as to who in Government would be responsible for
signing contracts and approving budgets, and lack of clarity on issues such as pay scales for consultants.
Government gave little attention to the preparation of the Commercial Court component of the Project
although the intention was to work on this later during Project implementation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The problems experienced during preparation extended into the first year of implementation. With lack of
support from above, Government officials were reluctant to sign contracts and approve expenditures. JITF
therefore had to do its job with few resources. And no action was taken to foster cooperation between JITF



                                                     - 11 -

and other institutions. This resulted in a poor level of cooperation initially between JITF and IBRA and
little progress on simplifying the regulatory framework for corporate restructuring. But following the
change of Government in late 1999, the new Minister responsible for JITF and IBRA gave corporate
restructuring a high priority and he focused on working with local stakeholders, the Bank and the IMF on
correcting the deficiencies in the corporate restructuring framework which had impeded JITF's operations.
The outcome of these initiatives was the enhanced corporate restructuring framework which included the
creation of the FSPC to which both IBRA and JITF reported, the closure of the redundant PSDRT and
INDRA, clarity in the respective roles of IBRA and JITF, the appointment of a new Chairman and Chief
Operating Officer to JITF, referrals by the FSPC of corporate restructuring cases to JITF for mediation,
the adoption of time-bound mediation procedures by JITF, and the design and implementation of a
comprehensive program of incentives to parties involved in restructuring negotiations through the JITF.
JITF quickly received the resources it had been denied up to that point and for the first time began to
deliver results. Political commitment to the enhanced corporate restructuring framework remained firm
until JITF closed in December 2003.         Also important was the good performance of the individuals
appointed from mid-1999 onwards to the positions of Project Manager and Treasurer within BAPEPAM.

With the closing of PSDRT at the end of the first year, the JITF PIU assumed the responsibility for
providing procurement, financial management, and reporting services for the Commercial Court
Component. The Project Manager continued to have the responsibility for approvals related to use of
Project funds and formal communication from Government to the Bank for this component as well as for
the JITF Component. There was some confusion, however, regarding authority to design and approve
activities for funding under the Commercial Court Component. It was clear in the amendment to the Loan
Agreement that JITF had the technical responsibility for the corporate restructuring program, but it was not
clear that the Steering Committee for the Commercial Court would have the responsibility for development
of Commercial Court activities under the Project. As a result the Project Manager justifiably questioned the
authority of the Steering Committee to request funding through the Project for their Commercial Court
development activities. This, coupled with the fact that the Coordinator of the Commercial Court
Component received little help from advisors in implementation of the Project, resulted in slow processing
of procurement for this component. Activities for this component were thus implemented late in the Project,
and some planned activities were never implemented.

Because of the late start and poor achievement in the first year of Project implementation, Government
extended the life of the Project from its original closing date of June 30, 2001, to December 31, 2003.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Despite the initial lack of support from the authorities and the initial deficiencies in the corporate
restructuring framework, the JITF Chief Operating Officer and staff made great efforts during the first year
of the Project's life to get the corporate restructuring program moving. As soon as support from above
materialized in early 2000, their efforts began to bear fruit, as shown by the results.          In frequent
discussions held by the Bank task team with the negotiating parties in the JITF mediation process, both
during project implementation and during the preparation of this ICR, the beneficiaries have repeatedly
commented on the excellent leadership provided by the new JITF Chairman and the Chief Operating
Officer, and the high quality of the JITF mediators.          The consensus is that the skills of the JITF
management and mediation team were a critical factor contributing to JITF's post-2000 success. Other key
successes of the JITF were the preparation of quarterly corporate debt surveys which began in late 2000,
and the highly successful efforts to negotiate with other Government bodies and institutions and agree on a
set of incentives that were later implemented to speed up the corporate restructuring process. Project
administration within JITF was very effective. Financial management and procurement functions were



                                                     - 12 -

performed     very    well    by   JITF   staff.   The     development    of  a   comprehensive     financial
management/procurement system and manual that took into account Bank and Government requirements,
combined with training for staff, contributed to a smooth and efficient financial management and
procurement operation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The initial uncertain commitment on the part of the borrower to the corporate restructuring process was
quickly transformed after the change in Government in 1999 into a proactive and steady commitment. The
excellent results of the JITF can be largely attributed to the full commitment and excellent performance of
the borrower from this point on. But in the case of the Commercial Court a full commitment by the
borrower was never in evidence. Overall borrower performance for this Project is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

l In Indonesia where the legal system has proven ineffective in enforcing the repayment of debt, the
    willingness of Government to step in and see to it that corporate restructuring takes place was critical.
    The changing performance of the JITF over the period of the Project and its ultimate success in
    achieving its mandate were directly related to the level of commitment shown by the Government.

l The success of the JITF process has demonstrated the usefulness of alternative dispute resolution
    (ADR) in Indonesia. Again this could be related to the shortcomings of the Indonesian legal system. If
    the Commercial Courts had done the job intended for them it is doubtful whether as many debtors and
    creditors would have experienced the benefits of ADR. Many debtors and creditors report that it would
    have been very difficult for so many parties to come to the table and reach agreement without the
    structured and impartial forum provided to them by the JITF mechanism.

l The voluntary nature of the JITF process did not work well until an adequate incentive framework had
    been created. In Indonesia where sanctions are difficult to implement, positive incentives or "carrots"
    proved much more effective than "sticks" in encouraging debtors and creditors to reach agreement.

l It is important for the Government to take the lead in formulating policies and designing mechanisms
    where fundamental changes such as those supported by this Project are planned. Political commitment
    needs to be demonstrated and cannot be assumed. The emergence of a "champion" on the Government
    side marked the turning point from failure to success for the JITF. The relatively poor performance of
    the Commercial Court component can be attributed largely to the absence of a high level champion not
    only at the outset but also throughout the implementation period.

l Even, and perhaps especially, in a crisis situation, sufficient time and attention need to be given to a
    rigorous project preparation process: researching, assessing options, discussing and getting full
    Government buy-in and designing effective project management structures, before going ahead with
    implementation. A lesson from this Project is that inadequate attention and time saved in Project
    preparation can be a false economy, even in a crisis situation, particularly where there are areas of
    institutional weakness. In this Project the time saved in preparation resulted in even longer delays in
    implementation, not only for the longer term institutional development aspects of the project but also
    for its crisis resolution aspects. Major efforts and time inputs were needed to resolve the problems and
    achieve the right mix of ingredients for success.

l Field based supervision was important in this project because of the rapidly evolving crisis situation. A




                                                      - 13 -

    supervision team based in World Bank headquarters could not have responded as rapidly to changing
    circumstances, or with the same degree of intensity as did this supervision team, which was based in
    the Bank's Jakarta Office.

l When new institutions are being created and are untested, such as the Commercial Court and the JITF,
    care should be taken to guard against making optimistic assumptions and projections concerning their
    likely effectiveness and performance. Start-up problems are likely to be the norm and much effort
    needs to be put into designing and providing the Project implementation and management
    arrangements. Sufficient back up support needs to be provided to ensure that they can function
    effectively. This Project demonstrated both successes (JITF) and failures (Commercial Court) in terms
    of measures taken to ensure institutional effectiveness.

l Preparation of a financial management/procurement manual at the outset of a project and training of
    PIU staff in its use can help ensure smooth operations and minimize problems with procurement,
    payments and disbursements.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
                          DEPARTEMEN KEUANGAN REPUBLIK INDONESIA
                                    BADAN PENGAWAS PASAR MODAL
                           PROYEK SATUAN TUGAS PRAKARSA JAKARTA


      Gedung Baru Departemen Keuangan RI Lt. 3-8                         Phone :         (021)       3483
                                                                                         4688
      Jalan Dr. Wahidin, Jakarta 10710                                   Fax     :       (021)       3483
                                                                                         4689


      Ref. No.: S- 32     /PSTPJ/2004                                                    28 April 2004

      W. Bernard Drum
      Task Team Leader/Task Manager
      World Bank Office, Jakarta
      Jakarta Stock Exchange Building
      Jl. Jend. Sudirman Kav. 52-53
      Jakarta 12190



      Subject:      Implementation Completion Report on Corporate Restructuring Technical Assistant
                    Project



      Dear Mr. Drum:

      Referring to the above subject, on behalf of the Indonesian Government, we herewith state that we
      have no further comments or objection to the report. In our view, the report has portrayed all
      activities and progress in a fair, objective, and transparent manner and therefore we accept it as it is.




                                                     - 14 -

      Should you need further assistance or queries please do not hesitate to contact me.




      Ir. Sugianto, MA
      Project Manager




      Cc.
      1.         Herwidayatmo, Chairman of Capital Market Supervisory Agency,
      2.         Bacelius Ruru, Chairman of Jakarta Initiative Task Force,
      3.         Samuel Tobing, Chief Operating Officer of Jakarta Initiative Task Force
      4.         Diani Sadia Wati, Director of Law and Human Right, Bappenas


(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information

Not applicable




                                                  - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix               Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Substantial increase in the number of                                  JITF performance was measured based
completed corporate restructuring                                      upon the dollar value of debt for which
agreements.                                                            memoranda of understanding (MOU) were
                                                                       signed. Progress was slow in the first year of
                                                                       JITF's life. However after early 2000 the JITF
                                                                       consistently met or exceeded its MOU
                                                                       restructuring targets and never failed to meet
                                                                       targets agreed with the IMF in the Letters of
                                                                       Intent.

                                                                       In December 2003 when the Project was
                                                                       completed, JITF had finalized the mediation
                                                                       of debt restructuring in the aggregate amount
                                                                       of $20.6 billion, or around one third of the
                                                                       total corporate loans that had become
                                                                       non-performing as a result of the crisis.

Rapid and simplified Government approval                               In early 2000 a set of "carrots and sticks"
process to finalize restructuring deals                                was designed and implemented to encourage
                                                                       debtors and creditors to move rapidly through
                                                                       the corporate restructuring process. The
                                                                       result was a rapid acceleration in deals
                                                                       completed, as evidenced by the regular
                                                                       surpassing of targets.

Coherent institutional framework to                                    In early 2000 the institutional framework for
accelerate corporate restructurings, while                             corporate debt restructuring was simplified
complementing financial sector reforms.                                and overhauled. The PSDRT and INDRA
                                                                       were closed. The Ministerial Financial Sector
                                                                       Policy Committee was created to oversee
                                                                       debt restructuring and ensure close
                                                                       coordination between IBRA and JITF. JITF's
                                                                       case load was assured by case referrals from
                                                                       the FSPC and JITF adopted a time bound
                                                                       mediation process. JITF and IBRA agreed
                                                                       on a successful formula for the allocation of
                                                                       cases to each.
Infrastructure to support corporate
restructuring activities.                                              Despite shortages of equipment and supplies
                                                                       in the first year of its life, JITF has since had
                                                                       adequate resources to do its job. The Bank's
                                                                       procurement and financial management
                                                                       procedures have been followed in exemplary
                                                                       manner and Project Administration and
                                                                       Management have been excellent.


Output Indicators:
                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix               Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                                    - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Component 1: Corporate Restructuring Assistance             17.20             5.11              30
Component 2: Regulatory, Legal and Administrative            5.10             0.00               0
Component 3: Implementation Support and Capacity             3.00             1.99              66
Building for JITF
Component 4: Coordination Framework                          2.50             0.05               2
Component 5: Implementation Support and Capacity             3.60             0.22               6
Building for BI and Commercial Court

Total Baseline Cost                                         31.40             7.37
 Physical Contingencies                                      3.60
                        Total Project Costs                 35.00             7.37
                  Total Financing Required                  35.00             7.37


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.74              0.00         0.44          0.00         1.18
                                  (0.74)           (0.00)      (0.28)          (0.00)       (1.02)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00        27.77          0.00         27.77
Consultants                       (0.00)           (0.00)      (25.79)         (0.00)      (25.79)
4. Training                       0.00              0.00         2.52          0.00         2.52
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.52)          (0.00)       (2.52)
5. Public Education               0.00              0.00         1.65          0.00         1.65
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.65)          (0.00)       (1.65)
6. Incremental Operating          0.00              0.00         1.56          0.00         1.56
Expenses                          (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.20)          (0.00)       (0.20)
   Total                          0.74              0.00        33.94          0.00         34.68
                                  (0.74)           (0.00)      (30.44)         (0.00)      (31.18)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00             0.00         0.50           0.00        0.50
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)



                                                - 17 -

   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              5.10             0.00              5.10
   Consultants                            (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.09)            (0.00)           (4.09)
   4. Training                             0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Public Education                     0.00               0.00              0.02             0.00              0.02
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.02)            (0.00)           (0.02)
   6. Incremental Operating                0.00               0.00              0.57             0.00              0.57
   Expenses                               (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.13)            (0.00)           (0.13)
       Total                               0.00               0.00              6.19             0.00              6.19
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.24)            (0.00)           (4.24)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Corporate Restructuring       15.48         1.72                     4.49         0.61                  29.0      35.5
Assistance
Regulatory, Legal and          4.59         0.51                     0.00         0.00                   0.0      0.0
Administrative
Implementation Support         2.70         0.30                     1.09         0.90                  40.4     300.0
and Capacity Building for
JITF
Coordination Framework         2.25         0.25                     0.04         0.01                   1.8      4.0
Implementation Support         3.24         0.36                     0.20         0.02                   6.2      5.6
and Capacity Building for
BI and Commercial Court
Contingencies                  3.24         0.36                                                         0.0      0.0




                                                          - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               10/1998                   1     Task Team Leader
                                         2     Private Sector Development
                                               Specialists

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               12/1998                   1     Task Team Leader
                                         1     Procurement Specialist
                                         1     Financial Management
                                               Specialist
               02/1999                   1     Lawyer

 Supervision

               10/17/2003                 1    Task Team Leader                     S               S
                                          1    Consultant - Project Adviser

 ICR
               03/2004                   1     Task Team Leader
                                         1     Consultant - Project Adviser
                                         1     Private Sector Analyst



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  21                            85
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        5                            20
  Supervision                                 47                           250
  ICR                                          6                            36
  Total                                       79                           391




                                               - 20 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Mid Term Report
Project Status Reports
JITF Final Report




                                      - 23 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report

                                          Republic Of Indonesia

                                    Government's Evaluation Report


                                    World Bank Loan No.4448 IND

                                      A. JITF COMPONENT

In accordance with the terms of its authorization and financing, the Jakarta Initiative Task Force ("JITF")
ceased operation as of December 31, 2003. In conjunction with the closure of its operations, the JITF has
prepared and hereby submits the attached final report (the "Final Report"), covering all aspects of its
operation since inception.

In addition to the executive summary contained in the Final Report, this summary has been prepared
specifically to aid the World Bank with respect to ICR completion. In accordance with the guidelines
submitted by the Bank, this summary highlights the findings of the Final Report with respect to three key
areas: (1) assessment of project objective, design, implementation and operation, (2) evaluation of
borrower's performance, and (3) evaluation of performance by the bank.

1.      Assessment of Project Objective, Design, Implementation and Operation

As discussed in the Final Report, the JITF has always been charged with the task of accelerating corporate
debt restructuring in post-crisis Indonesia, through the use of mediation and regulatory facilitation.
Throughout the course of the JITF's existence, it has stuck to this mission with some degree of success.
Moreover, during the course of its operation, despite periodic doubts regarding the effectiveness of
mediation in the absence of a workable court system, there was general agreement amongst debtors,
creditors and most commentators that this mission was justified in the face of the widespread damage
caused to the Indonesian corporate sector due to the Asian financial crisis.

Although its objectives have been sound, the Final Report notes that initial project design suffered from
misplaced assumptions regarding the existence of the Indonesian Commercial Court as a viable incentive to
force debtors to the negotiation table, as well as the level of cooperation with respect to financial sector
restructuring efforts. These misplaced assumptions led to an initial program design that lacked structure
and firm incentives for participation, as well as high level coordination with overall Indonesian
restructuring policy.

As discussed in greater detail in the Final Report, these deficiencies were, for the most part, remedied in
early-2000, with the introduction of rule-based mediation procedures, a defined incentive and sanction
program (including tax incentives for cooperative parties), and, perhaps most importantly, a
ministerial-level committee (the "FSPC") to oversee and coordinate, among other things, Indonesian
corporate restructuring policy.

These year-2000 revisions lead to a turnaround in JITF performance, with [US$ 27 billion] in distressed
debt being restructured through the program by the close of 2003.




                                                   - 24 -

2.       Evaluation of Borrower's own Performance

Although the JITF was successful in restructuring large amounts of distressed debt, meeting all IMF Letter
of Intent targets set for the program, it cannot be said that program success was unqualified. Even with the
incentives provided to the JITF, there remained a significant minority of matters where nothing short of
penal or confiscatory action by the government could persuade existing equity owners to part with control
over their corporate assets. Despite the possibility of action by the Indonesian Attorney General's Office as
a part of the written JITF mediation procedures, and despite the fact that a number of matters were referred
to the FSPC by the JITF as a result of bad behavior, no such penal action ever took place during the life of
the JITF.

As a result of this inaction, it remained a fact that the JITF, throughout its life, was forced to mediate
restructuring matters "at the margins," assisting with transactions where debtor goodwill was already in
existence.   Nevertheless, it must be reiterated that in undertaking this function, the JITF performed
exceedingly well, providing a forum (and basic transparency and predictability) against a backdrop of
judicial ineffectiveness. Despite often-voiced lender frustrations regarding the JITF's seeming inability to
force the hardest debtors into agreement, the fact remains that most of the major Indonesian restructuring
matters arising out of the Asian financial crisis were mediated, to a greater or lesser degree, by the JITF.

As indicated in the Final Report, there are two major lessons that can be carried from this experience.
First, in circumstances where conflict arises from a systemic failure (such as was the case within the
Indonesian corporate community following the Asian financial crisis), there is a clear role for alternative
dispute resolution, particularly where legal institutions are not up to the task of coping with such failure. It
should be reiterated that primary usefulness of the JITF during the course of its existence was as a
predictable, honest forum to allow market participants to resolve their differences in the face of a
dysfunctional legal system. In this respect the JITF performed its task admirably, in accordance with its
original mission and vision. Hundreds of companies with thousands of employees and billions of dollars in
debt took advantage of the mediation facilities offered by the JITF, thereby accelerating their return to
financial health for the good of themselves, as well as the overall Indonesian economy. In many, if not
most cases, these restructurings could not have been completed as fast or as easily (or arguably at all in
some cases) without the forum and guidance offered by the JITF.

The second lesson to be mentioned is that, in undertaking any public sector program such as the JITF
(touching on conflict resolution in the face of systemic collapse), public sector decisiveness  political will
 is of paramount importance. As discussed in the Final Report, until the Government of Indonesia took
the steps to manage the JITF properly, providing it with proper resources and oversight, JITF effectiveness
was marginal, at best. Moreover, as outlined above, even post-2000, virtually all of the challenges facing
the JITF arose from a failure to sanction uncooperative participants, a task outside the hands of the JITF
and heavily dependent on political will.

3.       Evaluation of the Performance of the Bank

Throughout the course of the JITF's existence, the World Bank has proven to be a reliable and supportive
partner. At no time did any JITF staff feel that the Bank ignored the program, or that it did not understand
the JITF's mission or operation. The Bank project management consultant assigned to the JITF was of
great benefit to the Program, not only with respect to World Bank loan requirements, but also with respect
to general operational issues. Similarly, the Bank staff member overseeing the project from the donor
perspective proved to be a constructive presence, demonstrating a clear understanding of the political and


                                                      - 25 -

commercial realities of the situation facing the JITF. At no time did the JITF staff feel that they were being
hectored or over-managed, nor did they feel that the program did not receive sufficient attention.

If any criticism at all can be leveled at the Bank, it is only that, in the early stages of the JITF's existence,
there was perhaps too little effort expended to socialize the need and role of the JITF with senior Indonesian
government officials.      This, however, is understandable, given that the program was conceived and
mandated by the IMF as part of its early letter of intent negotiations, was insisted upon as a part of the
Fund's rescue package in a time of general turmoil, and was thereafter given to the Bank to manage from a
funding perspective. Moreover, this early shortcoming was subsequently remedied over time, as Bank
senior staff worked to bring the JITF into full operational status.

As a whole, the good that came from the JITF program is, to a large degree, owed to the efforts of the
Bank.

4.      Summary.

As set forth above and in the Final Report, the JITF has proven to be a worthwhile undertaking, not only
because it assisted with the resolution of some US$ [27 billion] in distressed debt, but also, perhaps more
importantly, because it has demonstrated the usefulness of ADR in similar situations. In the future, it is
hoped that those facing crises similar to the one which struck Southeast Asia in the late 1990's can look to
the JITF and learn from its accomplishments and shortcomings. The basic lessons of the JITF -- the value
of ADR in the face of systemic economic collapse, and the need for political will to back any undertaking
dealing with such collapse -- are valuable in and of themselves, and should not be forgotten with the
passing of the program.

                              B.    COMERCIAL COURT COMPONENT

1.      Background

    The crisis triggered by the monetary collapse in the middle of 1997 had a negative impact on the
    national economy, and caused great hardship in business circles in the continuation of their business
    activities, including the fulfillment of their obligations to creditors.

    One of the efforts initiated by the Government in the context of economy recovery, is dispute settlement
    in effective, fair, fast and transparent manner, especially those disputes related to debtors and creditors.
    One of the legal instruments used as the basis for the settlement of debts has been the bankruptcy
    regulations, including regulations concerning the moratorium on debt repayment under Law Number 4
    of 1998 regarding Bankruptcy. In implementing Law Number 4 of 1998, the Government established
    in 1998 the Commercial Court which has functioned since the 1st of September 1998 at Central
    Jakarta District Court. Subsequently, after making several preparations in May 2000 the Government
    established additional Commercial Courts outside Jakarta, in Semarang, Surabaya, Ujung Pandang and
    Medan to resolve commercial problems throughout Indonesia. The Commercial Court is placed within
    the scope of the General Court Jurisdiction Court in the form of a special chamber.

    The Commercial Court's jurisdiction is limited to handle and to process petitions for declaration of
    bankruptcy and moratorium of the debt repayment. Since 2000, the jurisdiction of the Commercial
    Court has become wider because the Intellectual Property Right (IPR) Laws have appointed the
    Commercial Court as the institution that handle the Intellectual Property Right disputes. These laws
    include Law Number 32 of 2000 on Integrated Industrial Design, Law Number 31 of 2000 on Design
    Industry, Law Number 14 of 2001 on Patent, and Law Number 15 of 2001 on Trade Mark.



                                                       - 26 -

    In June 1998, to assist in preparation for the operating of the Commercial Court, the Government
    established the Steering Committee of the Commercial Court under KEP.216/KEP/6/1998. The
    Steering Committee of the Commercial Court consisted of representatives from various state
    institutions that were considered to have an interest in and a commitment to the development of the
    Commercial Court. These included representatives of the Supreme Court, the National Development
    Planning Agency, Ministry of Justice and Human Rights, and the National Law Commission. One of
    the main tasks of the Steering Committee of the Commercial Court is to develop education and training
    programs for Commercial Court judges, to monitor and supervise their implementation, and to prepare
    various implementing regulations for Law Number 4 of 1998 regarding Bankruptcy. In support of its
    discharge of these responsibilities, the Steering Committee of the Commercial Court received a loan
    from World Bank and developed an action plan (Blue Print) on the development of the new Indonesian
    Commercial Court.

    The goal of this project is to make the Commercial Court a modern court, which can become a model
    for other courts (Supreme Court, High Courts and lower Courts). To achieve this goal, a number of
    short-term and long-term activities are being undertaken as follows: (1) Increased Scope of the
    Commercial Court Jurisdiction; (2) Human Resources Development; (3) Organization Restructuring;
    (4) Improved Infrastructure and Facilities; and (5) Performance Assessment.

2.      List of Activities Planned to be Financed by the World Bank

    There were 6 (six) activities to be funded by the World Bank, namely:
1.      Commercial Court Jurisdiction. The main activity was to study issues and problems associated
with expanding the jurisdiction of the Commercial Court on settlement of disputes on commercial cases
2.      Commercial Court Procedures. The main activity, based on Intellectual Property Rights Laws, was
to produce a draft Administrative Procedures Manual of the Commercial Court regarding Intellectual
Property Rights (MOCCA on IPR).
3.      Judicial Organization. The main activity was to study issues and problems related to the
development of Commercial Court organization.
4.      Training of Supporting Staff. The main activity was to prepare training for supporting staffs, such
as Registrars, Bailiffs, Librarian, Computer/Internet Operators at the Commercial Court.
5.      Support for Legal Information Measures. The main activity was to develop an information system
by using web approach (containing information on the Commercial Court's decisions and annotation).
6.      Assessment of Asset Recovery Process Needs. The main activities were to study the Asset
Recovery process needs and to assess the role and potential of Commercial Courts as a means to recover
assets.

3.      Outputs and Impacts

    Out of six (6) activities listed above, only three (3) activities were implemented by the Steering
Committee of the Commercial Court. They were:
1.      Commercial Court Jurisdiction. The topic of the study was "Extension of the Commercial Court
Jurisdictional Competence". The study was conducted by a research team at the Research Institute at
Parahyangan Catholic University. June 2003.

        Impact: This work enriched the development of Commercial Court's Blueprint and Action Plan.
2.      Commercial Court Procedures. The topic of the study was "Research on Administrative Court
Procedures for the Commercial Court Concerning Intellectual Property Rights". The study was conducted
by the Center for Indonesian Law and Policy Studies (Pusat Studi Hukum dan Kebijakan - PSHK).
December 2002.



                                                    - 27 -

         Impact: This work increased certainty concerning the administrative procedures in handling
         intellectual property rights cases in the Commercial Court.
3.       Judicial Organization. Workshop on Judicial Organization of Commercial Court conducted by the
Center for Information and Economic Law Studies (CINLES), 28-29 November 2002.

         Impact: This work provided guidance for the future development of the Commercial Court's
         organization.

         Additional activities were carried out by The Steering Committee and funded by The World Bank
         but not included in the original plan
4.       Mediation Techniques. Training for Commercial Court Judges. The training was conducted in
Bogor, West Java, 18  20 November 2002

         Impact: This training gave a better understanding to the Commercial Court Judges regarding
         mediation processes.
5.       Basic Training on Mediation and Court Mediation. Training for Commercial Court Judges. The
training was conducted in Semarang, Central Java, 8  12 September 2003.

         Impact: This training gave a better understanding to the Commercial Court Judges regarding
         mediation processes.

4.       Limitations on the Impact of the Project Support

    The World Bank loan component was designed to assist the Steering Committee of the Commercial
Court in developing the Commercial Court by implementing the above activities. But because of time
constraints only 3 (three) of the original six activities were executed, to which was added the training of
judges in mediation. However, the Steering Committee of the Commercial Court has recently shown an
increasing commitment to the development of the Commercial Court. Much additional work remains to be
done to establish and ensure the progress of the Commercial Court, including the preparation and
publication of the Manual on Commercial Court Administration, the setting up of a Commercial Court
website, the examination of Commercial Court decisions by experts on insolvency law, the recruitment of
ad-hoc judges, the expansion of the Commercial Court's jurisdiction from being confined to insolvency
cases to also include intellectual property rights disputes.

5.       Lessons Learned and Conclusion

    The establishment of the Commercial Court made a significant contribution to reforming the judicial
system in general and to establishing other special courts within the framework of the public courts, namely
the Human Rights Court and in the near future, the Anticorruption Court. Based on recommendations of
the study funded by the Bank under this Project, the Steering Committee of the Commercial Court has also
published a more complete blueprint, namely, Blueprint and Action Plan for the Development of
Commercial Court as a revision of the 2001 Blueprint. Although it was difficult to execute all of the
activities under World Bank due to time constraints, on balance the World Bank loan was very beneficial in
contributing to the development of the Commercial Court in Indonesia.




                                                     - 28 -

- 29 -

