Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4448 IND
Loan Agreement
(Corporate Restructuring Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 16, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4448 IND 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 16, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Bank Indonesia” means the central bank of the Borrower, and any 
successor thereto. 
Page  2
(b)
“Corporate Restructuring Agreement” means a private restructuring 
agreement between a debtor and its creditors through the Jakarta Initiative. 
(c)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing April 1 
and ending March 31. 
(d)
“IBRA” means the Indonesian Bank Restructuring Agency, established and 
operating under Presidential Decree No. 27, dated January 26, 1998, and any successor 
thereto. 
(e)
“INDRA” means the Indonesian Debt Restructuring Agency, established and 
operating under Presidential Decree No. 95, dated July 2, 1998, and any successor 
thereto. 
(f)
“Jakarta Initiative” means the framework to facilitate and encourage 
voluntary corporate debt restructurings, announced by the Borrower on September 9, 
1998. 
(g)
“JITF” means the Jakarta Initiative Task Force established by the 
Borrower to oversee and support the process of corporate debt restructuring under the 
Jakarta Initiative, pursuant to the Decree, dated September 29, 1998, of the Chairman 
of the PSDRT, and any successor thereto. 
(h)
“JITF Project Implementation Unit” means the unit established by the 
Borrower under the JITF for the purpose of implementing Parts A, B and C of the 
Project, and maintained in accordance with Paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
(i)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf 
of the Bank on November 24, 1998 and on behalf of the Borrower on  December 3, 1998. 
(j)
“PSDRT” means the Indonesian Private-Sector Debt Restructuring Team 
established by the Borrower to facilitate corporate debt restructuring pursuant to 
Presidential Decree Number 172, dated September 24, 1998, and any successor thereto. 
(k)
“PSDRT Project Implementation Unit” means the unit established by the 
Borrower under the PSDRT for the purpose of implementing Parts D and E of the Project, 
and maintained in accordance with Paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirty 
one million five hundred thousand dollars ($31,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
Page  3
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
Page  4
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 
1999, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which: 
(i)
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
and projected 
sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period 
following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan during the period 
covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report; 
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; 
and 
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion  of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
Page  5
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later that 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V 
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely:  
(a)
the project manager referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 of this 
Agreement shall have been appointed with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; 
and  
(b)
the project implementation units, referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 
5 to this Agreement shall have been established with terms of reference and budgetary 
resources acceptable to the Bank and with competent staff in adequate numbers. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
C/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P.O. Box 1139
Jakarta  10710
Republic of Indonesia
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  6
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Darsjah 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Mark Baird
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants’
  24,400,000
100%
services and
training
(2)
Goods
     800,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 65% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Public education programs
   1,500,000
100%
(4)
Operating costs
     200,000
100%
(5)
Refunding of
   2,000,000
Amount due under
Project Preparation
Section 2.02 (c) of
Advance
   2,000,000
Amount due under 
Section 2.02(c) of 
this Agreement
(6)
Fee
     315,000
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
   2,285,000  
  __________
TOTAL
  31,500,000
  ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
Page  7
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
(c)
the term “public education programs” means expenditures for the carrying 
out of seminars and presentations and the preparation and dissemination of public 
information materials under Parts A and C of the Project; and  
(d)
the term “operating costs” means operating expenses of the JITF Project 
Implementation Unit and PSDRT Project Implementation Unit, including rental of office 
space and purchase of telecommunications and other office services and office 
consumables, but excluding staff salaries.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $3,000,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after September 5, 
1998. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts valued at 
less than $200,000 equivalent each; (ii) contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms valued at less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iii) contracts for the employment 
of individual consultants valued at less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (iv) 
incremental operating costs; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to accelerate private 
sector corporate restructuring in order to: (i) facilitate the resumption of growth in 
the private sector; (ii) restore the ability of corporations to borrow and service 
their debts; (iii) improve corporate governance; and (iv) support banking and 
financial sector reform.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Corporate Restructuring Assistance 
Establishment and operation by JITF of a program for the provision of 
assistance, including the services of accountants, lawyers and other experts, to 
private sector debtors and creditors to facilitate the exchange of information and the 
initiation and conclusion of Corporate Restructuring Agreements, with the provision of 
consultants’ services.
Part B:
Regulatory, Legal and Administrative Processes 
(1)
Conduct of a diagnostic review of approval processes required to implement a 
Corporate Restructuring Agreement; and  
(2)
design and carrying out of a program to streamline approval processes and other 
procedures to enable the Regulatory Facilitation Group within the JITF to facilitate 
all approvals required to implement a Corporate Restructuring Agreement, including the 
preparation of appropriate legislation; with the provision of consultants’ services.
Part C:
Implementation Support and Capacity Building for JITF 
Strengthening the capacity of JITF to implement the Jakarta Initiative, with the 
provision of consultants’ services, equipment and training.
Part D:
Coordination Framework 
Page  8
Design and establishment of a framework for linkages and coordination of 
corporate and financial sector restructuring and reform activities among JITF, IBRA, 
INDRA, PSDRT, Bank Indonesia and Ministry of Justice, with the provision of 
consultants’ services.
Part E:  
Implementation Support and Capacity Building for Bank Indonesia, INDRA 
and the 
Commercial Court of Indonesia. 
Strengthening the capacity of Bank Indonesia, INDRA, the Commercial Court of the 
Borrower and other relevant agencies of the Borrower to support the Jakarta 
Initiative, with the provision of consultants’ services, equipment and training. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement. 
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 
B.
Interest 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Page  9
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed 
Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum. 
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof. 
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
Page  10
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after October 15, 2014, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996,  September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations for prequalification submissions or to 
bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to 
the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract proposed to be awarded on the basis of the 
procedures set out in Section 1, Part C.1 of this Schedule 4, the proposed 
specifications, and the list of proposed suppliers from whom quotations are to be 
solicited, shall be submitted to the Bank for its review and comments.  
3.
Post Review
Page  11
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Quality-based Selection and Selection on the Basis of Consultants’ 
Qualifications Services for software development and establishment and maintenance of 
computer operations under Part C of the Project and for policy studies under and for 
Part D of the Project may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions either of paragraphs 3.1 through 
3.4 or of Paragraph 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
(i)
Legal services for the overall coordination of corporate 
restructuring 
advisory activities under Parts A and B of the 
Project, under a contract 
estimated to cost not more than 
$3,000,000 equivalent, and 
(ii)
legal services in connection with developing interim financing 
facilities 
under Part A of the Project for corporations 
undergoing restructuring, under a 
contract estimated to cost not 
more than $270,000 equivalent, may, with the 
Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Page  12
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 in each year, 
a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the preceding calendar quarter and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date;  
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about September 30, 1999, a mid-term report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project to that 
date, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date;
(d)
review with the Bank, promptly after submission, each such report 
referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
2.
The Borrower shall, by December 31 in each year, commencing December 31, 1999, 
(a) prepare and furnish to the Bank for its approval, an annual work plan for 
activities to be carried out under the Project during the following calendar year, and 
(b) thereafter implement said work plan. 
3.
The Borrower shall appoint, and retain until completion of the Project, (a) a 
project manager for the Project with qualifications and terms of reference acceptable 
to the Bank; and (b) a project implementation unit under the JITF with respect to 
Parts A, B and C of the Project and a project implementation unit under the PSDRT with 
respect to Parts D and E of the Project, in each case with terms of reference and 
budgetary resources acceptable to the Bank and with competent staff in adequate 
numbers.
4.
The Borrower shall, through JITF: 
(a)
carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with a time-bound program 
Page  13
and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank for the provision of advisory services 
to private sector debtors and creditors; 
(b)
carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with a time-bound program 
and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank for the review of the applicable 
approval process and the design and implementation of streamlined regulatory, legal 
and administrative approval processes for corporate restructuring; and 
(c)
carry out the training of selected officials of JITF under Part C of the 
Project in accordance with a training program acceptable to the Bank.  
5.
The Borrower shall, through PSDRT; 
(a)
carry out Part D of the Project in accordance with a time-bound program 
and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank for the establishment of the linkages 
and coordination among relevant agencies of the Borrower; and 
(b)
carry out the training of selected officials of Bank Indonesia, INDRA, 
the Commercial Courts of the Borrower and other agencies of the Borrower involved in 
corporate restructuring under Part E of the Project in accordance with a training 
program acceptable to the Bank.
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $6,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
Page  14
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
Page  15
