CIRCULATMNG Copy                   RETURN TO
;D BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK  REPOR?TS DZ-;(
Report No. 447-IN                                                                      WITHIN
Appraisal of the Rajasthan Canal                                                    ONE W^KS
Command Area Development Project
in India
July 1, 1974                                               FILE  COPY
Asia Projects Department
Irrigation and Area Development Division I
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00       =  Rupees (Rs) 8.00 2
Rs 1.00       =  US$0.125
US$1 million     Rs 8,000,000
Rs 1 million  =  US$125,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (n)                    =  3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)               =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                 = 2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (i3)             =  35.3 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (Mm3)  =  810 acre-feet
1 ton                          =  1,000 kilogram (kg)
= 2,205 pounds
1 megawatt (MW)                -  1,340 horsepower (hp)
/1   This has been taken as the short-term average exchange
rate.  The Indian Rupee is linked to the Pound Sterling
and recent rates with the United States Dollar have
varied between US$1.00 - Rs 7.60 and Rs 8.70 in recent
months.



ABBREVIATIONS
ARC        =  Agricultural Refinance Corporation
CAA        =  Command Area Authority
CAD&WU     =  Command Area Development and Water Utilization
CWPC       =  Central Water and Power Commission
FAO        =  Food and Agriculture Organization of the
United Nations
GOI        =  Government of India
GOR        =  Government of Rajasthan
ICAR       =  Indian Council on Agricultural Research
LS         =  Lump Sum
O&M        = Operation and Maintenance
PWD        = Public Works Department (Rajasthan)
RCP        - Rajasthan Canal Project
RMC        -  Rajasthan Main Canal
RLDC       -  Rajasthan Land Development Corporation
USBR       -  United States Bureau of Reclamation
UNDP       -  United Nations Development Program
VLW        =  Village Level Worker
vpd        =  Vehicles per day
GLOSSARY
Abadi         Village
Bajra      =  Pearl Millet
Bigha      =  Traditional land mieasure = 0.25 ha
Chak       -  Area served by a watercourse, about 120 ha
Gur           Unrefined (brown) sugar
Jowar      =  Sorghum
Kharif     =  Wet season (June to September)
Mandi      -  Town market
Meruba     =  Traditional land measure - 6.32 ha
Panchayat  - Village council
Patwari    - Village-level revenue or irrigation official
Rabi       -  Dry season (October to February)
Tal        -  Silty clay soils with strong saline/alkaline properties
FISCAL YEAR
GOI, GOR, and agencies   -  April 1 - March 31
ARC, RLDC, Cooperatives - July 1 - June 30
Commercial Banks         - January 1 - December 31






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...................... ......... i - iv
I.   INTRODUCTION ..............            .. .. ............... . .       1
II. BACKGROUND                             ... . 1
The Economy.................. *    ........... ..               1
Agriculture in India .                    .                     2
Agriculture in Rajasthan                     . .2
Project Formulation             .......... .. ........ .        3
III. THE PROJECT AREA.                                                        4
General...    4
Climate.... 5
Topography, Soils and Drainage             ....                 5
Farm Size and Land Tenure                   . ..    6
Town and Village Settlements.                                   6
Irrigation and Land Development              ....    6
Agricultural Production ...                                     7
Marketing and Transportation                 .... 7
Environment and Health ..                                       8
Present Problems .                 ..                           8
IV. THE PROJECT                        ......                               9
Project Works ..........          . .   .   .............       9
Water Supply, Demand and Quality ................         .   11
Engineering Design   .                   .12
Construction Methods ..            ... .13
Implementation Schedule                  .     ....13
Cost Estimates. . ....                                         13
Financing                  ....14
Procurement  .       .      ............................... .   15
Disbursements        .       ....... . .....    16
Accounts and Audits                 ....17
Environmental Effects of the Project    . . .                  17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. G. J. Tibor, W. G. Rodger, J. K. Lee, K. V. S. K. Nathan (IDA),
and Messrs. D. K. Jones, D. Benor, A. M. Jensen and W. L. McCaig (Consult-
ants). Messrs. G. von Gontard, R. L. P. Harris and P. W. Whitford also
contributed to the report.



-2-
Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...........................  18
Project Implementation   .            .18
Rajasthan Land Development Corporation                 19
Financing of On-Farm Development Works                  19
Agricultural Supporting Services.                       20
Agricultural Credit             ......... ....... .    22
Operation and Maintenance                              22
Cost Recovery ...       .. .       .... ..23
Monitoring of Project Benefits .............. #.... 23
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES
AND FARMERS' INCOME.       .. ................. O.-*    ......... 24
Production......... *....  24
Market Prospects           ...24
Prices..     25
Famers' Income ...         ........ .... . ... 25
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION        .     ... .                25
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATIONS.          .........   26
ANNEXES
1.   Climatic Data
2.   Topography and Soils
3.   Project Wcrks
4.   Water Supply, Demand and Quality
5.   Colonization
6.   Cost Estimates
7.   Equipment Requirements
8.   Scheduling of Expenditure and Disbursements
9.   Organization, Management and Project Financing
10.   Rajasthan Land Development Corporation
11.   Operation and Maintenance
12.   Agricultural Supporting Services
13.   Agricultural Production
14.   Marketing, Processing, Storage and Prices
15.   Farm Budgets
16.   Economic Analysis



-3-
CHARTS
8638      Implementation Schedule
8599      Organization Chart - State Level
8640      Organization Chart - Command Area Authority
8639      Organization Chart - Irrigation, Land Development, Afforestation
8641      Project Activity Diagram
MAPS
10883     Location Map
10884     Project Area
10885     On-Farm Development in Chak 23 KD(A)
REFERENCES
1.        "Report to the Government of Rajasthan on Land Leveling Works",
William L. McCaig, February 1974.
2.        "Report on Afforestation and Sand Dune Stabilization",
A. M. Jensen, November 1973.
3.        "Report to Government of Rajasthan on Rajasthan Canal Command
Area Development Project Extension Service", Daniel Benor,
January 1974.
4.        "Rajasthan Canal and Chambal Command Area Development
Projects: Supplementary Note on Agricultural Credit",
FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programi, October 1973.






INDLA
APPRAISAL OF THE
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The proposed project, together with the Chambal Command Area Devel-
opment Project (Rajasthan), would be the first in India ror command area
development - the provision of all the necessary physical works and agricul-
tural supporting services to enable full realization of the benefits of
existing irrigation projects. Such projects have been given high priority
in India's development planning and further projects of this kind are being
prepared for Bank Group consideration.
ii.       India's development program for the next five years gives greater
emphasis than previous plans to alleviating poverty and creating employment,
particularly in the agricultural sector, which engages 70% of the population.
Despite the impressive results of the green revolution in some areas, overall
growth in agricultural output has barely kept pace with population increases.
The expansion and improvement of irrigation development must play a major
part in future food production.
iii.      Over one-third of Rajasthan, one of the larger but more sparsely
populated states of India, is desert, and irrigation development is there-
fore of high priority. The northwest desert area has been the scene of large
irrigation developments in the past. Under the post-World War II interstate
water agreements, corollary to the Indus Water Treaty, Rajasthan was allo-
cated 9,900 Mm3 of water annually for the 1.15 million ha Rajasthan Canal
Project (RCP) as its share of the Beas and Ravi River waters. Work on
diversion to the RCP commenced in the early 1950's and by 1961 the Rajasthan
Main Canal (fed by a 214 km feeder canal from Harike Barrage on the Sutlej
River) had reached the upper parts of the command area and irrigation gradually
commenced. By the end of 1973, the Main Canal and its distributary system
(down to about 150 ha turnout level) commanded nearly the whole of the RCP
Stage I area of 540,000 ha. However, land effectively irrigated is probably
no more than 30% of the commanded area, due to the lack of assured year-round
water supplies, the heavy loss of water through the unlined distributary canals
and watercourses, and to the poor state of preparation of the virgin desert
lands (undulating dunes and saline flats). Consequently, permanent settle-
ment of the area by previously landless farmers is also lagging seriously
behind projected plans. With completion of the main regulating storage dam
at Pong on the Beas River in 1974, perennial irrigation supplies will be
available to the RCP for the first time.
iv.       The proposed project covers 200,000 ha of irrigable land in two
blocks within Stage I of RCP. It would integrate the activities of all
the development agencies engaged in the area, complete all the necessary



- ii -
infrastructure, on-farm land development works and permanent settlement,
and provide greatly enhanced agricultural supporting services.
v.        The proposed project would include:  the lining of 915 km of
distributary canals; the construction of 431 km of roads and water supplies
for 100 villages; pasture development and afforestation of 35,000 ha of
high shifting sand dune lands surrounding the irrigated area; and provision
of 46,000 nutrient tons of various fertilizers to build up and restore soil
fertility. On-farm development works under the project include lining of
5,800 km of watercourses, land shaping of 12,000 ha and reclamation
of 17,000 ha of sodic soils. The project would assist the farmers to com-
plete a further 26,000 ha of land shaping and 17,000 ha of soils reclamation
and to improve their on-farm field channels.
vi.       Project implementation would take six years and would use labor-
intensive methods, wherever feasible. The use of heavy machinery would be
mainly confined to land shaping.
vii.      The process of settling about 33,000 families on 6.32 ha farms
in the project area is expected to be completed by mid-1974. These settlers
are drawn from landless agricultural laborers in adjacent agricultural areas
and from temporary tenants dwelling in the area. They would purchase their
farms from the GOR over a 15-year period with an interest free loan.
viii.     Total project costs are estimated at US$174 million with a foreign
exchange compontent of US$47.1 million (27%). The proposed IDA Credit of
US$83.0 million would finance the foreign exchange costs of the project and
28% of the local costs. The Government of India (GOI) would relend the
proceeds of the Credit (except disbursements for on-farm development and
fertilizer) to the Government of Rajasthan (GOR) in accordance with its
standard arrangements for State development projects. Fertilizer purchases
by GOI would be financed directly by the Credit. On-farm works would be
financed mainly by the farmers, using loans from GOl and the commercial
banks. These banks would be refinanced 80% by the Agricultural Refinance
Corporation of the GOI. All funds for on-farm development would be chan-
neled through a new agency, the Rajasthan Land Development Corporation
(RLDC), to be set up by GOR.
ix.       Out of US$10.2 million worth of vehicles and equipment to be
procured under the project, US$6.3 million would be subject to international
competitive bidding and US$1.0 million, which for reasons of efficiency
are not suitable for international tendering, would be purchased through
normal GOR procurement procedures. The balance of US$2.9 million would be
reserved for local procurement and would not be eligible for financing
under the Credit. Fertilizer procurement under the project would be combined
with the regular All-India procurement. Because of present world shortages,
an "international shopping" procedure would be used. All fertilizer to be
financed under the Credit would be procured in the first year of project
implementation. It would not be practicable to group the civil works under
the project (estimated to cost US$86.3 million, including construction
materials and machinery supplied by the project authorities) into contracts



- iii -
large enough to be of interest to international contractors. These works
would be carried out over a period of six years by small, mainly annual
contracts to be advertised locally or, where this is not practicable, by
force account.
x.        In order to ensure full cooperation between all the departments
concerned with command area development, GOR is setting up a Command Area
Development and Water Utilization Department at State level and a Rajasthan
Canal Command Area Authority (CAA) to manage the project. The CAA would be
headed by an Area Development Commissioner and would have four departments:
Irrigation and Land Development, Agriculture, Revenue, and Colonization and
Cooperatives. The Commissioner would have coordinating authority over the
remaining project activities, roads, afforestation and village water supplies.
xi.       On-farm development, within a tertiary command area, would be com-
pulsory.  RLDC would prepare loan applications for these farmers eligible
for commercial credit. Other farmers would receive special loans from RLDC,
using GOI funds. Subsidies would be available for several categories of
disadvantaged farmers.
xii.      The extension service is being reorganized and will make use of
progressive farmers as part-time extension workers. Insitutional credit
would grow under the project, mainly through an expansion of the role of
the commercial banks. Improvements in the methods of irrigation rotation
would be introduced under the project and irrigation charges would be raised
to cover the full cost of operating and maintaining the project works. A
special Government committee would be established to recommend arrangements
for the recovery of project costs, taking into account the farmers' incentives
and capacity to pay.
xiii.     Agricultural production in the project area is based largely on
cotton and wheat, with millet, pulses, gram, fodder, and mustard as secondary
crops. Increased production under the proposed project would result from
an increased cropping intensity (from 90% at present to 130%), from accel-
erating land development and from increased crop yields, the latter resulting
from the introduction of better practices and increased inputs, including
assured on-farm water deliveries. Production of most crops would more than
double, with wheat and cotton achieving particularly rapid growth. Marketing
prospects for all the crops are good. Processing, storage and marketing
facilities are generally satisfactory for the present levels of production.
GOR has investments planned in all these areas which should be adequate for
projected conditions at full project development.
xiv.      Farm income would on the average rise from Rs 5,300/year to
Rs 16,500 in ten years and repayment of project charges, including com-
mercial bank credit, would be within the farmers' repayment capability,
provided that up to two-years' grace were given on the repayment of prin-
cipal.
xv.       The project would provide the equivalent of 70,000 additional jobs
and would lead to an increase in the net value of production of Rs 255 mil-
lion (US$32 million) per year in ten years' time and Rb 350 million  jS$44



- iv -
million) at full development in Year 21. The economic rate of return is
estimated at 25%, using a 25-year evaluation period and shadow prices for
farm labor, which are about 10% above the normal market wage rate at peak
seasons. The rate of return is rather sensitive to the pace of agricultural
development, which emphasizes the need for an effective extension service.
xvi.      The project would be suitable for an IDA Credit of US$83.0 million.
The borrower would be India.



EiDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) has requested IDA assistance in
financing the construction of the Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development
Project, in the State of Rajasthan. The project would include the comple-
tion and modernization of the irrigation network in the project area, on-farm
development, roads, afforestation, village water supplies and agricultural
supporting services. This project and the recently approved Chambal
Command Area Development Project, would be the first Bank Group invest-
ments in Rajasthan, apart from components of various nationwide projects.
The two projects are also the first Bank Group assistance to comnand area
development 1/ in India. The Bank Group has previously assisted nine irri-
gation, drainage and flood control projects in India, as well as ten agri-
cultural credit and a number of other agricultural projects.
1.02      The soils and water management aspects of irrigation development
in the Rajasthan Canal Project (RCP) area were studied by a UNDP/FAO team
between 1966 and 1971. Many of the results obtained in that study, parti-
cularly the soil surveys, have been used in formulating the project. The
project was prepared by the Government of Rajasthan (GOR) in a feasibility
report dated May 1971. Further preparation was assisted by a team from the
FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program, resulting in a report (No. 29/73 IND 17) dated
29 September, 1973. The present report is based on the findings of an
appraisal mission, comprising Messrs. G.J. Tibor, W.G. Rodger, J.K. Lee,
K.V.S.K. Nathan (IDA), and Messrs. D.K. Jones, D. Benor and W.L. McCaig
(Consultants), which visited India in November, 1973.
II. BACKGROUND
The Economy
2.01      India covers some 3,270,000 km , of which 43% is arable and about
9% is under some kind of irrigation. India's population is about 580 mil-
lion, with a recent growth rate of 2.2%. Population growth and a relatively
poor natural resource base have imposed sharp limitations on India's econom-
ic growth. However, since the inception of economic development planning in
1/   "Command Area Development" means the provision of all necessary physi-
cal works and agricultural supporting services to enable realization
of the full productive potential of an existing irrigation project.



- 2 -
1950 national income has grown at nearly 4% per year, compared with an
average growth rate of less than 1% during the preceding 50 years. In
1970. per capita GNP was about US$110.
2.02      GOI's development program for the next five years aims at an
econemic growth rate of 5.5%, but with greater emphasis than in previous
plan- on alleviating poverty and creating employment.  This would be accom-
plished by promoting labor-intensive techniques, raising the productivity
of subsistence farmers (especially disadvantaged ones), a national program
to supply the minimum needs of the poorest segments of the population, and
tax ueasures to curb consumption by the richer classes. However, these
objectives are likely to be difficult to attain.
Agriculture in India
2.03      About 70% of India's population are engaged in agriculture and
the sector accounts for about 45% of GNP. Agriculture also provides the
major part of India's exports, the most important commodities being jute,
tea, leather, cotton goods and cashews. Since 1965, India has changed the
emphasis of its development efforts from industry to agriculture and has
given priority to accelerating the spread of modern technology, by increasing
the availability of high-yielding seeds and fertilizer, expanding irrigation
and developing modern credit institutions. Yet, despite the impressive
results of the green revolution in some areas since 1967, the overall
growth rate in agricultural output in the ten;-year period ending in 1972,
was only 3%, which was little more than population growth and slightly
lower than the growth rate in the previous decade. However, these figures
conceal an important structural change: growth in production is now coming
primarily from yield increases rather than from increases in area cropped,
as has traditionally been the case.
2.04      The green revolution has mainly affected wheat and its effects
have been concentrated in the northwestern states which are well endowed
with irrigation facilities. The spread of high-yielding rice varieties
has been disappointingly slow, due to inadequate water control, low levels
of fertilizer application and, for the last two years, a shortage of fer-
tilizer. Other crops have had stagnant or low growth rates.
2.05      Despite the progress made in food production, India's agriculture
still depends heavily on the vagaries of the weather, as shown by the 1972/3
drought when reserve stocks were seriously reduced and large amounts of
grain had to be imported. A major factor in reducing India's dependence on
the weather will be the expansion of irrigation and the more effective use
of existing irrigation potential.
Agriculure in RaJ as than
2.06      Rajasthan is the second-largest state in India, with an area of
34 million ha (Map 10883), but it has one of the smaller populations, about
27 million, of whom 80% are rural. The northwestern part of the state is



-3-
arid, with rainfall less than 300 mm, and crains towards the Indus River.
The southwestern part, with rainfalls of 8C0 to 950 mm, can be classed as
semi-arid and drains mostly to the Chambal River and thence to the Ganga
system.
2.07      About 37% (13 million ha) of the state is desert and is largely
uncultivated. Forests cover 1 million ha and 14.3 million ha are under
rainfed crops, mainly millet, sorghum and gram (chickpea).  About 2.1 mil-
lion ha are irrigated, 55% from dug wells, 35% from public canal systems
and 10% from tanks. Irrigated crops include: cotton, wheat, paddy, sugar-
cane, millet, pulses, oilseeds, fruit and vegetables.
2.08      Current development planning in Rajasthan is designed to achieve
an overall growth rate of 5% in the state domestic product, including a
4.4% growth rate in the agricultural sector. Public investment of Rs 6,350
million is envisaged, of which 40% would go to irrigation projects and a
further 10% to other agricultural projects. Major projects in the agricul-
tural sector tc be financed in the next five years include the Chambal and
Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Projects, the Drought Prone Area
Program (all of which are proposed for Bank Group assistance), the Crash
Scheme for Rural Employment, soil conservation, and animal husbandry. The
bulk of funds in the irrigation budget would be for the Rajasthan Canal
Project, Stage II, for which considerable GOI assistance is available.
This program also includes assistance for cooperatives and community devel-
opment.
Project Formulation
2.09      Concern has been growing in India for the past several years over
the inadequate utilization of irrigation systems. Between 1950 and 1972,
10 million ha of new land was provided with irrigation facilities but only
80% of this potential is being utilized and much of that in an inefficient
manner. The reasons for the underutilization of existing facilities, which
is becoming a serious constraint on India's ability to meet its food pro-
duction needs, are discussed at length in the "Report of the Irrigation
Commission 1972" and include: a lack of watercourses, drains, and roads,
inadequate land leveling, insufficient agricultural supporting services,
and a lack of administrative coordination. It has been unofficially esti-
mated that some 10 million ha of recently completed irrigation projects
require additional investments of between US$200 and US$500 per ha before
they can become fully productive. As a result, a Command Area Development
(CAD) Department has been set up within the GOI Ministry of Food and
Agriculture and a list of high priority projects has been drawn up.
2.10      Several IDA agricultural credit projects presently provide fi-
nancing through commercial credit institutions for the construction of
on-farm works. Responsibility for carrying out the works under these
projects rests with the farmers who, with few exceptions, have been unable
to organize themselves to construct and maintain the necessary works. As



-4-
a result, the implementation rate of on-farm works under these and other
major irrigation projects in India has been disappointing. In addition
these schemes make no provision for the concurrent improvement and expansion
of the irrigation, drainage and road networks, which is essential for the
efficient use of available water. An acceleration in the rate of imple-
mentation of on-farm works will require a transfer of responsibility for
their execution to a project authority. It will also require legislation
under which on-farm works can be associated with minor realignment of
farm boundaries and with execution of the work no longer being left to
the discretion of individual farmers, although they would be expected to
repay the cost of the works. GOI has agreed in principle to restrict
assistance for CAD projects to States which agree to implement them along
these lines.
2.11      At the request of GOI, a Bank Group Irrigation Reconnaissance
Hission visited India in November, 1972, to review the need for CAD and
its suitability for Bank Group assistance. The mission confirmed the
urgent need for CAD and identified several projects as having high
prio-ity for investment. Accordingly, the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
was esked to assist in the further preparation of the Chambal and Rajasthan
Canal Command Area Development Projects. At present, two further projects
are under preparation for Bank Group consideration.
2.12      India's development program for the next five years emphasizes
command area development and GOI and the States have discussed the kind
of administrative and financial arrangements needed to carry out such
projects. In general, the approach will be to achieve integrated devel-
opment of the land, water and human resources of irrigated areas through
a unified project management. Details of this approach, for the present
project, are described in Chapter V.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project, located in the northern desert region of Rajasthan
State, is part of Stage I of the on-going Rajasthan Canal Project (RCP).
The oroject area borders Pakistan on the west, Punjab State on the east,
the irrigation projects of Gang and Bhakra in the north (Map 10883), and
lies in Ganganagar District of Bikaner administrative division. Before
the introduction of irrigation in 1962 the whole area was sparsely popu-
lated by nomads. The Rajasthan desert is among the harshest environments
in India, with rolling sand dunes and large expanses of saline soils. In-
tense heat and violent sandstorms make the area difficult for any form of
permanent settlement, without water for irrigation development, large scale
afforestation and the leaching of the saline soils. The RCP, one of India's
largest irrigation projects, was conceived to reclaim this desert. The
Rajasthan Canal Board was set up by GOR to implement the project.



- 5-
3.02      Wat:er from the Sutlej River, an eastern tributary of the Indus
System, is conveyed from the Harike Barrage to the project area through a
214 km long feeder canal. The 472 km Rajasthan Main Canal (RMC), with a
carrying capacity of some 530 m3/s at its head, will supply water to the
1.15 million ha irrigable area, which is divided into two stages. Stage I,
currently being developed, covers an irrigable area of 540,000 ha. The
completion of the Pong Dam, on the Beas River, with assistance from Credit
89-IN, will enable year-round irrigation.
3.03      The proposed project, which is located in the Stage I area, in-
cludes 200,000 ha of irrigable land and an additional 35,000 ha of high sand
dunes. The irrigable area is divided into two adjacent blocks, each of
100,000 ha (Maps 10883 and 10884). The entire area is irrigated by gravity.
Block B has been partially developed, as water has been available for this
area since 1962. In Block A, to the southwest of Block B, water became
available only in the last three years and this area still lacks roads and
permanent settlement.
Climate
3.04      The climate is semi-arid with most of the annual rainfall (average
300 mm) occuring in the June-October monsoon season (kharif). It is cool
and dry in the winter (rabi) season. From March to June, the weather is
very hot with strong winds and sandstorms. With irrigation, climatic con-
ditions are favorable for a wide range of grain and fibre crops. Details
on climate are presented in Annex 1.
Topography, Soils and Drainage
3.05      The project area is located in ax. ancient flood plain of the
Indus River System. In recent geological times, the alluvial soils have
been overlain and mixed with windblown sand from the southwest, resulting
in a vast expanse of low and often shifting sand dunes interspersed with
large interdunal flats. The increasing aridity of the climate after the
westward shift of the river system gave rise to soils with moderate to strong
sodic (saline/alkaline) properties in parts of the project area; these silty
clay soils (tal) are, however, amenable to reclamation through leaching. The
low rolling sand dune areas, on the other hand, require land shaping and
leveling for irrigation. Of the project area of 235,000 ha, 200,000 ha would
be suitable for irrigation development, the remainder consisting of high dunes
requiring stabilization through controlled pasture development. About
108,000 ha are presently irrigated. The remainder of the potentially irri-
gable area consists of 34,000 ha of tal soils and 58,000 ha of low sand dunes.
Agricultural development on similar tal and sandy soils in the neighboring
Gang and Bhakra irrigation projects has confirmed that a high level of fer-
tility can be achieved with good cultivation practice. Details on soils and
topography are presented in Annex 2.



- 6 -
3.06      The area has no draini.ge problems.  The soils are permeable and
groundwater is at a considerable depth (50 m). With lined canals and farm
distribution systems, and efficient use of water after the initial leaching
and development period, the rise of the deep water table should average
less than 30 cm per year. Flooding, which occurs annually along the
Ghaggar River flood plain, in a 5-10 km wide belt between Blocks A and B,
is usually of short duration.
Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.07      The entire RCP area is being settled by landless farmers from
nearby areas (Annex 5). The area has been subdivided into 6.32 ha farm
units. Each settler purchases one farm unit from GOR at an average cost
of Rs 16,755, repayable over 15 years without interest. Pre-1955 tenant
farmers living in the project area receive one farm unit free and have the
option of purchasing one additional unit. Settlers receive permanent title
to their farms after they have completed full payment. Settlement takes
place soon after irrigation facilities are completed in each area. Block B
is almost entirely settled and settlers have been chosen for all the unoc-
cupied parts of Block A. Permanent land allotment in the project area is
expected to be completed in July 1974. In order to prevent overgrazing and
to ensure the success of the sand dune stabilization component of the project
(para 4.07), GOR has agreed that no uncommanded (i.e. high dune) land would
be allotted to settlers.
Town and Village Settlements
3.08      The project area is populated by about 100,000 people living
in 69 villages and in the small townships of Bijeynagar, Anupgarh and
Rawatsar. When fully developed, the population may reach about 400,000,
occupying 227 villages and nine market towns. GOR has reserved land for
this final development level and plans to equip all towns and villages
with basic services (water supply, shopping areas, storage and marketing
facilities, schools and health clinics).
Irrigation and Land Development
3.09      By the end of 1973, the Rajasthan Canal Board had completed the
iaio canal and 915 km of unlined distribution canals serving the project
AreLe  Ine following nomenclature is used for the canal system, in decreas-
ing order of size: main, branch, distributary, minor, watercourse, and
field channel. A watercourse serves an irrigation service unit (chak)
which covers an average of 120 ha (20 farmers) and is communally owned
(Map 10885). A field channel is a private ditch within a farm. In 1967,
GOR decided to line the distribution network to reduce leakage and some
lining work has since been completed in the more seriously affected
stretches. The Rajasthan Canal Board is also continuing work in the
Stage II area and plans to complete it within ten to fifteen years.



-7-
3.10      On-farm development works (land shaping and construction of water-
courses and field channels) have beran started throughout the project area,
with most of the work being done by the farmers themselves. In a small part
of Block B, where water supplies are perennial, cropping intensities of up to
130% have been achieved on limited areas. In most of the block, however,
after 12 years of irrigation, cropping intensities are still less than 80X,
and only 70% of the land commanded is irrigable; most of the high dune areas
in the command area are substantially untouched. In Block A, after four
years of development, only about 30% of the irrigable land is cultivated.
3.11      In general, the project area has had an assured irrigation supply
only in the kharif season. Following the completion of the Pong Reservoir
in 1974, water supplies will be perennial for the entire area. Full
benefits from this supply cannot be achieved, however, until canal lining
works and land development are completed. At present, water supply is
inadequate, as large amounts of water are lost due to seepage along some
5,000 km of unlined watercourses.
Agricultural Production
3.12      Without irrigation, agricultural production in the project area
is characteristic of a semi-arid desert zone. Only in one year out of five
is rainfall sufficient to support a full millet crop in the kharif season,
and gram or mustard in the rabi season. Most of the area's production has
been based on extensively grazed livestock. With the introduction of irri-
gation, a wide range of crops has become feasible. Cotton, wheat, and
pulses are the main crops with mustard, sorghum, berseem (fodder), and some
vegetables as minor crops. Paddy is grown as part of the tal soils reclama-
tion process. The very small sugarcane production is solely for on-farm
consumption. Present yields of the main crops, cotton (1.2 ton/ha) and
wheat (1.6 ton/ha), are low and reflect the limited supply of water and other
farm inputs (fertilizer, quality seeds and plant protection), combined with
unimproved farm practices.
3.13      Farm animals include large numbers of draft oxen, milk cows and
camels. Farm activities are almost entirely carried out by hand or with
animal power. Custom hiring of tractors is, however, on the increase and
would be essential for the initial cultivation of the tal soils. Details
of agricultural production are presented in Annex 13.
Marketing and Transportation
3.14      Bullock carts are the normal means for transporting produce to
the town markets (mandis). Marketing conditions are regulated by GOR
through local committees. Recent shortages have led to black market prices
well above Government support prices.
3.15      The main population centers, Bikaner, Hanumangarh, and Ganganagar,
near the project area are connected to the all-India rail and road networks.



Withfn the project area, however, only a skeletal road system exists.
Block B is relatively well served, being interconnected to the adjacent
townT of Suratgarh and Hanumangarh with their well-developed marketing,
processing, and storage facilities. By contrast, Block A has only a single,
all-weather road along its main axis from the established townships of
Bijeynagar and Anupgarh in the north, to the small communities of Gharsana
and Fawala ln the south. The existing conrnection between Blocks A and B
is along the single tenuous route from Suratgarh to Bijeynagar. A single
road links Gharsana to Bikaner, the administrative headquarters of the
regica. The very few village roads are passable only with difficulty,
Substantial road improvements are required, especially for the transport
of the large marketable agricultural su=plus, which would be generated by
the project. Details of the road network are presented in Annex 3.
Environment and Health
3.16      Without irrigation, the northern Rajasthan desert is a harsh
environment. With the introduction of irrigation in the RCP area and in
the Gang/Bhakra areas several years ago, the environment is being improved
through the planting of shelter belts along canals and roads. Similar
measures, together with controlled pasture development to arrest the
shifting sand dunes, are required in the project area.
3.17      Experience in the Gang/Bhakra area, and in the developed parts of
the RCP area, has shown that health improvement has generally followed
irrigation development, as settlers have gained access to more modern health
facilities. Much remains to be done, however, particularly in preventive
medicine. As the population density grows in the project area, the danger
of major infectious diseases will increase and effective surveillance and
control measures will have to be introduced, including the provision of
sanitary water supplies (para 4.09).
Present Problems
3.18      GOR's efforts to increase agricultural production in the project
area are currently constrained by the following factors:
(a) Lack of land leveling of the high dune areas and lack of
land reclamation of some of the tal soils;
(b)  The absence of lined watercourses, which reduces water
availability and limits the introduction of a rational
water management system;
(c) Lack of canal lining in the branch, distributary, and
minor canal network which causes high conveyance losses;
(d) An inadequate road network, resulting in high transport
costs and a hindering of permanent settlement in Block A;



-9-
(e) An extension service which is only partly effective, due to
organizational problems and a lack of training;
(f) Lack of adequate dune stabilization works and measures to
control wind-blown sand, causing high maintenance costs
for canals and roads and hindering farming operations;
(g) Shortage of essential inputs, mainly fertilizers; and
(h) Insufficient coordination between the Government agencies
responsible for the various services to agriculture.
The proposed project would attempt to overcome these problems.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The proposed project would provide for improved irrigation facili-
ties and roads, land development works, supporting agricultural services to
some 33,000 small farming families, construction of village water supplies
and implementation of an afforestation program.
Project Works
4.02      The project works have been selected on a priority basis, within
organizational and budgetary constraints. The physical works and inputs to
be financed under the project are described briefly below and in more detail
in Annex 3.
4.03      Land Development - Preliminary surveys show that an estimated
58,000 ha of sand dunes within the irrigable command area (200,000 ha)
have not been leveled by the settlers and are presently unirrigable.  On the
basis of a detailed topographical survey of the area, to be carried out
under the project, these lands would be divided into two categories.
Category I would cover land which the farmer, using his own equipment, could
level over the next five years. Category II, which is estimated at 32,000
ha, would require mechanical means and more sophisticated leveling techniques
(Reference 1) and would be carried out by the project authority.
4.04      Reclamation of some 17,000 ha of the most seriously affected saline
tal soils would be carried out, using heavy equipment for deep plowing and
subsoiling, prior to leaching and rice cultivation by the farmer. Before
commencing with the reclamation work in this area (including the lining of
watercourses), GOR would carry out a study of reclamation techniques, their
cost, and the economic justification of these works. This study would help
to determine the required subsidy level on these soils, and the miost appro-
priate reclamation techniques. Results of the study would be forwarded to



- 10 -
the Association within two years of Credit signing. Farmers would reclaim
another 17,000 ha of less seriously affected tal soils by themselves with
technical supervision provided under the project.
4.05      Concurrently with the implementation of land leveling, some
5,800 km of watercourses would be lined. Existing watercourses would be
realigned where necessary, reshaped and lined with one course of brick
tiles.
4.06      Lining of the Irrigation System - Canal lining would increase
canal carrying capacities and reduce seepage and operational losses. The
works are essential to increase irrigation intensities in the project area,
as present carrying capacities and conveyance losses limit water deliveries
to the farms. A total of 915 km of canals would be lined with a double
layer of 5 cm thick brick tile set in cement mortar.
4.07      Afforestation - The afforestation component would be vital in
mitigating the harsh environment in the project area and would also reduce
canal and road maintenance costs. Under the project, about 5,700 km of canals
and roads would be provided with shelter belts to stop windblown sand from
clogging and covering them. Some 35,000 ha of uncommanded high sand dunes
bordering on irrigated land would be stabilized and planted with shrubs
and grasses for controlled pasture development (Reference 2). Irrigated
village firewood plantations would be established on 1,800 ha.
4.08      Roads - The project includes 431 km of major market, feeder and
village roads, in order to provide adequate access to all villages in the
project area. The lack of drainage problems and favorable foundation con-
ditions along the proposed road alignments make construction of the network
relatively cheap. A description of each road included in the project is
given in Annex 3.
4.09      Domestic Water Supply - Existing village water supplies are
unsanitary. The project would introduce a filtered and disinfected water
supply in 100 villages thus considerably reducing the danger of waterborne
diseases.
4.10      Fertilizers - Land leveling works would disturb the soil profile
and result in a temporary loss of fertility. In addition, the project
farmors would assume a heavy debt for the cost of land development which
could only be repaid if satisfactory yields were obtained. Under present
conditions of fertilizer shortage, GOI allocations, even to irrigated
areas, are likely to fall well short of requirements. It is important
therefore that the farmers have guaranteed access to fertilizer and the
project includes provision for the import of 46,000 nutrient tons of var-
ious fertilizers (Annex 12), which would supply the difference between
present allocations and recommended levels of use for the first three years
after land development. As this fertilizer would be needed to restore soil



- 11 -
fertility, it may properly be regarded as a capital expenditure. GOI agreed
to allocate yearly to the State of Rajasthan between 1975 and 1984 fertilizer
in the quantity and of the types financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
On its part, GOR undertook to ensure that fertilizer in the quantity and of
the types to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit would be
made available to farmers in Block A and B of the project. GOI and GOR also
confirmed their respective intention to take all steps as shall be reasonable
to ensure that the balance of farmers' fertilizer requirements over that
part financed under the project would be met and to keep the Association
informed if there is any shortfall in the forecast availability of such
fertilizer. Further details of fertilizer requirements and the arrangements
for the distribution and monitoring of the sale of such fertilizer are
presented in Annex 12.
4.11      Other Project Components - Vehicles and equipment would be pro-
vided for project administration, construction of the force account portions
of the work, and for the agricultural support services. The project also
includes financial provisions for project administration, extension services
and the operation and maintenance (O&M) of the physical facilities during
the project implementation period. Since Block A is largely uninhabited,
each major works item includes a component for temporary buildings for
offices and staff housing during construction. Some of these buildings
would be suitable for later conversion to offices and housing for O&M and
extension personnel.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4.12      Water Supply - Water far crop production in the project area would
be derived mainly from stream flow originating in the Ravi and Beas Rivers
and diverted to the Rajasthan Canal through the Harike Barrage on the Sutlej
River below its confluence with the Beas River (Map 10884). Hydrological
records of both rivers and reservoir operations studies of Pong Dam on the
Beas River and the proposed Thien Dam on the Ravi River indicate (tentative-
ly) that an annual supply of about 9,000 Mm3 to the RCP area is available
seven years out of ten; the presently designed RCP diversion pattern makes
52% of this water available in the June through October period and 48%
available in November through May. Reservoir releases for irrigation have
priority over hydroelectric demands.
4.13      Water Demand - The projected cropping pattern (130% cropping
intensity) has been devised to maximize returns to the farmers from the
expected amount of water to be delivered to them and includes 96% of com-
paratively lightly irrigated crops such as mustard, gram, millet together
with 34% of the more heavily water demanding crops such as cotton, paddy,
fodder, and sugarcane. It also conforms to the seasonal diversion release
pattern described in para 4.12 above. Yearly effective rainfall, taken as
50% of the average rainfall in the project area, is about 140 am. The projected
cropping pattern water demand would require a gross supply of 1,860 Mm3 per



year for the 200,000 ha area at an estimated 65% overall irrigation efficiency;
the corresponding water demand, if the whole 540 000 ha Stage I area were
developed to similar standard, would be 5,100 Mm1 per year. GOR has agreed
to ensure that sufficient water would be diverted to the project area to
permit an irrigated cropping intensity of 130% per year in seven years out
of ten.
4.14      The present ove_all irri6ation operating efficierLcy in the Stage I
RCP area is only 35% to 430  due to leakage from unlined channels, :nadequate
operating procedures and poor on-farm water management.  The maximak  crop-
ping intensity which could be achieved in the future with the present irri-
gaticn system and water management practices is estimated to be about 90%.
The project would remove existing constraints on better water use by imple-
menting a fully lined canal system, instituting new operation procedures,
assisting the construction of permanent field channels on the farms, and
providing guidance to farmers on better water management. These measures
would result in a rapid increase in irrigation efficiency to an estimated 65%
after project completion. Arrangements would be made under the project for
continuous monitoring of water conveyance losses in the main distribution
system and irrigation efficiencies on the farms.
4.15      Until the entire RCP area is developed (10 to 15 years), there
will be large surpluses of water. However, unless the whole area is fully
equipped and developed to the standards envisaged in the present project,
it would not be possible to irrigate the entire 1.15 million ha with the
water supply available in the future.
4.16      Water Quality - The quality of the Indus Basin water, which is
diverted to the RCP, is high and suitable for sustained irrigation. Exist-
ing groundwater is saline and unsuitable for irrigation or domestic water
supply. Details of water supply and demand are given in Annex 4.
Engineering Design
4.17      Designs for land development works would be prepared by the
Land Development Circles of the Command Area Authority on a chak-by-chak
basis. Designs for some 6,000 ha are already available and appropriate
land leveling standards have been drawn up (Reference 1). In order to
prepare detailed designs for each farm in the estimated 58,000 ha area
requiring land leveling (32,000 ha by the project authority and 26,000 ha
by the farmers), some 87,000 ha would have to be surveyed. Contract draw-
ings for canal lining works would be prepared by the Irrigation Circles to
the ~,CP standard, which is acceptable. Road work designs and drawings would
follew Indian Roads Congress staidards (Annex 3) which are acceptable, and
woul,1 be undertaken by the PWD. A typical outline design is available for
thtie -illage water supply, storage and treatment works.  This mode' design
*oulA be modified by the Water Supply Department to fit conditions at in-
dividual viilage sites.



- 13 -
Construction Methods
4.18      Labor intensive methods would be used for most of the project
construction. However, contracts would provide for mobilization advances
to enable contractors to purchase simple tools and equipment where appro-
priate to increase the productivity of labor. Certain kinds of works,
notably heavy land leveling and compaction of roads, would require machinery.
For land leveling, a 105 hp crawler tractor and a 6 yd3 scraper have been
proposed as the basic machines (Reference 1), while for lighter land shaping,
a small tractor-drawn scraper or a land plane would be used. For all oper-
ations, trucks and field vehicles, workshop, survey and office equipment
would be required. Equipment to be procured under the project is listed in
Annex 7.
Implementation Schedule
4.19      Project implementation would take about six years (Chart 8638).
Land development works would take five years to complete and the speed
of execution would be governed by the rate at which detailed survey plans
for land leveling are prepared and agreed with the individual farmers.
GOR has already started detailed survey work on 30,000 ha to reduce delays
to a minimum. Land development plans must be completed at least nine months
before construction.
Cost Estimates
4.20      Total project costs are estimated at US$174.0, of which the for-
eign exchange component would be US$47.1 or 27% of total project cost. Esti-
mated costs are based on price levels prevailing in December 1973 and in-
clude the effects of a sharp increase in the costs of gasoline and diesel
just prior to that date. Expected price increases for civil works and fer-
tilizers, beginning at 17% in the first year and tapering to 11% in the
third year and varying similarly between 12% and 7% for administrative and
operating costs, have been included and are considered reasonable since the
projetct would be constructed by labor-intensive methods and the cost of
labor in India is not expected to rise as rapidly as world commodity prices.
Estimated price increases equal 45% of the basic cost of the total project.
Physical contingencies varying between 10% and 20% have been included,
according to the status of planning and design. A breakdown of project costs
is presented in Annex 6 and is summarized below:



- 14 -
% of
Item                     Local  Foreign    Total  Local  Foreign  Total Total
------Rs million-----  --      US$ million-----
Canal Lining             233.6   42.4       276.0   29.2    5.3       34.5   20
Roads                     54.4    6.4         60.8    6.8    0.8        7.6    4
Afforestation             40.0    4.8         44.8    5.0    0.6       5.6    3
Village Water Supply       14.4    1.6        16.0    1.8    0.2       2.0    1
Land Development         234.4   58.4       292.8   29.3    7.3       36.6   21
Supplementary
Fertilizer                8.0  149.6        157.6    1.0   18.7      19.7   12
Project Operating Cost   63.2    6.4          69.6    7.9    0.8       8.7    5
Sub-total              648.0  269.6       917.6   81.0   33.7    114.7   66
Physical Contingencies   49.6   10.4          60.0    6.2    1.3       7.5    4
Estimated Price
Increases               317.6   96.8       414.4   39.7   12.1       51.8   30
Total Project Cost    1,015.2  376.8    1,392.0  126.9   47.1    174.0  100
Financing
4.21      The proposed IDA Credit of US$83.0 million would finance the
foreign exchange component of the project (US$47.1 million) and 28% of the
local costs, or 48% of the total project cast. The Credit would be made
to GOI. GOR would finance canal lining, village water supply, roads and
afforestation works from its development budget, which includes a GOI con-
tribution. Operation and maintenance costs would be financed by GOR from
its regular budget.
4.22      Assurances were obtained from GOI that:  (a) the proceeds of the
Credit, except disbursements for on-farm development and fertilizer, would
be made available to GOR; and (b) that GOI would cause GOR to make arrange-
mients in its annual development plans for the provision of funds required
for the implementation of the project in accordance with a detailed imple-
mentation schedule which shall be acceptable to IDA. At the same time,
COR has agreed to furnish to the Association, not later than February 1
',n each year, a detailed project implementation schedule acceptable to the
Association for the next fiscal year.
4.23      Fertilizer purchases under the project would be financed directly
by the Credit. On-farm development works would be financed mainly by the
farmers, using credit funds provided by GOI and the commercial banks. De-
tails are given in paras 5.08 to 5.12 and Annexes 7 and 8. Commercial bank
loans would be refinanced 80% by the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC)
of the GOI, a sound institution which has been the channel for several previ-
ous IDA Credits. A condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit would
be that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to IDA had been executed
between GOI and ARC.



- 15 -
Procurement
4.24      Vehicles and Equipment - The estimated cost of vehicles and equip-
ment for project management, force account construction and for hire to
contractors (Annex 7), is US$10.2 million.. Out of this total, US$6.3 million
would be subject to international competitLve bidding in accordance with
Bank Group Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the cif price of
imported goods, or the prevailing customs cuty if lower, would be extended
to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. About US$1.0 million
worth of equipment and vehicles, consisting of groups of contracts costing
less than US$100,000 each, which for reasons of efficiency are not suitable
for international tendering, would be purchased through normal GOR procure-
ment procedures, which are satisfactory. The balance of US$2.9 million,
consisting of field vehicles and five ton trucks would be reserved for local
procurement and would not be eligible for reimbursement out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
4.25      Civil Works - A review has been made of the suitability of the
project civil works for grouping into large contracts. The following con-
clusions were reached (amounts shown are basic costs, net of physical and
price contingencies but include the cost of materials such as cement, steel
and coal, which are supplied by GOR at a fixed price to the contractors):
(a)  Canal lining works (US$34.5 million) - Canal lining works
would have to be carried out within the brief periods of
canal shutdown (normally 15 days per month). The UNDP
Studies (para 1.02) showed that the least cost method of
lining is with brick tiles manufactured at a large number
of scattered brick kilns, each operated from a small clay
deposit located in the vicinity of the construction site.
Under these conditions, it would not be feasible to group
these works into large contracts;
(b) Roads (US$7.6 million) - Because of the need for the road
program to keep pace with the other project elements the
works must be spread over six years. The road works would
have to be grouped into one large contract in order to be of
any interest to large contractors. This would be an ineffi-
cient procedure for what are basically simple repetitive
tasks which could be performed by small contractors using
labor intensive methods at lower costs. Moreover, in the
case of a large contract the problem, both for the con-
tractor and the PWD engineers, in coordinating the road-
works with the execution of other project elements outside
the contract, would be difficult and likely to result in
unnecessary high construction and supervision costs;



- 16 -
(c) Village Water Supplies (US$2.0 million) - These works would
be individually small and scattered over 100 widely dispersed
sites and over a 6-year period. They would therefore not
be suitable for grouping into a single contract; and
(d) On-Farm Development (US$36.6 million) - These works would
need to be planned and executed at short notice to coincide
with the acceptance of land development plans by the farmers,
as well as to avoid the growing season. On a particular
farm of 6 ha, three different implementation procedures may
be required: leveling by the farmer using his own labor and
implements, leveling by a small local contractor using camel
carts and labor gangs, and heavy machinery for leveling a
high dune. For these reasons, the on-farm development works
cannot be grouped into large multi-year contracts.
Because of the conditions in the project area just described and the nature
of the works to be carried out - the improvement and upgrading of an oper-
ating irrigation system - none of the civil works could be grouped into con-
tracts large enough to be of interest to international contractors. It is
therefore proposed to carry out the works by small, mainly annual, contracts
to be advertised locally or, where this is not practicable, by force account.
Force account works would probably include about 60% of the on-farm works,
or about 27% of all the civil works. The firms likely to bid on small con-
tracts would not possess the necessary equipment. For road works, the
necessary equipment would be simple and unlikely to be misused and would
therefore be hired out by the project organization to successful bidders.
Part of the on-farm development works require more sophisticated machinery
and it has not been possible to devise a method of making such machinery
available to contractors.  Therefore, the portions of these works requiring
sophisticated machinery would be executed by force account.
4.26      Fertilizer - For efficiency, procurement of fertilizer under the
project would be combined with the regular bulk procurement of fertilizer
by the India Tender Board, which is responsible for procuring India's entire
needs for imported fertilizer. Because of the present extremely tight world
supply situation, the India Tender Board's current procedure provides for
"international shopping", which includes seeking price quotations from possi-
ble suppliers, followed by price negotiations with the bidders to obtain the
lowest price. Under the present scarcity conditions, and given the fact
that the project fertilizer would be procured in the first year of project
implementation, the above procedure would be satisfactory provided at least
three quotations are invited.
Disbursements
4.27      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the cif
cost of directly imported equipment and fertilizer, or the ex-factory price
for equipment manufactured locally, and at the rate of 70% for imported
equipment procured locally. Disbursements for civil works carried out by



- 17 -
contractors and by force account would be on a percentage basis. Disburse-
ment for force account would be made against a certificate of expenditure
from the Command Area Authority, the documentation for which would not be
submitted for review but would be retained by the Authority and would be
available for inspection during project supervision. The estimated sched-
ule of expenditures on the project, the proposed allocation of the proceeds
of the Credit, and a semi-annual disbursement schedule are presented in
Annex 8. Any savings in the Credit account would be reallocated by increas-
ing the percentage disbursement for civil works. It is expected that dis-
bursements would be completed by June 30, 1981, about one year after
completion of project construction.
Accounts and Audits
4.28      The Command Area Authority (CAA), as part of a GOR department,
would be subject to the usual Government control and auditing procedures.
Assurances were obtained from GOR that the accounts and financial statements
of the CAA would be audited each year in accordance with sound auditing
principles and that certified copies of such financial statement and the
report of such audit would be submitted to IDA within four months after the
end of each fiscal year.
4.29      A similar assurance was obtained from GOR in respect of the Rajasthan
Land Development Corporation (RLDC), except that independent auditors would
be required. Auditing procedures for ARC are laid down in previous Credit
Agreements. An assurance was also obtained that ARC would require the com-
mercial banks participating in the project (para 5.08) to maintain separate
accounts for project lending; and ensure that the annual audited accounts of
such banks (including an analysis of overdues and bad debts) would be submitted
to IDA within four months of the end of their fiscal year, together with a
statement of project lending for such banks, certified by ARC.
Environmental Effects of the Project
4.30      The project would do much to alleviate the harsh environment of
the command area. Afforestation works would reduce erosion and the debili-
tating effects of the hot sand-laden winds in May and June. A sanitary water
supply in 100 of the project area villages would reduce the incidence of
waterborne diseases. The project extension service would advise farmers on
the judicious selection and use of pesticides to minimize environmental
damage. GOR is also considering the introduction of a program to monitor
and control water-associated diseases.



is -
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Implementation
5.01      This project is among the first of many command area develop-
ment projecLS throughout India scheduled for implementation in the next
few -ears. Tnerefore, there has been concern ooth at the Central and State
leve:s to devise organizational arrangements which could be duplicated else-
where. Because of the nature of the project, maximum coordination of all
project activities is necessary, and to achieve this, GOR has created a Com-
mand Area Development Water Utilization (CAD & WU) Department at State level
and the Rajasthan Canal Command Area Authority (CAA) in the project area.
Full details are given in Annex 9.
5.02      The CAD & WU Department (Chart 8599) within the Ministry of Agri-
culture, is headed by a Secretary, who is guided on policy matters by a
Coordination Committee for Command Area Development. This Committee is
chaired by the Chief Minister and includes the Ministers, Secretaries and
other senior officials of all the departments concerned. To assist the
Secretary CAD&WU in his day to day operations, a small coordinating committee
would be set up by the Chief Secretary GOR.
5.03      The CAA, which has been established by executive order, is headed
by an Area Development Commissioner, an administrator with the powers of
Chief Engineer (Irrigation), Director of Agriculture, Revenue Divisional
Comrissioner and Registrar of Cooperatives. The existing staff of the
Irrigation, Agriculture, Revenue and Cooperative Departments in the project
area would be transferred to the CAA by the end of 1974. As well as having
direct responsibility for these functions, the Commissioner has coordinating
powers for roads, forestry, water supply and other relevant activities in the
project area (Chart 8640). To assist in the latter functions, a Command Area
Consultative Committee is being set up, comprising representatives of the
district administration and the departments not directly under the CAA. ThE
GOR Public Works Department (PWD), Forestry and Water Supply Departments would
each set up special Circles to design and construct their respective parts
of the project works.
5.01,     The CAA would be organized into four departments:  Agriculture,
heaeed by a Joint Director of Agriculture, responsible for research, exten-
sion and coordination of the supply of inputs; Irrigation and Land Development,
headed by a Chief Engineer (under the technical supervision of the Rajasthan
Can. 1 Board) who would be responsible for all irrigation and land develop-
men:.; Cooperatives and Colonization, headed by a Joint Registrar, responsible
for all colonization activities in the project area and for the setting up
of -rillage cooperatives; and a Revenue Department, responsible for collection
of taxes and for processing loan applications.



- 19 -
5.05      Agreement was reached that the Area Development Commissioner would
be appointed in consultation with GOI. The establishment of the CAA, with
organization, board membership and powers satisfactory to the Association
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit.
Rajasthan Land Development Corporation
5.06      The Rajasthan Land Development Corporation (RLDC) would be a
statutory corporation to be set up under an Act, which has been drafted by
GOR. This legislation would, inter alia, empower RLDC to carry out on-farm
development on a compulsory b3sis. It would be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed Credit that RLDC has been duly established under the laws
of Rajasthan with capitalization, board membership and powers satisfactory
to the Association.
5.07      RLDC would have a Board of Directors, chaired by the Secretary,
CAD & WU and including GOI and ARC representatives, the CAM Commissioner,
the managing director of RLDC and other non-official members. The purpose
of RLDC would be to act as a financial intermediary for the on-farm devel-
opment component of the project, which would be largely financed by credit
to the farmers since GOR budgetary funds are limited. RLDC's share capital
of Rs 100 million, would be subscribed equally by GOI and GOR and would be
used as operating capital to provide advances to the CAM for on-farm works
and equipment purchases. Full details of RLDC, including financial state-
ments, are shown in Annex 10.
Financing of On-Farm Development Works
5.08      For on-farm development works, a cost estimate for each farm would
be prepared by the CM and passed to the RLDC.  The RLDC would determine the
farmer's eligibility for a commercial bank loan and, if eligible, would pre-
pare a loan application which would be submitted to a selected commercial
bank. The amount of the loan would cover the full cost of on-farm develop-
ment less any subsidy (para 5.12). The banks would have the power to reject
applications but only on well-defined criteria, which would be laid down
under their refinancing agreements with ARC (para 4.23).
5.09      Commercial bank loans to the farmers would have a maturity of up
to 15 years, with interest of not less than 9.5% and a grace period of not
more than two years. The financial impact of these terms is discussed in
para 6.07. These loans would be secured by a mortgage on the land holding
and the banks would be solely responsible for loan recovery. ARC would
refinance 80% of the commercial loans at its standard interest rate, currently
7%.
5.10      Farmers ineligible for commercial loans would receive an unsecured
"special loan" from RLDC, using funds provided by GOI. The usual reasons for
ineligibility include: lack of a clear title, arrears in loan repayments to



- 20 -
Government agencies, and the refusal to accept a commercial loan. GOR has
agreed to update land records and carry out a campaign to recover farmers'
debts to the State and local Government agencies and banks before carrying
out on-farm development in any area. Even with such a campaign, it is
estimated that up to 20% of the on-farm works would require special loans.
5.11      Special loans would normally have stiffer terms than commercial
loans, in order to give an incentive for farmers to become eligible for the
latter. Farmers receiving special loans who later became eligible for a
commercial loan would be encouraged to convert, so as to reduce RLDC's
liabilities. However, farmers who are eligible for, but refuse to accept,
commercial loans would have to pay an additional interest penalty. Special
loans would be recovered through a surcharge on the existing land tax.
5.12      GOI would subsidize certain categories of disadvantaged farmers
under its program to alleviate rural poverty. These categories would in-
clude those farmers whose land leveling or reclamation cost is much above
average. In these cases, which apply to about 10,000 ha, the subsidy would
equal those costs of land leveling which are determined by the CAA to be
beyond the farmers' capacity to pay. GOI has agreed to send to the Association
by the end of 1974, details of the guidelines to be applied in these cases.
Agricultural Supporting Services
5.13      To maximize the benefits of the proposed investments in physical
facilities, complementary and closely coordinated efforts are needed in all
the agricultural supporting services. The present status and proposed im-
provements for each service are described below. Reference 3 gives full
details of the plan for extension services in the project area, which is being
implemented by GOR. Other supporting services are described in detail in
Annex 12.
5.14      Research - Varietal and crop trials research on the major crops
is being undertaken in the project area and applied research on water use,
fertilizer response and soil fertility is being carried out at Barore and
hanumangarh Research Farms.  These programs would be continued under the
project, as they are well oriented to the needs of the area, and special
emphasis would be given to better irrigation and soil reclamation practices.
^  project would firance some equipment and vehicles for the research stations
atL s;kaner, Hanumangarh and Barore. Cooperation between research and exten-
sion personnel would be facilitated by a proposed Project Extension Council.
5.15      Extension - Extension activities in the project area are supervised
at present by a Joint Director of Extension at the Regional level. Respon-
sibility for extension work in the project area is divided between two District
Agricultural Officers, one for each of the areas A and B, who are assisted
at present by 27 Agricultural Extension Officers and 75 Village Level Workers
(VLW's), all of whom are employed by the Department of Agriculture. In
addition, there are two Agricultural Extension Officers and 35 VLW's who
are employed by the panchayats (village committees). While the basic
extension structure is adequate, much needs to be done to improve its



- 21 -
effectiveness.  Progressive farmers would be enrolled as part-time workers
under the new program, which also includes staff housing, equipment and
vehicles, to be provided under the project. Extension efforts would be
concentrated initially on the major crops, with special emphasis on improve-
ments not requiring cash outlays from the farmers. The extension program
would be continuously evaluated and programs would be updated to meet the
needs of the area farmers.
5.16      Soil Surveys - The soil survey unit of the RCP Agricultural Re-
search Organization is carrying out a detailed soil survey of the project
area, which is 10% complete at present. This work would be continued with
special emphasis on delineating sodic soils.
5.17      Fertilizer - The project farmers are strongly aware of the need
for fertilizer and would use optimum amounts, at least on high-yielding var-
ieties of wheat, cotton, and paddy if supplies were available. Nationally,
fertilizer supplies are about 60% of demand but, in the project area, avail-
ability seems to be as low as 30%.  Fertilizers are allocated through coop-
eratives, private dealers and at agro-centers, with irrigated areas receiving
a higher allocation.  India's import program has had to be cut back because
of a doubling of world prices and world-wide scarcities but recent Bank sur-
veys show that the fertilizer supply situation in India should ease over the
next five years, as new plants are constructed and the price of imports de-
clines.
5.18      The need for assured supplies of fertilizer in the development
period is critical because the project area soils are inherently poor in
nutrients. Following land leveling in the dune areas and reclamation of
the tal soils, a drop in fertility can be expected because the top soils
are removed and leaching takes place. Supplementary fertilizer supplies
would be procured under the project. Proposed arrangements for distribu-
tion are described in Annex 12. Project fertilizer would be sold to the
farmers at the prevailing market price.
5.19      Seed - The main source of new seed in the project area is the
Department of Agriculture which supplies about 90% of the demand for hybrid
varieties and 30% to 40% of the requirements for wheat seed, the remainder
being supplied through private growers. GOR has recognized the need for
state-wide improvements in seed multiplication and distribution and has agreed
to prepare, within one year of Credit signing, a project to meet this need.
As the projected benefits used in project evaluation are based on present
conditions of seed availability, the proposed seed project would enhance the
economic viability of the present project.
5.20      Farmers' Organizations.  Existing farmers' organizations include
village cooperative societies and informal water users groups. There is
a need to develop a strong irrigation association in each chak in order to
ensure the timely distribution of irrigation water. Farmers' organizations
required to disseminate extension information would be the responsibility
of the extension workers. Village cooperative societies have not, so far,



- 22 -
proved very successful in the project area. As population settlement and
project area development is completed, there will be an increasing need for
multi-purpose village cooperatives responsible for credit, farm inputs and
marketing. The Joint Registrar of Cooperatives and Colonization in the CAA
would be responsible for guiding the formation of new cooperatives and
strengthening the management of the existing ones.
Agricultural Credit
5.21      Sources of production credit in the project area include private
money lenders, the cooperativas and commercial banks. Longer-term loans are
provided by the Land Developamnt Banks and the comercial banks, Terms and
conditions of the institutional lenders are satisfactory and some subsidies are
available to disadvantaged farmers. However, the overall lending volume is
limited mainly by an unsatisfactory level of loan recovery. Total production
credit requirements at full project development have been estimated at Rs 120
million per year based on an assumption that 75% of inputs would be purchased
on credit. Much of this requirement would be met through an expansion of the
role of commercial banks. GOR has agreed to take steps to ensure adequate
availability of production credit for project farmers from participating
banks and cooperatives.
Operation and Maintenance
5.22      Operation and maintenance (0&1M4 of the irrigation system would be
the responsibility of the Chief Engineer, Irrigation and Land Development.
In addition to his responsibilities for project construction, he would be
responsible for two O&M Circles operating in the project area. Each Circle
would be responsible for a number of canal commands. Water would be supplied
rotationally to blocks of 1,200 to 1,500 ha. The agricultural staff, in
coordination with an irrigation advisory conmittee to be set up for each
block, would draw up irrigation schedules in accordance with the farm man-
agement plans. The schedules would be prepared at least three months before
the start of each crop season. The VLW's of the extension service, together
with the irrigation patwaris (ditchriders) would help farmers to implement
the rotational schedules within each chak. The annual O&M cost of the
system down to the chak outlet would be about Rs 36/ha. Roads would con-
tinue to be maintained by the PWD and funding would be increased to a satis-
factory level, estimated at Rs 3,500/km. The village water supplies would
be operated and maintained by the panchayats, with technical assistance and
chemicals being provided by GOR's Water Supply Department. Details of O&M
are given in Annex 11.
5.23      Assurances were obtained from GOR that it would furnish to the
Association not later than February 15 in each year, estimates for the cost
of operation and maintenance of the project works referred to above for the
next fiscal year, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request
for the Association's comments.



- 23 -
Cost Recovery
5.24      Water charges are presently being levied on all land actually
irrigated, with different rates for the various crops. The average charge
per ha approximates the O&M cost of the irrigation system, or Rs 36/ha. The
projected farm budgets (Annex 15) show that it would be within the capacity
of the project area farmers to pay this O&M charge, in addition to land pur-
chase and on-farm development loan repayments and a further levy to cover the
cost of canal lining, assuming a GOI subsidy for those farmers with excessive
leveling costs (para 5.12). New settlers are charged an average of Rs 16,755
for their land, paid over 15 years, which is intended to recover a substantial
part of the costs already incurred in constructing the major irrigation facili-
ties and other infrastructure. To recover a reasonable proportion (50%)
of the cost of canal lining works under the present project, an additional
charge of Rs 700/ha over ten years would be required. The present worth of
the canal lining works, together with O&M costs over 30 years, would be
Rs 286 million, using a discount rate of 12%. The estimated revenues from
water charges and the lining charge would represent a cost recovery ratio of
40%. The exact amount of the charge and recovery terms would be established
by a special GOR committee. Assurances were obtained from GOR that it would:
(a) not later than June 30, 1976, levy and collect irrigation charges from
farmers in the project area in amounts sufficient to cover the annual cost
of operating and maintaining the irrigation system; (b) adjust the charges
under (a) periodically to ensure that total yearly receipts from such charges
equal the projected yearly operating and maintenance costs of the irrigation
system; and (c) establish a committee and cause it to recommend, not later
than December 31, 1978, arrangements for the recovery of project costs to the
extent practicable, over a period of not more than 50 years, which would take
into account the farmers' incentive and capacity to pay. Upon receipt of the
committee's recommendations, GOR would furnish them to IDA and after con-
sideration of the committee's recommendations, make arrangements for the
recovery of such costs.
Monitoring of Project Benefits
5.25      A small group attached to the Area Development Commissioner would
be responsible for monitoring project benefits, including the compilation of
statistics on cropping patterns and yields, farm management surveys, and other
special studies.



- 24 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKEr PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARMERS' INCOME
Production
6.01      The project would lead to a more intensive cropping pattern and
higher yields. It would significantly inczease the marketable production
of all crops, particularly wheat and cotton. Annual cotton production would
increase from the current 23,000 tons to 115,000 tons at full devwelopment.
Wheat production would increase from 38,000 tons to 276,000 tons. The
diet-valuable pulses would increase from 9,000 tons to 36,000 tons aad fodder
from 125,000 tons to 585,000 tons. The latter would be sufficient to sustain
the animal stock required for farm cultivation activities and domestic milk
consumption. Millet would continue to be an important (kharif) cereal crop
for local consumption. Paddy and sugarcane would be grown on small areas,
the former on tal soils during the soil reclamation period. The present aud
projected cropping patterns and production data are shown in Annex 13.
6.02      Under the project, cropping intensities would increase from 90% to
130% over 200,000 ha. In the kharif season, the increase would be from the
present 41% to 56% and in rabi from 49% to 74%. The more intensive cropping
reflects the increase of cotton and pulses in the kharif and of wheat, gram
and mustard in rabi. Although most farm activities would continue to be car-
ried out by animal power, farm mechanization, through private contractors,
would increase to meet a more exacting cropping calendar. In the future,
more and more of the land preparation work in the tal soils would be done by
tractors, which are more suitable than oxen or bullocks for this work.
6.03      Present yields in most of the project area are constrained by
shortages of water and fertilizers, and inadequate agricultural practices
(particularly plant protection, seeding rates, and irrigation practices).
Estimated yields at full development (Annex 13) are based on yields now being
achieved by the few farmers in the neighbouring projects who have access to
reliable irrigation and have improved their agricultural practices. The
projected yields also take account of the heavy extension effort to be provided
as part of the project (Reference 3). As a result of the emphasis on exten-
sion work in the project, it is expected that 73% of full benefits would be
reached by year eleven and full development would be reached in year 21.
Without the project, new technology would be adopted slowly and yields would
increase gradually, reaching "with project" levels only in year 25.
Market Prospects
6.04      By year six of the project, the marketable surplus of the four
leadl'ng crops is projected as follows: wheat - 170,000 tons; cotton - 82,000
tons; gram - 50,000 tons; and mustard - 26,000 tons (Annex 14). By comparison
with the projected increase in national requirements, these marketable
surpluses are quite small and could easily be absorbed. Following the con-
struction of the proposed road network, access to potential markets in the
neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh would be siguificantly
eased. Communications within the State of Rajasthan are satisfactory.



- 25 -
6.05      Increased production would require additional processing facilities
and storage. Private sector entrepreneurs, already active in the towns of
Ganganagar, Hanumangarh and Suratgarh, are expected to provide these. Cotton
ginning and associated oil processing facilities have been established in
response to increasing production from the Gang/Bhakra areas and are expected
to increase their production capacity following the development of the
project area. Flour mills, oil extraction mills and sugarcane processing
mills exist in the area and are expected to increase their capacity with
the build-up of production. Further details on marketing, processing, and
storage are shown in Annex 14.
Prices
6.06      The farm-gate prices used for the major crops (wheat, cotton and
millet) were derived from Bank forecasts for 1980 of world market prices.
These prices correspond with actual farm-gate prices in the project area in
recent "normal" years. For the other crops, production is relatively small
and is consumed domestically. Actual farm-gate prices over the last few
years, adjusted to early 1974 price levels, were used both for ecouomic and
financial analysis. Full details are given in Annex 14.
Farmers' Income
6.07      As farmers in this area will have a considerable debt burden, their
financial position was examined in some detail. Farms of 6.32 ha (6 ha net)
on sandy and on tal soils were examined, over a period of 20 years. After
making appropriate deductions for hired labor, farm inputs (such as fer-
tilizer, seed and plant protection) and water charges and allowing a family
consumption of Rs 5,000 per year, the cash position of the project farmers
was shown to be satisfactory. They would be able to meet their debt obli-
gations on land purchase of up to Rs 20,000 and an on-farm development loans
up to Rs 15,000. In most cases, however, one or two years' grace on the
repayment of principal would be needed to cushion the new settlers against
unforeseen difficulties and expenses (Annei 15).
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      Upon completion, the project would provide year-round irrigation
to 200,000 ha including 92,000 ha of new land developed under the project.
It would also bring 35,000 ha of non-irrigable sand dunes surrounding the
irrigated areas under controlled pasture development, thus mitigating the
present harsh desert environment. The project would complete a road network
in this previously inaccessible area which would ensure the free flow of
marketable agricultural surpluses and provide an essential means of social
improvement for the rural population. In Block A, the project would complete
the long delayed land settlement, and, overall, the project would assist
the permanent settlement of 33,000 landless farmers, who with their families,
total about 200,000 presently underprivileged people. Project benefits would
accrue largely from the accelerated land development of 92,000 ha and from
the increased cropping intensity and higher crop yields on the whol'.~ 200,000 ha



- 26 -
area. The incremental net value of production in Year 11 would be Rs 254
million and, at full development at Year 21, Rs 350 million.
7.02      At present, underemployment of farm labor in the project area is
widespread throughout the year with an estimated 24 million man-days annually
available, compared with a demand of 8 million man-days. With the project,
labor demand would increase to 29 million man-days, the incremental demand
being equivalent to 70,000 fill-time jobs. The project would provide full
employment for the farm families settled in the area as well as seasonal
employment (in the cotton picking months of October and November) for an
additional 100,000 migrant laborers from adjacent agricultural areas. In
the prevailing regional climate of unemployment, this migration is a practi-
cable propositioa and constitutes an additional benefit arising from the proj-
ect. The average opportunity cost of incremental farm labor was evaluated
at Rs 5.5 per man-day, which is 10% higher than the assumed normal market
wage in the project area at peak seasons.
7.03      The economic rate of return (Annex 16) on the project is esti-
mated to be about 25% based on the following assumptions: a 25-year project
evaluation period; first benefits in Year 2 and full development in Year 21;
all investment costs, excepting price contingencies, included; incremental
farm labor costs evaluated at Rs 41.0 million at full development; and all
inputs and outputs evaluated at projected 1980 market prices (expressed
in 1974 constant prices).
7.04      The sensitivity of the rate of return to each of the important
assumptions made in formulating and evaluating the project was tested. The
return was moderately sensitive to changes in benefits (the return declining
to 18% with a decrease of 25% in benefits) and to changes in costing incre-
mental farm labour requirements (the return rising to 28% when the incremental
labour was costed at zero). The return is, however, rather sensitive to the
rate of agricultural development, which emphasizes the need for an effective
extension service.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
' AJ1     Assurances have been obtained from GOI that:
(a) it would allocate yearly to the State of Rajasthan
between 1975 and 1984, fertilizer in the quantity and
of the types financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
(para 4.10).
Agreement was also reached with GOR on the following principal points:



- 27 -
(b) fertilizer in the quantity and of the types to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit would be
made available to farmers in Blocks A and B of the
project and all possible steps would be taken to
ensure that the balance of farmers' fertilizer
requirements over that part financed under the project
would be met (para 4.10); and
(c) GOR would levy and collect an irrigation charge in amounts
sufficient to cover the annual cost of operating and
maintaining the project facilities. These charges would
be adjusted periodically (para 5.24);
8.02      Proposed conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:
(a) that a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the
Association had been executed between GOI and ARC (para 4.23);
(b) the establishment of the CAA with organization, board
membership and powers satisfactory to the Association
(para 5.05); and
(c) the establishment of the RLDC with capitalization, board
membership and powers satisfactory to the Association
(para 5.06).
8.03      The proposed project would be suitable for an IDA Credit of US$83
million. The Borrower would be India.






ANNEX 1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Climatic Data
1.        The climate of the project area is semi-arid and three seasons may
be distinguished: the kharif or wet season (June to September), the cooler
rabi or winter season (October to February) and the very hot premonsoon sea-
son (March to May). Very strong and hot winds are common in the premonsoon
season causing severe sandstorms which blot out the countryside sometimes
for several days. The mean average yearly rainfall over the project area
is about 300 mm (Table 1), with wide variations from year to year.  Although
low temperatures are occasionally recorded, the average daily minimum for
the winter months is about 8C and the area is frost-free. Humidity varies
considerably, it is low during the premonsoon hot season, moderate during
the cooler rabi season and high during the latter part of the monsoon season.
Pan evaporation totals some 3,000 mm/year at Hanumangarh Research Farm.
2.        The main climatic constraint under non-irrigated conditions is the
short duration of the wet sea3on and the low and very variable rainfall.
Millet (bajra) and sorghum (jowar) can be raised in the kharif season if
rainfall is between 200 mm to 300 mm. Using stored soil moisture in above
average rainfall years, a crop of mustard or gram can be grown in rabi.






ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
Climatic Data
Station: Ganganagar (30-year record)
Air Temperature
Mean     Mean    Highest  Lowest   Mean                 Mean
Daily    Daily   in  the  in the  Relative    Mean      Wind
Month     Maximum  Minimum   Month  Month   Humidity Rainfall  Speed
----------------C-- -     - -  ---%-            --mm--- ka/hr
January       20.5      4.7    25.2       0.6     48        14.6      4.0
February      24.1      7.5    27.6       2.1     55         9.4       5.0
March         29.6     11.1    35.8       6.3     47        13.6       6.4
April         36.3     13.2    42.1      12.5    31          5.6       6.8
May           41.5     24.o    46.1      18.2    25         11.6       8.0
June          42.1     28.0   46.2       22.3     36        35.5    10.7
July          38.8    28.1    43.5    24.0    55            68.7      13.3
August        37.3     26.9    40.6      23.8    63         76.8       8.0
September     36.6     24.1    40.2      19.9     54        40.5       6.2
October       35.0     17.0    38.2      11.7    43          2.8       4.7
November      39.4      8.9    33.6       5.5     47         1.6       3.3
December      23.3      5.5    27.8       2.0     59         6.6       3.4
Average Annual Rainfall:, 287 mm






ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Topography and Soils
General
1.        The 1,150,000 ha RCP area is situated in the ancient inactive flood
plain of the eastern branches of the Indus River system. The 235,000 ha 1/
project area is located in the northwestern quadrant of the RCP project area
(Map 10884). In geologically recent times, parts of the flood plain alluvium
have been covered by wind blown sand dune formation, resulting in a gently
rolling topography interspersed by fairly large expanses of completely flat
land,
Topography
2.        The RCP area has been mapped by the Survey of India and the irri-
gation department at a scales of 1:63,360 and 1:15,840 with 1 ft contour
intervals in the flat parts of the area and 3 ft contour intervals in the
rolling parts. More than a quarter of the project area is in need of various
degrees of land leveling. Preliminary estimates indicate that approximately
32,000 ha of low to medium height dunes will have to be leveled using heavy
machinery.
Soils
3.        Two main soil groups have been identified, viz, flood plain soils
and aeolian soils. 2/ The flood plain soils are deep, calcareous and gen-
erally saline-alkaline (sodic) in varying degrees; they are highly strati-
fied and extremely variable within short distances; their water retention
capacity is good. The aeolian soils cover the sandy plains, parts of the
intez-dunal flats and the high dune areas. They are generally deep, coarse-
textured, calcareous, of low fertility, highly susceptible to wind erosion
and excessively permeable. An occasional calcareous hard pan at 50 - 100 cm
depth may reduce drainability. Both soil groups have been successfully ir-
rigated in Block B of the project.
I/   This includes 200,000 ha of irrigable land and 35,000 ha of unirrigable
high sand dunes.
2/   Semi-detailed soil surveys were carried out by GOR with UNDP assist-
ance in the UNDP/FAO Project, IND 24, "Soil Survey and Soil and Water
Management Research and Demonstration in the Rajasthan Canal Area".



ANNEX 2
Page  2
4.        A semi-detailed soil survey has grouped both soil types into
irrigation capability classes, withi constraints marked with an identifying
letter, as follows:
(s) = excessively sandy soil;
(t) = rolling topography requiring leveling; and
(d) = drainability, i.e. heavier soils with drainage
constraints. 1/
The irrigation capability is classed II, III, IV in descending order of
suitability. No soils below Class IV are included in the project area.
The following table gives the classification of the project area soils:
Irrigation Capability Classification             Block A   Block B   Total
--------h-ha-
Already irrigated                      36,000    72,000   108,000
Flood plain soils requiring
reclamation (IIId and IVd)           34,000        -       34,000
Low sand dunes requiring
leveling and shaping (IIIt
and IVt)                              30,000    28,000    58,000
Totals                100,000   100,000   200,000
5.        The high dune areas, covering an additional 35,000 ha of VIt soils
within the project area, have been excluded from irrigation development but
are proposed for sand dune stabilization and controlled pasture development
works.
b.        Some 34,000 ha of IIId and IVd soils, known locally as tal soils,
in Block A require reclamation by leaching and heavy plowing, associated
with minor soil amendments; of these areas some 17,000 lha are more severely
affected and would require reclamation by the project authorities. Farmers
-uldi reclain another 17,000 ha of less seriously affected tal soils by
themselves with technical supervision from the project.
7.        During project preparation, the irrigability of the IIId and IVd
class soils was investigated. Doubts about the irrigability of these soils
relate to both the apparently high level of salts and to the capability of
thiese hieavier lenticular soils to mainitain through-profile drainage.
Previous experimental work at Barore Research Farm, and by farmers in the
1/   These drainiage constraints relate to the top 50 cm of the soil profile
and have been successfully overcome during cultivation, which has in-
cluded leaching and plowing.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
project area had demonstrated that reclamation of these soils by leaching
(associated with wet paddy cultivation over periods of up to five years)
was feasible. However, it was concluded that more detailed and systematic
investigations would be needed. For this purpose, a number of experimental
plots were set up and additional soil sampling and testing carried out during
project preparation. Model treatments applied included the following,
singly and in combination:
(a) leaching;
(b) addition of gypsum;
(c) addition of farmyard manure;
(d) addition of sand; and
(e) growth of green manure crops.
8.        These experiments are still incomplete but results to date tend
to confirm that most of the tal soils are amenable to reclamation through
simple leaching. The investigations also indicated that chemical analyses
carried out by the UNDP project apparently overestimated the salt content
in these soils due to faulty methodology. Infiltration and permeability
tests showed, however, that certain sub-groups of the heavier and sodic tal
soils presented a more lasting problem although, again, these were not
believed to be intractable. Farms in this soil category were visited
during appraisal and the mission agreed with the earlier findings of a Bank
mission 1/ that these soils, estimated to be not more than 17,000 ha, would
require special attention under the project. The precise extent and location
of these soils would be finalized by the project authority, during detailed
land development surveys.  Before commencing with the reclamation work in
this area (including the lining of watercourses), GOR would complete the
experiments already initiated, as well as carry out an additional study of
reclamation techniques, their cost, and the economic justification of these
works. This study would help to determine the required subsidy level to
farmers who cultivate these soils, and the most appropriate reclamation
techniques. Results of the study would be forwarded to IDA within two
years of credit signing. For cost estimate purposes, the following works
and services were assumed to be carried out under the project:
(a) deep and repeated plowing by tractors;
(b) addition of gypsum;
(c) provision of additional water in a timely fashion for
accelerated leaching; and
1/   A mission of soils experts composed to Messrs. M. Fireman (IDA),
14. Peters (USBR) and R. Winger (USBR) appraised these soils in
June 1973. A detailed report is on file.



A'NEX 2
Page  4
(d) special supervision by the Extension Service including
introduction of practices proven on the research farm and
during on-farm reclamation trials.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
RAJAS THAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Works
A. Past Development
1.        The Rajasthan Canal Project was conceived in 1948 with the objective
of conveying part of India's share of the Indus waters, in a 214 Km feeder
canal through the intervening State of Punjab, to the northwest desert lands
oi Rajasthan. The Harike diversion barrage on the Sutlej River was completed
in 1952 and work then continued on the feeder canal. The Main Canal alignment
in Rajasthan was finalized in 1954 and the irrigation command area (Map 10883)
surveyed in detail between 1957 and 1960.
2.        On the basis of a detailed project report prepared by the Central
Water and Power Commission (CWPC), the project was approved by the Planning
Commission and sanctioned by GOR in 1958. Construction commenced in the
same year and in 1961 water became available in the upstream parts of Stage I
(Block B).
3.        From 1963 onwards, both the scope and the details of the project
were gradually modified and in 1971 GOR reported 1/ that the main features
of the revised project were to be as follows:
(a) Irrigation sources - Beas and Ravi Rivers;
(b) Storage Reservoirs - Pong (Beas River) and Thien (Ravi River);
(c) Link Canals - Connecting Thien reservoir to Beas River; and
Pandoh diversion dam on the Upper Beas River to the Bhakra
Dam on the Sutlej River.
(d) Annual Water Diversion: 9,900 Mm3 2/ at Harike Barrage on
the Sutlej River below its confluence with the Beas River;
1/   Government of Rajasthan "Report on Development of the RCP Command
Area", May, 1971.
2/   9,000 Mm3 is tentatively estimated as available in seven out of
ten years (see Annex 4).



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(e) Rajasthan Feeder Canal (lined): 214 km long from Harike
Barrage to the head of the Rajasthan Main Canal;
(f) Rajasthan Main Canal (RMC) (lined) 1/: 472 km long with
a head discharge of 530 m3/s;
(g) Distribution Systen (lined) 2/: Approximately 6,000 km
of branch, distributary and minor canals;
(h) Irrigation Command Area (net): 1,150,000 ha; 540,000 ha
in Stage I and 610,000 ha in Stage II;
(i)  Irrigation Intensity:  110%;
(j)  Irrigation Efficiency:  70%; and
(k)  Total Estimated Cost:  Rs 2,700 million (US$338 million).
4.        The 1971 report also stated that if funds were available to the
Rajasthan Canal Board at the rate of Rs 120 to 130 million per year, the RCP
could be completed in ten years.
5.        By the end of 1973, some 400 km of the Rajasthan Feeder Canal and
the RMC were completed, together with the entire distribution system for
Stage I; the distribution is still, however, unlined. Construction of the
Main Canal is continuing in the Stage II area.
6.        In 1966, IDA provided a Credit of US$23 million (89-IN) to finance
part of the equipment needed for the Pong Dam, the Pandah Dam, the Beas-
Sutlej link canal (Map 10884) and associated hydro-electric developments.
The remaining foreign exchange costs were financed by the United States.
With the commissioning of the Pong Dam in 1974, a perennial water supply
will be available for the Stage I area. The smaller Thien Reservoir on the
Ravi River, expected to be built during the next five years, will further
increase the available water supply.
B. Present Problems
7.        Throughout its twenty years' history, the project's progress has
always been constrained by insufficient budgetary allocations. Moreover,
irrigation criteria have altered greatly since the original project con-
cept; from a rather extensive irrigation concept the emphasis has changed
to intensive water application rates and a fuller use of the irrigated land.
1/   GOR decision to line the RMC was taken in 1963.
2/   GOR decision to line the distribution system was taken in 1967.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
In order to satisfy these requirements, 1/ with the same gross allocations
of water, the irrigation system (which originally was planned with only the
Rajasthan Feeder Canal lined) was gradually replanned with a fully-lined
distribution system; additional funds to date, however, have been provided
miinly for lining of the RMC.
8.        Considerable amounts of water are wasted today in the unlined
distribution canals and along the farmer-built watercourses serving the
individual farm holdings; the result is a limited and intermittent water
supply at the outlets to the farms.
9.        Water distribution to the fields and on the fields is also unsa-
tisfactory as the fields are poorly leveled and lack proper field channels.
After more than 10 years of irrigation, many farmers in Block B of Stage I
have managed to level only some 70% of their land and even this land is in
most cases only roughly leveled. On a large part of Block A, after three
to four years of irrigation, only 30% of the land is cropped annually. Block
B is fully settled but Block A is only sparsely inhabited and largely devoid
of essential infrastructure such as markets, roads, village water supplies and
dune stabilization works.
10.       The Government of Rajasthan (GOR), realizing the inadequacies of
the project as described above, has devised a six-year program to correct
the above deficiencies, on about 200,000 ha (40% of Stage I area). The
present project would constitute the first stage of development of the
whole command area of the Rajasthan Canal Project.
C.  Description of Project Works -
On-farm Development
11.       qLandSh2ij     - The project area is characterized by sand dunes and
interdunal flat lands (Annex 2). Some 58,000 ha of the sand dunes areas re-
quire land shaping and leveling. Land which can be leveled by the farmers
withiout project financial assistance during the six-year project imple-
mentation period is estimated at 26,000 ha. Experience in the adjacent
Gang-Bhakra irrigation project and the developed parts of Block B of the
project area indicates that farmers will carry out such leveling work grad-
ually on all plots requiring only a relatively small amount of leveling,
which a farmer can accomplish with his own resources. Leveling requirements
would be planned by the Command Area Authority (CAA) before the start of the
on-farm development program. General principles for establishing the rules
1/   See Annex 4 for discussion of water supply.
2/   Details of the road works are presented separately in Part D.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
and procedures have been discussed, and it has been estimated that farmers
would be expected to carry out some 1,500 m3 of excavation and fill and
that the remaining leveling would be carried out by the CAA. Project cost
estimates and machine requirements were based on the assumption that project
leveling would cover 32,000 ha and would require about 23 Mm3 of excavation
and fill.
12.       Adequate planning and estimation data for land leveling were
obtained during project preparation. About 6,000 ha in different soil cate-
gories were surveyed and land-leveling plans prepared; some 600 ha have been
leveled in 0.24 ha (one bigha) plots using different implementation tech-
niques. The Land Development Divisions in the CAA Irrigation Circles would
survey, design and supervise implementation of the land leveling work. Tech-
niques and methodology are given in Reference 1. Some 85,000 to 90,000 ha
of land would have to be surveyed and land leveling plans prepared in order
to identify the 32,000 ha of land, requiring project leveling. Implementa-
tion would be 60% by force account, 20% by locally contracted machine work
and 20% by manual and animal labor provided by small piece-work contractors.
13.       Watercourse Lining - Concurrently with the implementation of land
leveling on the chaks, some 5,800 km of watercourses would be lined. The
watercourses would be constructed for a minimum capacity of 57 1/s. Lining
would be by a 5 cm single-layer of brick tile set in cement mortar. The
lining was chosen after careful investigations of alternatives over a number
of years. 1/ The work would also include construction of division boxes,
bridges, culverts, falls and farm outlets, with one outlet for two farms.
The work would be carried out on a year-round basis by small contractors.
3rick tiles would be supplied by the Irrigation Department at the work sites
from kilns operated by brick supply contractors. A number of kilns would
have to be set up in the project area as output is limited by the availa-
bility of clay at each kiln site. The same kilns would also supply bricks
for the distribution system canal lining work (para 17), and for the con-
struction of project housing.
14.       Soil Reclamation - Up to 34,000 ha of the flood plain soils are of
moderate to severe salinity-alkalinity and require reclamation by leaching.
tialf this area is seriously affected. The formulation of a detailed program
for reclaiming these soils will have to await results of experiments to be
wrri& Gout under the project (Annex 2).  Favorable results have been achieved
on similar soils in neighboring districts with deep plowing and leaching, fol-
lowed by paddy cultivation over a period of up to five years. Project cost
estimates include funds for heavy plowing and some soil amendment works in
the most severely affected areas (17,000 h1a). This area is being demarcated
by an ongoing detailed soil survey.
1/   GOR Preparation Report "Land Shaping and Watercourse Lining", October, 1973,
and UNDP/FAO Project Report IND 24, 1971.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
15.       Field Channels - Each farm would be sub-divided into some 25 fields
of 0.24 ha each. Field channels would be required to convey water from the
farm outlet to the fields. Farmers in the project area and in the adjacent
Gang-Bhakra area have proved adept at constructilg these field channels.
They would, however, require some technical assistance in planning more
efficient layouts and for the construction of division and cross structures.
Plans for these would be drawn up by the Irrigation Department while design-
ing the watercourses and would be implemented by the farmers with the assist-
ance of project masons and under the guidance of project technicians.
Canal Lining Works
16.       Lining works have already been completed in some of the canal
stretches where heavy seepage has been observed. Proposed canal lining
works under the project in Blocks A and B include:
Length
(km)
(a)  Anupgarh and Suratgarh Branch Canal;            206
(b) Naurangdesar and Rawatsar Distributary
Canals;                                          72
(c)  Other small distributary canals; and            344
(d)  Minor canals.                                   293
Total                      915
Canal closures for lining would be closely coordinated with agricultural
operations so as not to interrupt essential water supplies to the farmers.
17.       For the canal lining,,the existing earth section would be reshaped
and then lined with a double layer of 5 cm thick brick tile set in cement
mortar. Various types of canal linings have been evaluated and brick tile
lining has been found most suitable, as no aggregate for concrete lining is
available in the project area. The work would be carried out by local con-
tractors under the supervision of the Irrigation Circles. The Irrigation
Circles would be responsible for the supply of materials for the contractors.
Construction materials would be supplied to the widely dispersed work sites
by contractors under separate supply and transport contracts.
Afforestation and Sand Dune Stabilization
18.       A detailed description of these works is given in Reference 2.
The project area is characterized by small irrigation commands interspersed
by shifting dunes. Most of the dune areas have not been allocated to set-
tlers.  Sand laden hot winds blow for three months during the early summer
blotting out the countryside, endangering exposed human and animal life,



ANNEX 3
Page 6
cutting road communications, damaging crops and silting canals and water-
courses. Experience from the adjacent Gang-Bhakra irrigation command areas
indicate that shelter belts along canals and roads are effective protection
from sand encroachment and for the subdivision of agricultural land into
sheltered blocks to protect crops and habitations.
19.       Control measures (fencing, planting of drought-resistant species)
on unallocated dune land would reduce dune movement and provide controlled
pasture development for the increased animal population of the area. The
project would complete forestry shelter belt work throughout Blocks A and B,
and continue with the ongoing dune stabilization program and would include:
(a)  Roadside plantation                                  220 km
(b)  Canal side plantation                             5,500 km
(c)  Irrigated village firewood plantations             1,800 ha
(d) Pasture development in uncommanded and
dune areas                                        35,000 ha
Village Water Supply
20.       Each village is planned for a population of approximately 1,000
persons. GOR had originally intended to construct basic services for all
villages in the project area but because of budgetary constraints, these
works were excluded and the proposed project would include water supply
facilities for 100 villages, largely in Block A. The only suitable source
of fresh water for the project villages is from the irrigation network.
Since the canals are operated on a rotational schedule with 10-day shut-
downs, storage tanks are necessary. Each village would be provided with a
brick lined storage tank of 2,000 m3 capacity for a 14-day supply, a gravity
flow arrangement for siltation, slow sand filtration, and chlorination and
a closed concrete well fitted with hand pumps for drawoff. The system would
be operated and maintained by the village panchayats under the supervision
of the GOR Water Supply Department (Annex 11).
D. Roads
Introduction
21.       Thie project would result in increased agricultural production, new
village settlements, expansion of existing villages and the development of
existing and new towns, particularly the market towns. The project includes
the construction of 431 km of paved roads to provide year-round access to
tkAe villages and to link the market towns to the rest of the country by an
expansion of the network within the project area. The roads included are
(Map 10884):



ANNEX 3
Page 7
Length
km
2 State Ilighways (Major Market Roads)   87
3 Major District Roads (Feeder Roads)   93
52 Village Roads                          251
Total               431
22.       There is a skeletal roads system in both Blocks A and B of the
project and the Rajasthan Public Works Department (PWD) is slowly extending
the State Highway network to serve these areas but much remains to be done,
especially in Block A, where two new markets are to be located (Gharsana
and Rawala) and 108 new villages are to be sited. A greater part of the
road program in length (58%) would be devoted to the construction of village
roads but three Major District Roads and two State Highways would also be
constructed to act as feeder and major market roads. Most of the roads are
aimed at helping the agricultural development of new areas and boosting
agricultural production in areas already under cultivation. The program
would enable the farmer to transport his marketable produce at lower cost.
Preparation of Road Program
23.       The road surveys, including soils and materials surveys, final
engineering and documentation would be undertaken by the PWD. The PWD would
establish a separate Circle for the detailed engineering and supervision of
construction. Preliminary traffic forecasts have been made and preliminary
engineering work has been carried out by the State PWD to enable cost esti-
mates to be prepared.  These cost estimates have been checked and updated
and they are satisfactory. The topography is flat, the materials and methods
of construction are traditional and no serious construction problems are an-
ticipated.
24.       The roads would be desi,gned for a life of 15 years, after which
rehabilitation works would probably be required. The pavement design would
be based on traffic volumes (Table 1) predicted for the period 1980-1994
when full agricultural production is expected to be achieved. The road
design standards are generally those adopted by the Indian Roads Congress
and they are satisfactory (Table 2). In order to maintain these roads under
desert conditions all roads, including the village roads, would have a bitu-
menised surface. No natural aggregates satisfactory for road pavement con-
struction are available locally. Crushed stone would be used in base con-
struction and the nearest source is Bikaner, about 130-160 km away from the
project area. Broken brick would be used as sub-base material and whole
bricks laid in sand would serve as hard shoulders. No major bridges are
required.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
Execution of Road Program
25.       General.  The PWD would employ local contractors to carry out the
road works and bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association would be
adopted. There are about 40 local contractors in the State who can execute
works to the value of Rs 10-20 million per year. The local contractors
usually hire equipment from the PWD and purchase of certain items of equip-
ment has been included in the project (Annex 7, Table 3). The equipment
would be the property of the PWD and, on completion of the works, would be
used for road maintenance. During the initial six-year construction period,
the equipment in good order would be made available on hire to project con-
tractors.
26.       Construction Schedule.  Construction would be phased over six years
as shown in the Implementation Schedule (Chart 8638).
27.       General Conditions of Contract.  The general conditions of con-
tract currently used in road construction contracts require certain amend-
ments to place the contractor in an equitable position in his contractual
relationship with the State Government. Similar problems exist for other
types of civil works contracts and GOR would amend the general conditions
of contract.
Description of Project Roads
State Highways (Major Market Roads)
28.       Gharsana Junction/Rawala/Berianwali (64 km).  This road commences
about 8 km from Gharsana on the Gharsana/Chattargarh Road and traverses the
middla of the southern part of Block A and terminates at the market town of
Berianwali. The northern part of Block A is already served by an existing
road and the extension would link the new markets to be established at
G(harsana and Rawala and would eventually form part of the State Highway
network linking the southern part of the command area with Bikaner. This
road is expected to carry a peak traffic volume of 400 vpd in 1994, mainly
truck and bus traffic.
29.       Jhakharianwali/Rawatsar Road (23 km).  Rawatsar is a major market
Lowli in Block B and is already linked to the State Highway network to the
east of Block B. The PWD has begun constructing a road running west to east
tlhrouglh Block B from Suratgarh, an important junction on the north-south
national highway. The road proposed in this project is the uncompleted
secti.n between Jhakharianwali and Rawatsar and the completed road would
provide outlets from Block B to the west and to the east. This road is
expected to carry a peak traffic volume of about 300 vpd in 1994. For each
of the above roads, about 60% of this traffic would consist of truck and bus
traffic.



ANNEX 3
Page 9
Nor District Roads (Feeder Roads)
30.       Salimpura/Sara Road (40 km). This road runs west to east across
the northern part of Block A and joins the north-south National Highway from
Bikaner to Ganganagar at Sara. It serves as a feeder road collecting all
traffic from farms and villages and leading it to the State Highway running
north to south to the west of Block A and the National Highway running north
to south to the east of Block A. This road is expected to carry a peak traf-
fic volume of about 240 vpd in 1994.
31.       Rawala/Khanuwali Road (20 km).  This road would serve as a feeder
road collecting all traffic generated by the agricultural production and
farm and village settlements on the southern part of Block A and leading
it to the market town of Rawala which will be linked to the State Highway
running north-south through Anupgarh and Gharsana. This road is expected
to carry a peak traffic volume of about 150 vpd in 1994.
32.       Thalarka/Munda Road (33 km). This road would serve as a feeder
road, collecting all traffic generated by agricultural production and farm
and village settlements in the north-east corner of Block B and leading it
to the State Highway passing through the market town of Rawatsar at the
Thalarka end and a major district road heading towards the market town and
rail head at Hanumangarh at the Munda end. This road is expected to carry
a peak traffic volume of about 240 vpd in 1994. For each of the above roads,
75% of this traffic will consist of truck, tractor (with trailer) and bus
traffic.
Village Roads (251 km)
33.       There would be 191 km of village roads in Block A and 60 km in
Block B. The roads would vary in length from 1 km to 20 km. They would
provide access to villages mostly in Block A. Table 3 shows the list of
village roads to be constructed in this project. The traffic volume ex-
pected is light and would not exceed 50 vpd for the whole period up to
1994. The village roads are not shown on Map 10884, as the precise loca-
tion of each road has to be finalized in consultation and agreement with
the CAA.






INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Traffic Forecasts for 19941/
Peak Heavy Traffic   Average Daily                    Average Daily   Average Daily
(Trucks, Tractors with  Light Traffic  Peak Traffic         Traffic           Traffic
Trailers & Buses)          (Cars)W/   (All Vehicles) (Heavy Vehicles) (All Vehicles)
A. State Highways
(MaJor Market Roads
M  GharsanaU awala4
Berianwali Road        240                  160            400              104              264
(ii) Jhakharianwali/Rawatsar
Road                   180                  120            300               78              198
B. Major District Roads
(i) Salimpura/Sara
Road                   180                   60            240               78              130
(ii) Rawala/Khanuwali
Road                   110                   40            150               42               82
(iii) Thalarka/Munda
Road                   180                   60            240               78              138
1/ Slow moving vehicles excluded.
/ Assumed to have no significant seasonal variation.



ANNEX 3
Table 2
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Design Standards for Roads
Major District     Village
Class of Road             Scate Highway         Road             Road
(Major Market Road)    (Feeder Road
Design Speed (km/h)               80.0               65.0             4o.o
Pavement width (m)                 3.8                3.8             3.8
Hard shoulder width (m)            1.7                1.7              -
Formation width (m)                9.5                9.5              7.2
Right of way (m)                  30.0               24.o             18.0
Stopping sight distance (m)      110                 90              50
Passing sight distance (m)       450                300             275
Maximum super elevation (%)        6.7                6.7              6.7
Minimum horizontal
radius (m)                    240                150              70
Pavement Design: In accordance with the Guidelines for the Design of
Flexible Pavements (Indian Roads Congress: 37-1970).
Source: Indian Roads Congress and Rajasthan PWD.



ANNEX 3
Table 3
P-age- I
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Village Roads -/
Block "A"                                                     Length (km)
1.  Approach Road from Sara/Salimpura Road to
Abadi No. 22 (1 BGM)                                          2
2. Approach Road from Sara/Salimpura Road to Abadis
Nos. 28, 20 (55 DP) and Malasar                               5
3. From Bijeynagar/Raisinghnagar Road to Abadi
No. 25 (6JRK)                                                 4
4. From Ramsinghpur to Sara/Salimpura Road linking
Abadis Nos. 41 (3 RBM), 43 (3 DJB), 44 (2 APD)               20
5. From Jetsar/Raisinghnagar Road to Bijeynagar/
Raisinghnagar Road linking Abadis Nos. 40 (11 BLM),
34 (10 BLM, Baluchia) and 69 (7 BLM)                         10
6.  From Road No. 2 above to 8 BLM                                3
7.  From Bijeynagar to Raisinghnagar Road to
Abadi No. 35 (5 BLM)                                          2
8. From Bijeynagar/Raisinghnagar Road to
Abadi No. 35 (4 BLD)                                          3
9.  From Sara/Salimpura Road to Abadi No. 31 (2 KM)               5
10. From Jetsar/Raisinghnagar Road to 15 BLD
& Abadi No. 42 (16 BLD)                                       3
11.  From Jetsar/Raisinghnagar Road to 23 APD                     15
12. From Raisinghnagar/Anupgarh Road to Abadi No. 45
(4 RTM, 5 UDM)                                                8
13.  From Abadi No. 47 A (13 APD) to Abadi No. 49 (14 APD)         4
14. From Salimpura/Sara Road to Abadis Nos. 9 (PTD)
and 55 (12 PTD)                                               5
1/   Abadi means village, 1 BOM, 4 BLD, etc. are reference symbols for
identification of the chaks where villages are sited.



ANNEX 3
Table 3
Page 2
Block "A" (contd.)                                             Length (km)
15.  From Salimpura/Sara Road to 6 PTD to Abadi No. 45A             2
16.  From Raisinghnagar/Anupgarh Road to Abadi No. 57 A
(7 LPM)                                                        1
17.  -rom Raisinghnagar/Anupgarh Road to Abadi No. 56 (3 BWM
via 19 PTD)                                                    7
18.  From Raisinghnagar/Anupgarh Road to Abadi No. 57 (22 PTD)   3
19.  From Raisinghnagar/Anupgarh Road to Abadi No. 58 and to
Abadi No. 26 (SJM) via Salimpura                               7
20.  From Raisinghnagar/Anupgarh Road to Abadi No. 61 (7 BWM)    2
21.  From Raisinghnagar/Anupgarh Road to 4 BNM                      4
22.  From Raisinghnagar/Anupgarh Road to 65 APM
via Abadi No. 64 & 5 APM                                       7
23.  From Raisinghnagar/Anupgarh Road to 4 LM
via Abadi Nos. 16 (2PGM) and 15 (9A)                          10
24. From approach road to Abadi No. 22 to Abadi No. 13 (4A)
via Abadi No. 5A                                               3
25.  From Anupgarh/Gharsana Road to Abadi (No. (3 K)                1.5
26.  From Anupgarh/Gharsana Road to Abadi No. 29 (6 P)              1.5
27.  From Anupgarh/Gharsana Road to Abadi No. 3 DD via Abadi
No. 40 (9MD), Abadi No. 8 (6 MD) and Abadi No. 28 (4 MD)    5
28.  Kupli/Gharsana Road to Abadi No. 3 (DD) via 2 JSM
and 27 AJM                                                     5
29.  Gharsana/Ramsinghpur Road to Kamrania via Abadis
Nos. 25 (2PM) & 26 (2 KM)                                      8
30.  From Anupgarh/Gharsana/Chattargarh Road to 1 FM
via 1 MLD, Abadi No. 45 (28 AS) & 9 DD                        10
31.  From Anupgarlh/Gharsana/Chattargarh Road to Abadi No. 46       4
32.  From Anupgarh/Gharsana/Chattargarh Road to 3 MM                2
33.  From Anupgarh/Gharsana/Chattargarh Road to Abadi No. 41
(12 ll) via 15 MD, 12 MD & 13 MD                              8
34.  From AnupgarhlGharsana/Chattargarh Road to Rawala Village   5
191



ANNEX 3
Table 3
Page 3
Block "B"                                                            Len8th (km)
1.  Approach road from Thalarka/Munda Road to village Kerala
Abadi No. 9                                                          3
2.  Approach road from Thalarka/Munda Road to Abadi No. 2
(Rampura)                                                            3
3.  From Rawatsar/Nohar Road to Abadi No. 16 (RWD)                       4
4.  From Tibbi/Chainya Road to Abadi No. 2 (MZW)                         2
5.  Ranjitpura to meet Munda/Meharwa Road via Abadi No. 16
and 3 including approaches to Abadi No. 5                           13
6.  Approach Road from Rawatsar/Nohar Road to Budwalia
Abadi No. 11                                                         2
7.  Approach Road from Tibbi/Chainya Road to Abadi No. 5 (2 MZW)         2
8.  Approach Road to Abadi No. 4 (1 NWM) from Rawatsar/
Aanumangarh Road                                                     2
9.  Approach Road to Arayanwali (22 NDR) from Pillibangan/
Rawatsar Road                                                        6
10.  Approach Road to Zorawarpura from Pillibangan/Rawatear Road          1
11.  Approach Road to 6 HLM from Zakhranwali/Rawatsar Road                2
12.  Approach Road to 6 HIM from Abadi No. 19 (31 NDR) from
from Pillibangan/Rawatsar Road                                       2
13.  Zakharanwali/Panditanwali Road to Abadi 22 (40 NDR)                  2
14.  Badopal/Zakhranwali Road to Abadi No. 3 (3 STP)                      4
15.  Pillibangan/Rawatsar Road to Abadi No. 23 (45 NDR)                   2
16. Approach Road to Nihalpura Abadi No. 25 (3 NSW)
from Road to Daulatabad ki Dhani                                     3
17. Approach Road to STB from Suratgarh/Badopal/
Zakhranwali Road                                                     2
18.  Approach Road to Rangmahal, 5 STB & 10 NSW from Suratgarh/
Badopal Road to Manak Theri                                          5
60
Source: Rajasthan PWD.






ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water Supply, Demand and Quai4ty
1.        This Annex includes:
Irrigation Water Supply - Storage and Diversion System
- RCP Canal conveyance system
capacity and efficiency
- Chaggar river flood diversion
and storage system
Irrigation Water Demand - Crop Water Requirements
- Gross Water Requirements
- Irrigation Water Balance
- Irrigation Water Quality
IrriEation Water SupplY - Storage and Diversion System
2.        Under the terms of the Indus Water Treaty the streamflow of the
Beas and Ravi rivers was allocated to India. The annual share of the RCP was
determined by the inter-state agreement as 9,900 Mm3 (para 6).
3.        The water storage regulation and diversion system is shown on
Map 10884 and principal capacity details are listed in Table 1. The
system so far completed consists of:
A Diversion Barrage at Harike on the Sutlej river;
A Regulating Storage Reservoir at Pong on the Beas river
(reservoir filling planned for mid-1974);
The M-B link canal from the Ravi to the Beas river;
The Rajasthan Main Canal completed for Stage I and continuing
to the Stage II area;
(An additional storage reservoir is also planned for early
completion at Thien on the Ravi river.)



ANNEX 4
Page 2
4.        The completed works at Bhakra Reservoir on the Sutlej River
serve the Bhakra Command Area which also benefits from the Pandoh Diversion
Dam and the corresponding B-S link canal from the Upper Beas River to the
Sutlej river above Bhakra; water surplus to Bhakra demand passes down the
Sutlej river and is available at Harike barrage for the Rajasthan Canal
Project system.
5.        The liarike barrage also serves the Gang canal command area in
Rajasthan through the Ferozpur Feeder link can.al and the Bikaner-Gang canal
system.  A link canal has also been completed from the Rajasthan Main canal
to the Bhakra canal to boost the supply to the Rajasthan sector of the Bhakra
command area; annual diversions on this link are small.
6.        Multi-purpose reservoir studies which have been conducted by
GWPC 1/ with the Indus (Beas, Ravi, and Sutlej Rivers) storage and diversion
system serving the RCP area, together with basic streamflow frequency
analyses, indicates that 9,000 Mm3 per year is available at Harike Barrage
for the RCP area in at least 70% of the years 2/. Hydroelectric power
production, a feature of the dam and link canal systems on the main rivers,
is generally consistent with irrigation demand; no difficulties are antici-
pated as releases for irrigation have priority in practice. Table 1 gives
relevant streamflow data at Herike barrage for the design water year adopted
by CWPC.
Raj_astthan Canal P  ct Convyacej ttm Clc y
7.        The RCP canal system (Map 10884) comprises:
(a) The Rajasthan Main Canal, of 530 m 3Is capacity, discharging
to:
(b) The Anupgarh Shaka Branch canal serving part of Block A of
the project area;
(c) The Suratgarh Shaka Branch canal serving Block B and the
northwest part of Block A of the project area;
(d) The Naurangdesar and Rawatsar Distributary canals supplied
directly from the Rajasthan Main Canal and serving part of
Block B; and
1/   CWPC is the Central Water and Power Commission.  This organization is
expected to carry out more sophisticated operations studies on the
Eastern Indus storage and diversion system with the objective of making
more intensive use of the available water resources; these studies
would be completed well before Stage II of the RCP is completed in
10 to 15 years' time.
2/   This is a tentative appraisal only and subject to modification when the
hydrology is thoroughly reviewed by CWPC.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
(e) The network of distributary and minor canals supplied from
the Branch canals and serving the watercourses within the
individual 120 ha irrigation service units (chaks).
Only the main canal is presently lined. The unlined distributary canals are
designed to carry 0.4 litres/sec/ha of net command area with about 33%
additional discharge capacity after lining (when freeboard is slightly
reduced); chak watercourses have at least 50% additional discharge capacity
over their original design. Safe operation of these canals at high capacity
during summer peak irrigation demand, is dependent on their being lined as
proposed in the project. The Rajasthan Feeder and Main canal will have
considerable spare capacity until the Stage II area is developed. Thereafter
it will be fully utilized and would have sufficient capacity to meet the
likely peak monthly demands; under pre-project conditions, the overall system
efficiency (conveyance and application) does rLot exceed 40%. After project
implementation overall efficiency is projected at 65%. Further improvement
in overall efficiency can be foreseen within ten to fifteen years with the
impact of better on-farm water distribution and improvement of field water
application techniques for specific crops.
Ghaggar River Flood Diversion and Storage System
8.        In recent years, floods from the Ghaggar River have threatened
the Hanumangarh urban and rural areas. A river diversion channel discharg-
ing into a system of 16 flood storage reservoirs was therefore constructed
and is expected to be in service in 1974. This flood water contributes to
the ground-water recharge of the narrow belt of land between Blocks A and B;
supplementary surface water irrigation is also expected to be occasionally
available by direct supply from these reservoirs. The flood diversion and
storage features are shown in Map 10884.
Irrigation Water Demand
Cro! Water Requirements
9.        Experimental work on crop water requirements in the project area
commenced in 1967/68 at Hanumangarh and Barore Research Farms. About three
years valid data is available.
10.       In the extremely arid climate, close estimation of plant consumptive
use was difficult. An approach relating the water requirements to crop
yields was therefore developed on the two research farms. Based on soil
moisture analyses, on measured relationships between consumptive use and
open pan evaporation, and Blaney Criddle evapotranspiration estimates,
irrigation schedules were set up for the range of crops to be grown in
the project area, viz. wheat, cotton, fodder, pulses, paddy, and oil seeds.
These irrigation schedules were then applied on the research farms, tested,
and modified in the light of the resulting crop yields obtained, taking
into account the rainfall actually experienced.
11.       On these bases and taking into account an effective rainfall of
140 mm (compared with the annual average value of 280 mm), the projected



ANTEX 4
Page 4
monthly crop water requirements for the projected cropping pattern were
determined (Table 2). Standard irrigation applications are usually 75 mm
and 100 mm varying with local field experience.
Grs  ater Reuirements
12.       The net monthly irrigation water requirements in the field
were converted to monthly irrigation diversion demand at Harike barrage,
using the overall (application and conveyance) efficiencies of 65% with-
project and 40% without-project; the respective cropping intensities are
130% and 90% (the latter with Pong Reservoir). These values are summarized
in Table 2.
Irrigation Water Balance
13.       The water supplies available at Harike barrage and the water demand
for the Stage I RCP development, including the proposed CAD project, are
shown in Tables 1 and 2.
14.       For conservative assumption of water demand in the future, two
assumptions were checked: (a) that the whole of the 540,000 ha Stage I
would be developed to the same intensity as the 200,000 ha project area;
this results in a gross annual water demand of the order of 5,100 Mm3; and
(b) that, after serving the 200,000 ha project to the full planned intensity
the balance of 340,000 ha in Stage I would be supplied only through
unlined canals, resulting in an unimproved irrigation efficiency of 40% and
a corresponding cropping intensity of 90%; this gave an annual gross water
demand at HIarike of the order of 5,300 Mm3. Details are given in Table 2.
15.       A similar procedure was carried o-ut for full development of the
RCP project (Stage I & II), i.e. when the whole 1.15 million ha are planned
to be irrigated 10 years to 15 years from now. This balance is, of course,
indicative only. The conclusion reached was the RCP area could be fully
irrigated under conditions similar to (a) or (b) in para 14 above, only
if an increase in irrigation efficiencies were achieved, through channel
lining and improved water practices. Monthly reservoir releases would
also have to be adjusted in order to meet this demand. If the anticipated
increases in irrigation efficiency were not realized, it would not be pos-
6 ble to irrigate the entire RCP area and sustain a 130% cropping intensity.
1.       Tie irrigation canal system capacity is adequate to meet demands
for the projected cropping pattern except in August and October in
exceptionally drv years; for such years irrigation quantities will have
to be reduced resulting in slightly reduced yields of pulses and fodder.
Irrigation Water Quality
17.       The canal water is derived from the well proven Ravi and Beas River
water and is of high quality (ClSl) 1/ suitable for sustained irrigation.
1/   UNDP/FAO Report SF/IND (Technical Report No. 3).



ANN3 4
RAJASTHAN CANAL CC[*AD AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water Supply
A , Reservoir Capacity (Live Storage) on Besas and Ravi Rivers
Beas River: Pong Reservoir (existing)           4,1c0 mm3
Ravi River:  Thien Reservoir (planned)          2,300 Mm3
B. Rajasthaxi Main Canal (RMC) Capacity
Peak discharge capacity at Cana3l Head.           530 m3<  (18,500 ft3/sec)
Peak monthly capacity                           1,370 Mm
C. Annual Water S%pplies to RMC                              1/
CWC design water year diversion to RMC          9,400 Mm3$/
70", dependable water year diversion to RMC     9,000 MM3
D. Avoilable Diversions to Rajasthan Canal at Harike Barrage
(CwPC design water year, based on period 1921-L46)
Mcnth and     Unre*ilated.     Releees from Storage
Period          Flow        Thien?-    Pong   Bhakra          Total
-(-ft./s)                           -                   at
June 11-20       8,972          -       1,625      -      10,597
June 21-30      12,379          -         -        -      12,379
July            12,066          -         -        -      12,066       918
AUugust         12,06           -         -        -      12,066       918
SGpt 1-10       13,633          -         -        -      13,633    1,OO4
Sept 11-20      13,633          -         -        -      1 ,633
Sept 21-30       9,053          -       4,580      -      13,633
October          3,008          -      12,662      -      15,6?0    1,,172
November         1,985          -      10,551      -      12,536       923
Decemnber       2,1t.4         -       5,821      -       7,835       596
January          1,129        3,576       -      1 ,563    6,268       477
February         3,119          -       6,,91 0    -      10,,029      689
YLTirch          3,857          702     5,470      -       10,029      762
AprilL           5,126          -       1,612       -       6,738      496
Ylay             6,798          -         254      -        7,052      536-
June 1-10        8,0405         -       3,974      -       12,379      867
Total (Mm3)                                                          9,378
1/ This value is derived from CWPC reservoir operation studies.
/7 This is an order of magnitude only based on a tentative appraisal Of the
dependable water resources. COWPC is expected to update and reappraise
its hydrological studies of the Ravi, Beas and. Sutlej Rivers within the
next few yoars, well before Stage II of RCP is operational.
3/ After constrmction of Thieon Dam.



INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL CCMMAND AREA DEVELOPWNT PROJECT
1/
Monthly Water Requirementsaat Fteld Plot and Corresponding Water Demand at Harike Barrage
P r e s e n t C r o p p i n g P a t t e r n
-Sugarcane-   --Cotton---   - MilLet -    --Pulses---   --Fodder---   Groundnuts    ---Paddy---    ---Wheat---   --Mustard--   ---Gram---   Total                  Water Demand
Cropped Area (ha)        0.01           0.16           0.06           0.12            0.30           0.02           0.02           0.25            0.15           0,08         0.90  At Harike Barrage
mm   mi/ha    mm   m3iha    m   m3/ha    m          37a    mm_    m m3/ha   m_   m3ha   -mm   m/ha    mm m3/ha    mm   m3/ha    mm m3/a  m3/ha    for 340,000 ha_/
January                 -     -       -       -      -       -                                                                    -      -       75      60     75      60      120            102
February                100   10      -       -      -       -          -           -      -       -      -        -      -      75      180    75       60    100      80      330            281
March                   -     -       -       -      -       -          -           -      -       -       -        -     -       75     180    -        -       -      -       180             153
April                    75   10      -       -      -       -      -               75     25      -       -       -      -      150     360    -        -      -       -       395             336
May                     150   20    100   160        -       -      -               75     25      -       -        150   30      -      -       -       -      -       -       235             200
June                    225   30      75   120       -       -      -              150     50      75      20      150   30       -      -                              -       250            212
July                    225   30    150   240        75      45     75      90    150      50      75     20       225   50       -      -       -       -       -      -       525            446
August                  225   30    175   320        75      45     75      90      75     25      75      20      300   60       -      -       -       -       _      -       590             502
September               200   20    100   160        75      45    100    120       75     25    150      40       300   60       -              -       -              -       470            399
October                 100   10    150   240        75      45     -       -       -      -      100      30       75   10       -      -       75      60     75      60      455             386
November                100   10      -     -        -       -      -       -       -      -       -      -        -      -      75      180    75       60     -       -       250             213
December               100   10       -              -         -  -                        -       _      -        -      -      75      180    -       _               -       190            162
Total:          1,500  130    750 1,240        300    180    250    300    600    200    475    130    1,200  240    450   1,080   300    240    250    200   3,990                     3,392
P r o i e c t e d   C r o p p i n g    P a t t e r n
Berseem                   Water Demaind
Sugarcane      Cotton   X4illet       Pulses      Fodder      Groundnuts      Paddy      Wheat      Mustard       Gram      & Others       Total   ZWU,OWO   540,UDo 4/
Cropped Area (ha)         0.01         0.23       0.0           14        0.05          0.05         0.03       0.35        0.12          0.25        0.02        1.30   he area   -he- rea
---------------h-------------------------------------------------------------  3/ha ------------------------------------------------------                      ----
January                    -            -           -          -           -             -              -         -            90         180           20          290          89        241
February                   10           -           -          -           -             -             -        200            90         250           20          570        175        473
March                      -            -           -          -           -             -              -        260           -           -            30          290          89        241
April                      10            -          -          -           40            -              -        520           -           -            50          620         190        514
May                        20            230        -          -           40             -             50        -            -           -            20          360         110        299
June                       30            180        -          -           80            40             50        -            -           -            -           380         117        315
3uly                       30            350        40        110          80            40             70        -            -           -            -           720         221        598
August                     30            400      - 40        110          40            40             90        -            -           -            -           750         230        622
September                  20            230        40        140          40            80             90        -            -           -            20          660         203        548
October                    10             350       40         -           -              50            20        -            90         180           20           760        233        631
November                   10           -           -          -           -              -             -        260           90          -            20           380        116        315
December                   10                       -          -           -             -              -       260            -           -            20          290          89        241
Total               180           1,740       160       360         320            250           370    1,500           360         610           220        6,070      1,862      5,038
Grand Total Stage I:   5,254
1/ Water requirements are net of effective rainfall and based on actual water use at Hansaugngrh Research Farm. Paddy is grown only on the heavy tal soils.
2/ Water demand for 340,0no ha at 407. irrigation efficiency (540,000 ha - 200,000 he).
3/  Rounded.
4/  Water demand for 540,000 ha at 65% irrigation efficiency.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMIAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Colonization
Back~ound
1.        According to the 1961 Census, the RCP area had a population of
188,000 with an average density of 5 persons per square km. Concurrently
with the introduction of irrigation, GOR embarked on a settlement (coloniza-
tion) program with the twin objectives of land reform and permanent settle-
ment of the area. Most of the land in the project area belonged to the
GOR. The program consisted of the:
(a) demarcation of land commanded by the RCP irrigation
system;
(b) subdivision of the command area, on a rectangular basis,
into uniform farms of 6.32 ha each (1 meruba);
(c)  resettlement of existing land owners with heritable and
transferable rights on the new rectangularized farm holdings;
(d) permanent land allotment to pre-1955 tenants of the area;
(e) permanent land allotment to various categories of farmers,
with priority given to landless agricultural laborers of
nearby villages and farmers resident in Rajasthan State
before 1955; and
(f) permanent land allotment to a limited number of people in
special categories.
2.        Responsibility for implementing this program was vested in the
Colonization Department, set up for this purpose in 1955. The cadastral
survey and mapping was entrusted to the Survey of India and to the Irrigation
Department (RCP).
Legis lat ion
3.        A number of laws have been enacted to give legal sanction to the
various colonization measures. Colonization rules were promulgated under
the acts. To date, the legislation comprises:
(a) The RaJasthan Colonization Act;
(b) The Rajasthan Colonization (General Colony Conditions)
Rules 1955;



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(c)  The Rajasthan Tenancy Act 1955;
(d)  The Rajasthan Colonization (Pre-1955 Temporary Tenants,
Government Land Allotment) Conditions 1971;
(e)  The Rajasthan Colonization (Post-1955 Temporary Tenants,
Temporary cultivation leaseholds); and
(f)  The Imposition of Ceilings on Agricultural Land Holdings
Ordinance 1973.
Land Allotment
4.        The standard land allotment unit is 6.32 ha (1 meruba).  Alloca-
tion is by lottery among qualified farmers. An experimental sale of 200
lots in 1969 raised political difficulties and was immediately abandoned.
The terms on which holdings are allocated are as follows:
(a)  Pre-1955 Tenants - can obtain rights to 1 meruba at no
financial cost (and they may acquire a second meruba, at
a cash cost of Rs 16,755;)
(b)  Tenants - whose rights were attributed between 1955 and 1960
can obtain 1 meruba at a cost of Rs 16,755; this payable
by members of scheduled tribes and castes over a period of
17 years and by others by paying i's 5,000 in the first year
and the balance over a period of ; years; and
(c)  Tenants - whose rights were attributed after 1960 may acquire
I meruba by a cash payment of Rs 16,755.
5.        Existing land holdings above the land ceiling (Agricultural Land
Holdings Ordinance 1973) revert to the State for redistribution. Land
reservations for public purposes cover village and market sites and canal
reserves.
Persons Qualified for Land Allotment
The following priorities in land allocation were used:
(a)  Pre-1955 landless farmers (temporary cultivators);
(b)  Post-1955 farmers (temporary cultivators);
(c)  Landless farmers belonging to the village in which land
is distributed;
(d)  Landless farmers belonging to the Tehsils 1/ in which the
land is situated;
l/   Tehsil Is the standard subdivision of an administrative district.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
(e) Landless farmers of other Tehsils in the district; and
(f) Other landless farmers belonging to other districts of
Rajasthan.
7.        In addition, certain special categories of allottees have been
defined by the Government. These are strictly limited in number and include
displaced farmers from the reservoir area of the Pong Dam, ex-landlords,
resettled soldiers and their dependents.
Proess of Colonization
8.        The status of land allocation at December 1972 was as follows:
Land already allotted                115,000 ha
Reserved land in temporary
occupation                      110,000 ha
Unalloted land                       161,000 ha
386,000 ha
As at December 1972 the balance of 154,000 ha in Stage I had apparently
come within the detailed planning procedures of the Colonization Department.
9.        During 1973, land allocation continued at an accelerated pace.
GOR's intention is that all available land in Blocks A and B would be
permanently alloted before July 1974. The Colonization Department has
recently been reorganized and strengthened and is now working to stricter
timetables. All chak maps for the project area are already in the hands
of the Colonization Officers. Eligible settlers are available for the land
remaining to be allotted, many of whom now cultivate land in Block A and
the western part of Block B on a temporary lease basis.






ANNEX 6
Table 1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Cost Estimates
Foreign
Exchange
Item                  Local  Fore'gn  Total  Local  Forein  Total          %
----Rs Million -    ---     US$ Millaon------
Infrastructural Works
1. Canal lining (Table 2)       233.6   42.4    276.0  29.2       5.3    34.5    15
2. Roads (Table 3)               54.4    6.4      60.8   6.8      0.8      7.6    10
3. Afforestation (Table 4)       40.0    4.8      44.8   5.0      0.6     5.0o   10
4. Village Water Supply
(Table 5)                  14.4    1.6      16.0   1.8      0.2      2.0    10
Sub-Total              342.4   55.2    397.6  42.8       o.9    49.7
5. Land Development Works
(Table 6) -               234.4   58.4    292.8  29.3       7.3    36.6    20
6. Supplementary Fertilizer       8.o  149.6    157.6   1.0    18.7    19.7    95
Sub-Total              584.8  263.2    848.0  73.1    32.9   106.0
Physical Contingencies        49.6   10.4      60.0   6.2      1.3     7.5    17
Sub-Total              634.4  273.6    908.0  79.3    34.2   113.5
Expected Price Increases   296.4   94.5    390.9  37.1    11.8    48.9    24
Sub-Total              930.8  368.1  1,298.9 116.4    46.0   162.4
7. Project Administrative
Operating Costs during
IZi1am eni ntatlion
(Table 7)                  63.2    6.4      69.6   7.9      0.8      8.7    10
Expected Price Increases    21.2    2.3        23.5   2.6      0.3     2.9    10
Sub-Total               84.4    8.7      93.1  10.5      1.1    11.O
Total Project Cost  1,015.2  376.8  1,392.0 126.9    47.1   174.0    27



ANNEX 6
Table 2
MIA
R.AJASTHLN CAiL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMOT PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Canal Linirng
Ifter                     lantity   Unit    Rate    Total Cost
T97       (Rs II)
1 . Earthwork                        915       km     45,800       41.9
2~Lininjg
Amupagarh i Suratgarh
Branches                   206      km    528,000       108.8
Naurangdesar & Rawatsar
Distributaries              72      km    25c,oo0        18.0
Other Distributary
Canals                    3344      km    143,000        49.02
Minor Canals                  293       km     66,000       19.3
Sub-Total                915                          237 .2
3.  Miscellaneous works                .LS              .           2i3
4. h;ngtneerang and Administration    .         .                  36.0
Sub-Total                                             276.0
5. Physical Contingencies (10,)                                     24.C
Tltal                                             300.C



ANNEX 6
Table 3
M:IA
RAJASTHAN CAuNAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Roads
Item                          LCnth         Cost
(Rs M)
1.  Land Acquisition                                      e4o3
2.  Construction of New Roads
A.  State Hi ahways (Major Market Roads)
i Gharsana/Rawala/Berianwal-a Road            64          10.4
(ii)  Jhakharianwali/Rawatsar Road             23           307
B. Major District Roads (Feeder Roads)
(i)  Salimpura/Sara Road                      40           6.9
(ii)  Rawala/Kha,uwali Road                    20           3e3
(iii)  Thalarka/Muncda Road                     33           5e4
C.  Other Roads (Village Roads)                     251         21.6
Sub-Total                       431          51.3
3. Administration, Design and Supervision                             2.0
4. Vehicles and Equipment 1/                                          3.2
Sub-Total                                    60.8
5.  Physical Contingencies (10%)                                      5.6
Total                                    66.4
1/ For proj,ect supervision and hire to contractors. After project
completion, the equipment would be used for road maintenance.



ANNEX 6
Table 4
TNDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA. DEVELOPMENT PROE CT
Cost Estimates:  Afforestation
Ttem             Quantity   Unit       Rate    Total Cost
(Rb)      (Rs M)
Roadside plantation            223      km     5,800         1.3
Canalside plantation         5,500      km     2,100        11.5
Village firewood
plantation                1,800      ha     2,500         4.5
Pasture development         35,000      ha        440       15.4
Equipment                                                    2.2
Buildings                                                    1.3
Administration &
supervision                                               8.6
3ub-Total                                            44.8
Phys3ical contingencies
( 1i 03) .3
Total                                            48.1



ANNEX 6
Table 5
INIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Village Water Supplies
Item                  Quantity    Unit    Rate        Total Cost
~ T-    ((Rs M)
Rawi water storage tank           100       No.    51,000         5.1
Reinforced concrete slow
sand filter                    100       No.    51,000         5,1
Reinforced concrete clear
water tank                     100       No.    21,000          2.1
Handpump                          100       No.      5,500        0.5
Chlorination plant                100       No.      2,000        0.2
Buil dingo                        100       Not    14.,000        1.4
Sub-Total                                                   1 44
Administration - 10%                                               1e4
Vebhicles                                                          0.2
Sub-Total                                                   i 6. O
Physicaa contingencies - 10%                                      1i4
Total                                                   17 .4



ANNEX6
Table 6
INDTA
?At ASTRA1NJ CANAL COMMAN3) AREA DEVhLOPMN   PROJJECT
Ccst i stimnates: Land Development
item                  QUantity    Unit   Rate    Total Cost
(Rs     (Rs5M)
10  ILand Shaping
Survey & layout            87,000       ha       100        8.7
Leveling and grading       32,000       ha     1,498       47.9
Sub-Total                                              56 . 6
2. Watercou rse Lining
Channel shaping                         ha       114
Structures                     .        ha        93
Brick liniing                           ha       514
Sub-Total             200,000      ha        721      144.2
3. Soil Reclamation
(provisiona,l)             17,000      ha        800       13.6
4.  On-Farm Field Channels
(provisional)             200, 000      ha       192       38.4
5. Engineering &
Administration - 15%                                       30.2
o;  Ternporury Btiildings                                          9.8
Sub -Total                                            292.8
7.  Pbysical Contingencies
Land shaping - 20;                                          il.3
Watercourses - 10%                                         14.5
Total                                             318.6



ANNEX 6
Table 7
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Project Operating Costs
Total Cost
Annual Cost at    During Project
FU11 Development   Implementation
----Rs Million-
0 & M of Irrigation System
Staff                                       1.2
Maintenance of canal liningI/               6.o
Total: Irrigation System               7.2              43.2
Note: Annual cost is equivalent
to Rs36/ha
Extension & Research
Extension Service2/
Staff                                    2.9
Other annual costs                       0.9
Sub-Total:                            3.8
Research3/
Staff                                   1.0
Other annual costs including
travel allowances, maintenance
of building and vehicles,
replacement of equipment              O.6
Sub-Total:                            1.6
Total: Extension & Research           5.4               26.[-!/
Total: Project Operating Costs                          69.6
1/ Estimated at 3% per year of present net value of lining (Rs200 million).
2/ Details are given in Reference 3.
3/ Costs chargeable to the Project are 50% of the total,
by/ Full cost reached in Year 3.






ANNEX 7
INDIA
RAJASTHAUN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Equipment Requirements
1.        Estimated equipment requirements for project management, for
construction of the force account portions of the project works (para 4.18),
and for hire to contractors, in tie case of roads, are listed in the
following tables. These lists should be used a guide only and would be revised
as detailed project planning progresses, and more experience is gained with
various construction methods. This is particularly so for on-farm develop-
ment works, and therefore, the services of an expert (recruited under the
Chambal Project) would be available to assist in equipment selection. It
is also proposed that the second batch of on-farm development equipment be
ordered following field evaluation of the initial order and a decision that
the balance of the on-farm development works would be executed by force account.
A nine-month delivery period for imported equipment has been assumed.
2.        Prices shown in the tables are in late-1973 currency values.  To
obtain expected actual costs, price contingencies are computed as follows:
----IDA Fiscal Year-----
Item                            1974/5    1976/6   1976/7   Total
--           -- ------- Rs Million---------
Land Development (Table 1)                        33.1       -        4.4      37.5
Irrigation (Table 2)                              20.0     5.1         -       25.1
Road Equipment (Table 3)                           3.8       -         -        3.8
Forestry (Table 4)                                 2.2       -         -        2.2
Village Water Suppy (Table 4)                      0.3       -          -       0.3
Agricultural Support Services (Table 5)            1.7       -         -        1.7
Sub-Total                              61.1      5.1        4.4     70.6
Price Contingencies - %                          (14)      (25)     (32.5)   (16)
Price Contingencies - Rs Million                   8.6      1.3        1.4     11.3
Total                                  69.7      6.4        5.8     81.9
Total Cost of Equipment:                          US$10.2 million
of which, foreign exchange (90%):                 US$ 9.2 million






ANNEX 7
Table 1
Pae 1
IND 1A
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
.Equipment List: Land Development
(,land Shaping and Lining Watercourses)
Unit               Method oL'
Item                        Quantity   Price    TotaIl   Procurement!/
---Rs '000----
1  Land Shaping
i) General
Field vehicles (jeeps)           30         30       900        RP
Workshop equipment and
tools                          -        LS        200        LCB
1o,bile workshop                  4        175       700        LCB
1i:4ricator truck                 3        100       300        ICB
Four-wheel drive trucks, 5 ton 32          100     3,200        RP
Trailer tractors                 12          6        72        LCB
Water tanker                     25          5       125        RP
Diesel tanker, 5 ton              4        100       400        RP
Sub-Total                                                5,897
Spare Parts - 15%                                              883
Sub-Total                                                 6,780
(ii)  Xeavy Land Sh  ing Equipment
Bulldozer 90-105 hp with'
attachments                   31       323    10,013         ICB
Carryall Scraper 4-6 cu yd       28        100     2,800        ICB
Wheel Tractor 75-90 hp           49         oO     2,940        ICB
Drag Scraper 3-4 cu yd           49         15       735        LCB
Motor Grader                      7        250     1,750        IOB
40-ton Trailer and Tractor        1       500        500        ICB
Lubricator Truck                  4       100        400        IOB
Support Equipment                 -         LS       416        LCB
Sub-Total                                               19,554
Spare Parts - 25%                                            4,88?
Sub-Total                                                24,443
Sub-Tbtal (i) + (ii) (carried forward)                   31,223
1/ IOB - International Competitive Bidding.
LCB - Local Competitive Bidding.
RP - Reserved Procurement.



ANNEX 7
Table 1
Page I
Unit              Method of
Item                        Quantity   Price    Total   Procurementl/
--- Rs '000----
Sub-Total (i) + (ii) (brought forward)                 31,223
2. Watercourse Lhinin EquiPRment
Four-wheel drive trucks.,
5 ton                           40       100      4,000       RP
Field vehicles                     40         30     1,200        rP
Pump set                           50          5       250       LCP
Sub-Total                                               5,450
Spare Parts - 15%                                            818
Sub-Total                                               6,268
Total                                              37,491
1/ ICB - International Competitive Bidding.
LCB - Local Competitive Bid(ding.
HP - Reserved Procuremnt.



ANNEX 7
Table 2
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL CONMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Equipment List: Irrigation
(Canal Lining and Operation and Maintenance)
Unit               Nlethod of
Item                        Quantity   Price    Total   Procurement2i
---Rs ' -00
Project Management
Field vehicles (jeeps) including
15% spare parts                     10        35        35o       RP
Survey equipment                        -        LS        o20        LCR
Office and Design equipment             -         LS       100        LCB
Operation & Maintenance equipment,
field vehicles (jeeps) including
15% spare parts                     50        35      1,75o       RP
Sub-Total                                             2,820
Construction Equipment (Canal Lining)
Traxcavator                            12       900    10,800         ICB
Four-wheel drive transport trucks,
5 tons                              24       100      2,400       kp
Diesel Tanlcer                          1       100        100        RP
Bulldozer, 90-105 hp with attach-
ments                               12       323      3,876        ICB
Pump set                              100          5       500        LCB
Workshop equipment and tools            -         LS       200        LCT
Field vehicles                         50         30     1,500        RP
Sub-Total                                            19,376
Spare Parts - 15%                                        2,904
Sub-Total                                            22,280
Total                                           25,100
1/ ICB - International Competitive Bidding.
LOB - Local Competitive Bidding.
RP - Reserved Procurement.






ANNEX 7
Table 3
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Equipment List: Roads (Construction and Maintenance)
Unit             Method of
Item                        Quantity   Price   Total   Procurrm. entl/
Construction
Rollers                              12        105    1,2vO       ICB
Bitumen Mixers, 6-10 ton              5         75      375       ICB
Tar Boilers                          20          8      160       LCB
Sand Ploughs                          1       200       200       LCB
Bulldozers, 180 hp                    2       450       900       ICB
Field vehicles                        4         30      120       RP
Spare Parts - 15%                     -         -       400
Sub-Total                                          3,415
Maintenance
Field vehicles including Spare       12         35      420       RP
Parts
Total                                         3,835
1/ ICB - International Competitive Bidding.
LCB - Local Competitive Bidding.
RP - Reserved Procurement.



ANNEX 7
Table 4
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMKAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Equipment List: Forestry and Village Water Supplies
Unit             Mcthod of
Item                       Quantity   Price   Total   Proc urernent-L
---Rs ' 00-
Forestry
Field vehicles, including 15%
Spare Parts: construction        18        35      AS30      RP
maintenance          4        35      140       VP
Equipment                            _        LS    1, 430
Sub-Total                                        2,200
Village Water Supplies
Field vehicles, including 15%
Spare Parts: construction         4        35      140       RP
maintenance          4        35      140       RP
Sub-Total                                          280
Total                                        2, 480
1/ RP - Reserved Procurement.



ANNEX 7
Table 5
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Equipment List: Agricultural Support Services
Unit              Method of
Item                        Quantity   Price   Total   Procurementi/'
---Rs '000---
Extension Service
Field vehicles                         1lI       30       420        RI"
Bicycles, motorcycles, etc.            30         6       1 8(0      LCIB
Motorcycles                           144         2.5     35"0       LCD
Spare Parts - 15%                      -          -       140
Sub-Total                                            1,100
Research Service
Field vehicles, including 15%
Spare Parts  .                      10       35        350        RP
Laboratory and field equipment          -        LS       200        LOBt
Sub-Total                                              550
Total                                            i,650
1/  RP  - Reserved Procurement.
LCB - Local Competitive Bidding.






ANNEX 8
Table t
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures
Total               IDA Fiscal Years
Item             Cost  1974/5 1975/6 1976/7,1977/8 1978/9 1979/80
---------------Rs Million-
Infrastructural Wbrk
1. Canal Lining         276.0   22.1   33.1   55.2   55.2   55.2   55.2
2. Roads                 61.1    4.9    7.3   12.3   12.2   12.2   12.2
3. Afforestation         45.1    3.6    5.4    9.o    9.o    9.0    9.1
4. Village Water Supply 15.4    1.2    1.9   3.1    3.1    3.1    3.0
Sub-Total          397.6   31.8   47.7   79.6   79.5   79.5   79.5
5. Land Development    292.8   43.9   58.6   73.2   73.2   43.9    -
6. Supplementary
Fertilizer         157.6  157.6    -       -       -      -       -
Sub-Total          848.0  233.3  106.3  152.8  152.7  123.4   79.5
Physical Co-n-
tingencies          60.0    6.6    9.3   13.3   13.3   10.7    6.8
Sub-Total          908.0  239.9  115.6  166.1  166.0  134.1   86.3
Expected Price
Increases - %         42     17      31     42      53     64     75
- Rs Million      390.9   42.1   36.5   70.9   89.2   86.8   65.4
Sub-Total        1,298.9  282.0  152.1  237.0  255.2  220.9  151.7
7. Operating Cost
during imple-
mentation           69.6   10.41'  8.9   11.0   12.0   13.2   14.1
Expected Price
Increases - %         34     1?      22     29      36     43      50
- Rs Million       23.5    1.2    2.0    3.2    4.3    5.7    7.1
Sub-Total           93.1   11.6   109   14.2   16.3   18.9   21,2
Total Project
Cost   -.1,392.0  293.6  163.0  251.2  271.5  239.8  172.9
1/   This includes vehicle and ecuipment purchases of Rs4.4 million.






ANNEX '3
Table 2
Page 1
INDIA
RA.JASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit
Estimated Cost,/   Proposed Allocation
Category                      Total   Foreign          of Credit
-US$ Million-
I. Civil Works
(a) Infrastructure                    49.7     6.9
Price Contingencies               26.3     4.2
Less equipment with Price
Contingency                       (4.5)   (4.,1)
Sub-Total                             71.5     7.0               30.(
Disbursement woulq be for 42%
of total co8tb/
(b) On-Farm Development               36.6     7.3
Price Contingencies               19.3     4.5
Less equipment with Price
Contingency                       (5.5)   (5.o)
Sub-Total                             5o.4     6.8               21.4
Disbursement would be for 42%
of total costb/
II. Equipment and Vehicles                 8.8      7.9               0i3c/
(a)Directly imported, (100% cif)
(b) Locally manufactured, (100%
ex-factory)
(c)Imported items procured locally,
(70%)
III. Fertilizer                            19.7    18.7               18.7
Disbursement would be 100% of
foreign cost
Sub-Total (carried forward)           150.4   40.4               76.4>
a/ See Annex 6, Table 1 for cost estimates, and Annex 7, Page 1 for equip-
ment component.
b/ Percentage shown would be applied to civil works net of equipment use
for force account works and hire to contractors. The percentage would be
reviewed periodically during project implementation.
c/ Excludes items for reserved procurement.



ANNEX 8
Table 2
Page ?
Estimated Costa'  Proposed Allocation
Category                      Total   Foreign           of Credit
-------     U    Million--------------
Sub-Total (brought forward)           i5o.4     o4 74o4
IV. Unallocated
Civil Works - Physical Contingency    7.5       1.3
Equipmenb Price Contingency             1 .4    1.3
Fertilizer Price Contingency            3.3     3.1
Sub-Total                             12.2      5.7
Sub-Total (I - IV)                   102.    4h6.1                83.0
Project Operating Cost_/                  11.4     1.0
Total                            174hO    47.1                83.C
a   See Annex 6, Table 1 for cost estimates, and Annex 7, Page 1 for equip-
ment component.
b/ Equal to foreign cost plus 10% of local costs.
_/ No disbursement against this item.



ANNEX 8
Table 3
INDIA
RAJASrHAN CANAL COMW{ND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year           Accumulated Disbursements
and Semester              US$ Million Equivalent
1975
lst
2nd                         3.0
1976
1st                        23.0
2nd                        32.0
1977
lst                        37.0
2nd                        42.0
1978
1st                        48.0
2nd                        56.o
1979
1st                        62.0
2nd                        69.0
1980
1st                        74.0
2nd                        79.0
1981
1st                        82.0
2nd                        83.0
Proposed Closing Date: June 30, 1981






ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDIA
RAJASTHIAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization, Management and Project Financing
Project Management and Coordination
1.        The proposed project is one of many similar proposed command area
development projects throughout India scheduled for implementation in the
next few years. Therefore, there has been concern both at the Central and
State level to devise organizational arrangements which could readily be
duplicated elsewhere. Such projects would typically rehabilitate, complete
and modernize the irrigation, drainage and road networks in a command area,
carry out land development works on the farmers' fields to enable better
irrigation practices, and would improve agricultural support services. To
carry out such a program in a coordinated and efficient manner, would require
a unified project organization. As a minimum, the project organization
should direct and control all activities of the Irrigation, Agriculture,
Revenue, and Colonisation and Cooperatives Departments and to coordinate
programs of the other departments dealing with rural development in the
command areas concerned.
2.        In view of the above considerations, the Government of Rajasthan
(GOR) has established at the State level, a Command Area Development and
Water Utilization (CAD & WU) Department headed by a Secretary reporting to
the Minister of Agriculture, and a Command Area Authority in the project
area, headed by an Area Development Commissioner (Charts 8599 and 8640).
A State-level Coordination Committee for Command Area Development and Water
Utilization is being set up, chaired by the Chief Minister of Rajasthan and
comprising the Ministers, Secretaries and Directors of all departments con-
cerned (Table 1). A small coordinating committee would be set up by the
Chief Secretary to assist the Secretary Command Area Development and Water
Utilization in his day to day activities. During the next five years, the
CAD & WU Department would be dealing primarily with the implementation of the
Rajasthan Canal CAD Project, the Chambal CAD Project and the Gang-Bhakra CAD
Project (not proposed for IDA financing).
Command Area Autliority (CAA)
3.        The CAA'was set up in March 1974 and is governed by a Board,
chiaired by the Area Development Commissioner, and comprising the secre-
taries of the departments concerned and representatives of credit insti-
tutions (Table 2). An Area Development Commissioner will be appointed in
consultation witlh GOI. A Command Area Consultative Committee would be
established to advise the Commissioner. It would comprise representatives of
the District Administrations and the Directors of development departments
not directly controlled by the Area Development Commissioner.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
4.        The Area Development Commissioner would be responsible for the
planning and implementation of all irrigation and on-farm development works,
for all agricultural supporting services, and for the organization and man-
agement of cooperatives in the project area. As Revenue Coinnissioner and
Member of the Board of Revenue, he would also be responsible for all Col-
lectors and revenue officers in the command area. Through the Command Area
Consultative Committee he would also coordinate all other development activi-
ties (such as roads, afforestation and village water supply) in the project
area. Separate Circles would be set up in each of the Departments of Public
Works (PWD), Forestry and Water Supply to design and construct their respec-
tive works in the project area.
5.        The CAA would be organized into four departments (Chart 8640):
(a) The Agriculture Department, headed by a Joint Director of
Agriculture. The Department would be responsible for
research, extension and other agricultural activities.
The organization of the extension service is described
in detail in Reference 3;
(b) The Colonization and Cooperatives Department, headed by
a Joint Registrar of Cooperatives. The department would
be responsible for all colonization activities and the
organization and initial management of village credit
cooperative and marketing societies;
(c) The Revenue Department, hieaded jointly by the Collectors.
The department would be responsible for taking legal
action to make land development compulsory, for land
registration and correction of land records, for the
preparation of loan applications and for the recovery of
special loans and for the pre-extension service (para 9);
and
(d)  The Irrigation and Land Development Department, headed by a
Clhief Engineer. Although part of the CAA, the department's
technical supervision would be through the Rajasthan Canal
Board, a semi-autonomous organization reporting to the
Minister of Irrigation and responsible for the design and
construction of the RCP.
The Irrigation and Land Development Department (Chart 8639) would
have two operational units:  (a) the Land Development Unit, under an
Assistant Chief Engitneer, would be responsible for all on-farm development
works (leveling, watercourse lining and field channel construction). It
would be organized in four Land Development Circles, each composed of four
Land Development Divisions; and (b) the Operations and Maintenance Unit
under the Chief Engineer, would have two Operation and Maintenance Circles,
with three Operation and Maintenance Divisions each, and one Mechanical
Division. The Operation and Maintenance Circles would be responsible for
the operation and maintenance of the entire canal system and for the supply



ANNEX 9
Page 3
of water to the individual chak outlets. They would coordinate all water
release schedules with the extension service.
Financing of Proiect Works (see also Annex 10)
7.        Irrigation, roads and afforestation works would be financed by
annual allocations from the GOR budget. A new head of expenditure, "Com-
mand Area Development", has been created within the Agricultural Sector of
the GOI and GOR development programs. A new budget head for "Command Area
Development" has also been created in the GOR budget to cover:
(a) Non-Plan (i.e. recurrent) outlays for the existing Agricul-
ture, Irrigation and Cooperatives Departments in the project
area; and
(b) New Plan (i.e. capital) allocations for these departments.
Budgetary earmarkings for the command areas would also be made for all
the other development departments concerned, namely, Roads, Forestry,
Animal Husbandry, Sheep and Wool, Dairy, Education, Medical and Public
Health, Water Supply, Town Planning and Power. For the Rajasthan Canal
Command Area, only the Roads, Forestry, and Water Supply components would
be significant enough for separate inclusion in the proposed project.
8.        As implementation of a systematic on-farm development program
must include whole chaks (Annex 3), development would be compulsory and
the cost of works would be recovered from the beneficiaries or from the
land benefitted. Legal powers-to carry out such compulsory on-farm develop-
ment and to recover the costs of development would be available under the:
(a) Rajasthan Colonization Act, as amended;
(b) Rajasthan Irrigation and Drainage Act, as amended; antd
(c) Rajasthan Land Development Corporation (RLDC) Act.
Amendments of the Rajasthan Colonization and Irrigation and Drainage Acts
have been sanctioned. Thie RLDC Act has already been drafted. After discus-
sions with the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC), the commercial
banks and the Banking Department of the Government of India, the draft Act
has been revised and will be submitted to the State Cabinet for approval by
July 1, 1974.
9.        The success of a chak-wide on-farm development program is, however,
not only dependent on the available legal instruments but also on the will-
inigness of the great majority of the farmers to participate in the program.  A
special effort would tlherefore be made by the CAM to convince farmers that
the proposed works would be to their benefit. The Revenue Department would
lead a pre-extension effort in the chaks scheduled for on-farm development.
The pre-extension teams would be reinforced, as required, by agricultural
extension specialists and with land development engineers who would explain



ANNEX 9
Page 4
the proposed program and demonstrate the effect of the development to the
villagers. Slides, short films and inspection tours to existing developments
in the Droject area would be organized. The pre-extension effort would be
implemented in two phases: the first phase before the initial survey work
is carried out: and the second phase at the time when the chak files are
ready to be discussed by the Revenue Department personnel with the village
authorities and the farmers.
10.       Most of the on-farm development works implemented irn the last
few years were financed directly from GOR's development budget, with cost
recovery scheduled through betterment levies on the developed land. Collec-
tion of the levies however was not effective as local pressures, in many
instances, forced Government :o suspend collections or cancel them completely.
11.       The proposed financing plan for on-farm development works under
the project is aimed at keeping GOR's budgetary liabilities to a minimum.
Financing would be provided to farmers from two sources: commercial and
land development bank loans and "special loans", from GOI. Long-term loans
from commercial and land development banks secured by mortgages on
the land scheduled for development, would provide the major source of finance
for on-farm development. Eighty percent of such loan amounts would be
refinanced by ARC. Commercial and land development banks would establish
their usual direct relationship with their borrowers and use their own loan
recovery mechanisms. An effort would be made to ensure that as many farmers
as possible were eligible for commercial bank loans, through a campaign to
update land records and to recover past debt arrears. This would be desira-
ble, as alternative sources of finance, such as special loans (Annex 12),
would be subject to some degree of political pressure. Low recoveries would
place an unacceptable burden on the GOR budget (para 14).
12.       Farmers ineligible for commercial loans because of defective land
titles or because of overdues on debts to local authorities, cooperatives
or commercial financing institutions, would be provided with unsecured
'special loans' from the Rajasthan Land Development Corporation (RLDC) to
he set up for the project (Annex 10). An estimated 20% of the on-farm dev-
elosment works would be financed in this way.  Funds would be provided by
.1I to TlOC at 7% interest for a period of fifteen years and on-lent at an
Kste >est  ante ahove that for commercial loans.  Farmers who would be eligible
rn*ercTl loans but who, for any reason, refuse to apply for such loans,
woulh be provided with special loans at a higher rate of interest. All
sDecial loans would be recovered through a surcharge on the existing land
tax.
13.       Farm Budget calculations (Annex 15) indicate that, even under
rather conservative assumptions, an investment of Rs 15,000 per ha for
on-farm development works cou1ld be repaid by most of the farmers.  However,
topographical conditions vary within a chak and, in some cases, although
the total on-farm development costs of a chak may average less than this
sum, the development cost of individual holdings might in some cases be
considerablv more. In such cases the repayment capacity of the affected



ANNEX 9
Page 5
farmers would be investigated ,)y the CAA and either the loan limit raised,
or if the farmers were unable Lo carry a loan in excess of Rs 15,000, a
GOI disadvantaged farmer subsidy would be provided. An estimated 5% of
tne farm holdings in the high dune area would receive these subsidies.
Farmers receiving loans for land development would qualify for grace periods
depending on the financial viability of their farms during the initial years
of development. It is presently estimated that 25% of the 34,000 farmers
would require up to 2-year grace periods.
14.       RLDC would act as an agent for the participating commercial and
land development banks for the preparation and initial processing of loan
applications, for the channeling of GOI subsidies and for providing special
loans to ineligible farmers. As a Government corporation, its liabilities,
as a result of slow loan recoveries, will effect the GOR Budget. To reduce
these liabilities to a minimum, all farmers eligible for commercial credit will
be directed to participating banks. Although legal powers would be available
(para 8) to enforce compulsory land development, it would not be possible to
force farmers to apply for commercial loans. Land development works for
farmers who refuse commercial credit would be financed from RLDC special loan
funds. To reduce the number of such cases, these loans would carry harsher
repayment conditions (para 12). The RLDC Act would provide the necessary
legal powers for such compulsory funding.
15.       RLDC would channel all commercial credit, special loans and sub-
sidies to the CM which would carry out the on-farm works (Annex 3). To
ensure an uninterrupted work program, RLDC would advance construction funds
to the CAA pending the scrutiny and sanction of loan applications by its
own staff and the commercial banks. Interest charges for these funds would
be financed from RLDC's own resources (Annex 10).
16.       To date, the commercial and land development banks active in the
project area have had varying standards of eligibility for granting long-term
loans and have required different types of documentation for their loan
applications. Under the proposed new procedures, RLDC and the participating
banks would draw up a standardized application form, which would be used for
the preparation of all commercial and special loan applications. All
applications would be prepared by the Revenue Department of the CAA under
the general supervision of the RLDC branch office. The use of Revenue staff
for this work would be advantageous as they keep the land records necessary
for executing mortgages, they are the designated agencies, under the Rajasthan
Colonization Act, for issuing the compulsory land development notices to
farmers and they have an extensive field organization in place. Commercial
and land development banks would second representatives to the CAM to ensure
that standards for loan applications were being adhered to.
17.       Loan applications would be based on the chak and farmers' files
(Reference 1). RLDC would receive these files from the Land Development
Circle of the CAA. The loan amount would be based on the estimated cost
for land leveling works on the farmer's original holding and a proportional
share of the construction cost of the watercourses, drains and roads. The
completed loan applications would be returned from the field and processed



ANNEX 9
Page 6
by the RLDC branch office.  Eligible farmers wno have signed loan applica-
tions would be referred for financing to the lead commercial bank for that
part of the project area or to a land development bank. The bank would
revies tne application and, within a stipulated time, inform RLDC whether
the loan would be sanctioned. A,)plications of eligible farmers who have
been refused by a bank would be reviewed by an appeal commission, composed
of a representative of the bank, the Regional Director of RLDC in the project
area and an independent chairman. Eligible farmers who lhave refused to sign
a loan application, ineligible farmers and farmers whose loan applications
Llave been refused by the banks and such refusal upheld by the appeal com-
mission, would be financed by special loans through RLDC.
18.       GOR and ARC have aprointed a committee to draw up a banking plan,
divicing the project area into zones of operation for the one lead bank,
and four commercial banks and land development banks participating in the
SCIerLe.  Ihe lead bank would be responsible for coordinating all banking
activities in its district.  The other banks would be assignec smaller operating
areas. Few bank branches exist in the project area at present though reasonf
able facilities exist in adjacent towns. The need for additional branches
would be investigated under the banking plan. Staff training would be
required. TAe financial position of the participating banks is satisfactory
and, with ARC refinancing 80% of the loan amounts, no shortage of funds is
anticipated.



ANHEX 9
Table 1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL C(OMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coordination Committee for Command Area
Development and Water Utilisation
Chief Minister                                       Chairman
Minister for Irrigation
Mfinister for Agriculture
Minister for Planning
Minister for Finance
Minister for Cooperation
Minister for Revenue
Chief Secretary
Agriculture Production Secretary
Special Secretary, Planning
Commissioner, Irrigation and Power
Financial Commissioner
Revenue Commissioner
Chairman, Rajasthan Canal Board
Chief Engineer, Irrigation
Area Development Commissioner (Rajasthan Canal)
Area Development Commissioner (Chambal)
Area Development Commissioner (Gang-Bhakra)
Secretary, Command Area Development and
Water Ultilization Department                        Member Secretary
Representatives of the MSinistry of Agriculture
and the Planning Commission equal or above the
rank of Joint Secretary will also be members



ANNEX 9
Table 2
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Command Area Board
Area Development Commissioner                  Chairman and Administrator
Secretary, Rajasthan Canal and Chairman,
Rajasthan Canal Board of his Representa-
tive                                                      Member
Secretary, CAD & WU                                       Member
Financial Commissioner or his Representative              Member
Revenue & Forest Commissioner or his Representative    Member
Special Secretary Planning                                Member
Colonization Commissioner                                 Member
A Representative of Credit Institutions                   Member
Two Nominees from Pramukhs and other Elected
Representatives                                           Members
Two Representatives from the Farmers, one of which
will be from Weaker Sections                              Members
Deputy Area Development Commissioner                      Member-Secretary



ANNEX 1 0
Page 1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMDENT PROJECT
Rajasthan Laid Development Corporation
General
1.        The proposed Rajasthan Land Development Corporation (RLDC) would
be a statutory corporation of the State of Rajasthan created for the
purpose of:
(a)  undertaking programs of on-farm development works
in Rajasthan;
(b)  operating as an agexrcy for financing these programs;
and
(c)  recovering the amounts spent on developmental programs
from the owners of the land.
2.        The proposed Corporation would finance land development projects
in which participation by all the concerned landholders is made compulsory
by law and for which repayment is obligatory. The RLDC Act stipulates,
in this connection, that it shall be obligatory for all holders of land
coming within the purview of an RLDC compulsory land development scheme
to apply for ordinary bank loans, if they have the legal capacity to do
so, or otherwise accept "special loans" from the Corporation.  The farmers
would also have the options of doing the work themselves or paying cash
for it.
3.        The Revenue Department would have special powers to facilitate
the recovery of special loans on behalf of RLDC including:
(a)  the power to take over the management of the lands of
defaulting cultivators until all sums due are
realized;
(b)  In the case of lands irrigated by a Government-owned
irrigation source, the power to stop the supply of
irrigation water to such land; and
(c)  the power to hypothecate (pledge as security) the
produce of the land of defaulting cultivators.-



ANNEX  10
Page 2
4.        The share capital of RLDC would be made up of equal contributions
from GOI and GOR.  Funds for special loans would be lent by GOI to RLDC
through GOR. RLDC would also be able to borrow short-term funds from
sanks. RLDC would supervise the preparation of loan applications, assign
.L; many of them as possible to commercial and land development banks, and
rinance the others itself as special loans (Annex 7). It would also channel
to the CAM, in pace with construction, the proceeds of these loans as well.
as of its own loans. It would be responsible for the collection of the
special loans.
Organization and Management
5.        The RLDC headquarters in Jaipur would be organized as follows:
CHAIRMAN
(Secretary, CAD & WU ex-officio)
Managing Director
Chief Loans         Chief Technical               Chief          Legal Officer
Officer               Officer                Accountant
Lending &            Project.                   Loan             Agreements
Borrowing             AppraisaL                 Accounts
The Board of Directors of RLDC would be appointed by the shareholders (GOI
and GOR) and would consist of the following:
(a) Chairman, Secretary CAD & WU (Ex-officio);
(b) Representative of the Managing Director, ARC;
(c) Financial Commissioner, COR;
(d) Representative of the Joint Secretary (CAD), GOI;
(e) Other representatives of the OI from the Planning
Commission and the Ministry of Finance;
(f) Area Development Commissioner (Rajasthan Canal);
(g) Area Development Commissioner (Chambal); and
(h) Managing Director, RLDC.



ANNEX t0
Page 3 
The Headquarters staff would consist of:
(a)  Managing Director;                       )
(b)  Chief Loans Officer;                      )
(c)  Assistant Loan Officer - Loans;           )  Loans
(d)  Assistant Loan Officer - Borrowing;       )  Division
(e)  Assistants;                               )
(f)  Chief Accountant;                         )
(g)  Three Accountants;                        )  Accounts
(h)  Junior Accountants;                       )  Division
(i)  Legal Officer;                            )  Legal
(j)  Legal Assistant;                          )  Division
(k)  Clhief Technical Officer; and             )  Appraisal
(1)  Project Officers (as required).           )  Division
The Project Appraisal Division would consist of one or two technical
experts. If necessary, RLDC would borrow its experts from the CAD & WU
Department of the GOR.
6.        RLDC would set up a small branch office in the Chambal project
area to coordinate its field activities. This office would consist of
a Loan Officer, an Accountant and a number of supporting personnel. In
addition many officers of the CAM would also have power to act as agents
of RLDC in preparing and sanctioning loan applications.
Financing of On-Farm Development
7.        On-farm development works would be implemented by the CAA and
financed by the farmers, through long-term bank or special loans.
Bank loans would be for at least ten years with an appropriate grace period
on the repayment of principal. Heavier repayment conditions would apply
to special loans (Annex 9). Disadvantaged farmers (small and marginal
farmers, and farmers with excessive land shaping or reclamation costs)
would receive a GOI subsidy of up to 33% of the cost of on-farm development.
All subsidies and loans would be channeled to the CAA through RLDC.
8.        Table 1 gives a breakdown of on-farm development costs in
constant prices over the six-year development period and the sources of
funds for this project and the Chambal Command Area Development Project.
Engineering costs, which are included in the land development costs to be
financed by the farmers, would be covered initially from budgetary alloca-
tions by GOR. RLDC would withold an equivalent amount from the loan amounts
made available to it, to meet its own operating costs.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
9.        The following diagram-shows the flow of funds:
Government of Rajasthan   -I        y      Government of Indial
I                           I , 
|  C M                                 A l 
Implementation
Agencies       -(x + y + s) -e      RLDC      --x--  Participating  -0.8 x-
Banks
Repayment
Development
x = commercial loans, including cost of engineering.
y = GOI special loans, including cost of engineering.
s = GOI subsidies, a percentage of land development costs including
engineering.
e - engineering cost (15% of cost of works).
2perating Accounts and Sources and Applications of Funds
lu.       RLDC would have a share capital of Rs 100 million, to be provided
equally by GOI and GOR1/. The share capital would be used to provide advance
payments to the CAA between the receipt of farmers' loan applications and
the sanction of loans by the banks, for equipment purchases in the first
and third years of the project, and to cover bad debts in its outstanding
special loarns which would be repayable to GOI. The advance payments for
Lrocurernent of equipment would be amortized over five years and amortization
payments would be deducted from construction payments to the CAA.  At the
end of the construction period, the machines would remain the property of
RLDC 2-:counts would be credited with their salvage value.  Projected
KLDC operating accounts for both this project and the Rajasthan Canal Command
Area Development Project, in constant prices, are shiown in Table 2, while
projected sources and application of funds are shown in Table 3.  A cumulative
operating suirplus of about Rs 55 million would be generated over the six-year
period, whiichl would either be refunded to the GOI and GOR or used for further
projects.
1/   Initially GOI and GOR proposed an authorized share capital of at least
Rs 40 million. Subsequently, they advised IDA that they intend to
in-crease the authorized share capital to Rs 100 million. Moreover, as
this is subject to Legislative approval, the lower figure of Rs 40 million
was used in this report for the purpose of evaluating RLDC's financial
positioni.



Ai4kla 10
Table 1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
On-Farm Development Financing Scheme
(Rs Million)
-------------Project Year -------------
Item                1       2      3      4       5      6     Total
Construction Cost of
On-Farm Development
Rajasthan Canal
Project              47.8  63.8   79.7   79.7   47.8    0.0   31h'-
Chambal Project         5.7   11.8   16.0  19.0   20.4   22.t'   95.5
Sub-Total          53.5   75.6   95.7   98.7   68.2   22.6   414.3
Less:
GOI disadvantaged
farmer subsidy        2.3    3.6    4.6    4.8    4.0    1.2    20.5
Total Credit       51.2  72.0   91.1   93.9   64.2   21.4   393.8
Financing (net
ofsubs3idy)
GOI Special Loans
20% of Rajasthan
Canal credit volume  9.6   12.8   15.9   15.9    9.6    0.0    63.8
30% of Chambal credit
volume                1.7    3.5    4.8    5.7    6.1    6.8    28.oz
Total               11.3   16.3   20.7   21.6   15.7    o.8    92.!4
e 0CK_  =_C   ==N
a/  First implementation year to begin October, 1974.
b/ Includ,3s engineering costs, but excludes price contingencies.



ANNEX 10
Table 2
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ralasthan Land Development Corporation - Operating Accounts
(Rs I(i1lioa)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6           Total
Revenues
1. Recovery from loans and grants of
engineering costs payable to COR                   8.0     11.3      14.4      14.8      10.2       3.4         62.1
2. Interest margin of 3.0% on GOI loans                   -        0.3       0.8       1.4      2.1       2.6          7.2
3. Amortization payments by CAA for equipment
loaned from RLDC at a rate of use of
2,000 hours/year out of a useful life
of 8,000 hours                                      -       2.0       8.0      10.0      12.0       3.0         35.0
4. Salvage value payment for RLDC equipment
sold to GOR                                         -        -         -         -         -        8.9          8.9
Total                                        8.0      13.6      23.2      26.2     24.3      17.9        113.2
Expenditures
5. Preparation of loan applications1/                    0.5       0.7       1.0       1.0      0.7       0.2          4.1
6. RLDC establishment costz/                             0.5       0.7       1.0       1.0      0.7       0.2          4.1
7. Interim financing of project works3/                  0.6       0.5       0.5      0.5       0.4       0.3          2.8
8. Purchase of machinery for CAA - letter
credit4/                                           9.9        -      10.0        -         -         -          19.9
9. Purchase of machinery for CAA - payment5/              -       10.0        -      14.0        -         -          24.0
10. Recovery of special loans, administrative
costs6/                                            0.3       0.4      0.5       0.5       0.4       0.2          2.3
11. Contingencies7/                                       0.1       0.2       0.3       0.3      0.2       0.1          1.2
Total                                       11.9      12.5      13.3      17.3       2.4      1.0         58.4
Surplus                                                   -        1.1       9.9       8.9     21.9      16.9         58.7
Deficit                                                  3.9        -         -         -         -        -           3.9
Cumulative                                              -3.9      -2.8       7.1     16.0      37.9      54.8         54.8
Share Capital                                           20.0      10.0      10.0        -        -         -          40.0
1/ One percent of total loan volume channeled through RLDC.
2/ One percent of loan volume channeled through RLDC.
3/ Interim financing advanced to CAA for an average of 3 months at 12% interest, between the receipt of loan
applications and the sanctioning of the loans by the commercial banks.
4/ Opening of letter of credit.
5/ Delivery and payment for equipment.
6/ Cost of recovery of special loans estimated at 2k7% of loan volume.
7/ Contingencies of 107 on Items 5, 6 and 10.



ANNEX 10
Table 3
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rajasthan Land Development Corporation - Sources and Application of Funds
(Chambal and Rajasthan Canal Projects Only)
(Rs Million)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6          Total
Sources of Funds
1. Share Capitall/      2/                             20.0      10.0      10.0       -         -         -         40.0
2. GOI GrantW(subsidy)-                                 2.3       3.6       4.6       4.8      4.0      1.2         20.5
3. GOI Loans-       4/                                 11.3      16.3      20.7      21.6    15.7       6.8         92.4
4. Commercial Loans-                                   39,9      55.7      70.4      72.3    48.5      14.6        301.4
5. Amortir7tion payments for equipment from
CAA-                              6/-                      2.0        8.0      10.0    12.0       3.0         35.0
6. Salvage value of equipment fr9m CAA_                            -         -        -         -        8.9         8.9
7. Interest of 10% on GOI Loans_3                        -        1.1        2.8      4.8      7.0      8.6         24.3
Total                                      73.5      88.7      116.5    113.5    87.2       43.1        522.5
Application of Funds
1. Preparation of loan appli ationsZ/                   0.5       0.7       1.0       1.0      0.7      0.2          4.1
2. RLDC establishment costs7Z                           0.5       0.7        1.0      1.0      0.7      0.2          4.1
3. Interim financing of CAA payme ts8/                  0.6       0.5        0.5      0.5      0.4       0.3          2.8
4. Purchase of machinery for CAA9                       9.9      10.0       14.0     10.0       -         -         43.9
5. Construction payments to CAAtQ/                     45.5      64.3      81.3      83.9    58.0      19.2        352.2
6. Interest payment GOR/GOI - 7%                         -        0.7        1.9      3.3      4.9      6.1         16.9
Total                                      57.0      76.9       99.7     99.7    64.7       26.0        424.0
Surplus                                                16.5      11.8       16.8     13.8    22.5      17.1        985.0
Cumulative                                             16.5      28.3      45.1      58.9    81.4       98.5          -
1/ Share capital provided equally by GOI and GOR.
2/ Subsidies for small and other disadvantaged farmers.
3/ GOI special loans for farmers ineligible for commercial loans or unwilling to apply to commercial banks. The
loan is given at a 7% interest rate to GOR and on loan to farmers at 10% to 13% interest. For this table, 10% was
taken.
4/ Loans at 10% for ten years with 80% of the loan discounted by ARC.
5/ CAA will pay RLDC each year an amortization payment for equipment received from RLDC. In year 2 for 4,000
hours, in year 3 for 1,600 hours, in year 4 for 2,000 hours and year 5 for 2,400 hours, for a total life of 8,800
hours.
6/ At the end of the construction period the equipment would not yet be fully amortized. Salvage value for the
equipment will be credited to RLDC at the end of year 5. The equipment will become the property of GOR after
reducing RLDC's payables accordingly.
7/ One percent of the total loan volume channeled through RLDC for loan applications and one percent for RLDC
establishment costs.
8/ RLDC will advance construction funds to CAA as soon as the loan applications for commercial loans have been
received. Processing by the commercial banks is estimated to take three months. Interim financing not covered by
share capital will be borrowed by RLDC from the commercial banks at 1% interest per month.
9/ The machine purchases will be effected in year 1 and 3. Letter of Credits will be opened in these years.
Machines will be delivered in year 2 and 4 before the construction season.
10/ Construction funds to CAA will be net of engineering costs. Engineering costs have been advanced by GOR
budgetary resources and are payables to GOR at the end of the projects.






ANNEX 11
Page   1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMIAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operation and Mlaintenance
A. Irrigation
Present OrganizatioII
1.        Operation and maintenance (O & M) of the irrigation system is the
responsibility of the Irrigation Department.  The Chief Engineer (North)
heads an 0 & M unit comprising Irrigation Circles for the Gang and Bhakra
projects and for the completed parts of the RCP in the Stage I area. Each
Circle is led by a Superintending Engineer and is divided into three or four
O & M divisions. The divisions have Executive Engineers in charge and carry
O & M responsibilities usually for an entire distributing canal command.
The Chief Engineer in charge of 0 & M and the Chief Engineer (RCP), responsi-
ble for the construction of the system, coordinate their activities, espe-
cially during the period preceding the handing over of a completed section
of the system.
2.        Operation and maintenance costs are financed from GOR budgets and
are fully recovered from water rates collected by the Revenue Department.
Details of current rates are given in Table 1. At present revenue averages
Rs 40/ha.
3.        Present standards of maintenance are satisfactory considering the
difficulties in maintaining an unlined canal system in sandy soils surrounded
by shifting dunes, and an equitable distribution of water to the farmers is
achieved. The network below the branch canals is operated on an "on" or "off"
system with an entire irrigation block of 1,200 to 1,500 ha irrigated simul-
taneously. The result is a rigid irrigation schedule with little attention
to crop water demands. Water supply is interrupted by canal closures for
emergency maintenance needs. Most of the commanded area has water available
only in kharif but the closure of the Pong Dam in 1974 will permit perennial
irrigation. The work load of the O&M staff will then increase considerably.
4.        At the chak level an irrigation department official, the irrigation
patwari, assists the farmers in arranging the rotation from the watercourses.
Tihis arrangement is popular among the farmers as it obviates water disputes.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 2
Operation and Maintenance under the Project
J.        In the Command Area Authority (CAM), a new post of Chief Engineer,
rrigation and Land Development, would be created (Annex 9).  He would be
responsible for two 0 & M Circles operating in the project area. Each of the
Circles would be responsible for a number of canal commands. The Chief
Engineer would maintain the present close coordination with Chief Engineer
(North) who would remain resporsible for the Gang and Bhakra projects and the
Chief Engineer, RCP, who is responsible for construction.
6.        The supply of water from the irrigation system would be coor6L-iaLcc
with the Aariculture Department of the CAA and with irrigation advisory eei-
mittees set up for each irrigation block. The 0 & M Circles would draw up
irri-ation schedules in accordance with farm management plans prepared by
the Agricultural Extension Officers. The schedules would be prepared on a
block-bv-block basis at least three months before the start of each growing
season. Village level workers and the irrigation patwaris would prepare
chak irrigation schedules and assist farmers in implementing them. Results
wotild be reviewed with the block advisory committees and modified if necessaLry.
7.        Prior to the commencement of the irrigation season in May of each,
year, the Chief Engineer would estimate water diversion requirements at the
lhead of the canal system and negotiate them with the Interstate Water Con-
trol Unit. 1/
8.        The costs of operating and maintaining the system down to the c61.a;k
outlet are shown in Table 7 of Annex 6. These amount to Rs 7.2 million per
year in 1974 monetary values or Rs 36 per ha irrigated.
9.        With the full implementation of the proposed cropping pattern and
yield projections from year five onwards, these 0 & M costs would be recov--
ered easily from the farmers at current irrigation rates (Annex 15). Water
rates (Table 1) will be collected by the Revenue Department on chak assess-
ments prepared by the irrigation patwaris.
B. Village Water Supply System
11).      Operation and maintenance of this essentially very simple system
of gravity flow filtration would be the responsibility of the panchayats
under the administrative supervision of the CAA. The Water Supply Departmen.-
w;ould supply chemicals (bleaching powder) free of charge, provide technical
,/  This unit, stationed at Chandigarh, is responsible for supervising
allocation of the Ravi and Beas River waters according to the Inter-
state Water Agreement between the states of Haryana, Punjab and
{ajasthan.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 3
supervision of routine maintenance and carry out major repairs and replace-
ments. The cost of the watchman/operator would be paid by the panchayat
from their own funds.
C. Roads
11.       Road maintenance would continue to be the responsibility of the PWD.
PWD staff and equipment, the latter obtained from the completed construction
program, would be employed on this program, which would be funded by GOR
annual budgetary allocations. Insufficient funds are allocated at present
to road maintenance. The costs of annual maintenance are estimated at
Rs 3,500/km or a total of Rs 0.5 million on completion of the project roads.






ANNEX 11
Table 1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Water Rates (in force in 1973) in RCP
Item                                        Rs/ha
Sugarcane                                     75
Cotton                                        50
Sorghum                                       17
Millet                                        17
Pulses                                        30
Vegetables                                    35
Oil Seeds                                     30
Wheat                                         30
Fodder                                        10
Gram (fully irrigated)                        30
Paddy                                         35
Gardens                                       85 (per year)






ANNEX 12
Page   1
INDIA
RAJASThAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Supporting Services
I. PRESENT STATUS
1.        Several Government departments are currently dealing with agri-
cultural development and assistance to farmers. The main agencies active in
the project area are:
(a) the Extension and Research Services of the Department
of Agriculture;
(b) the Irrigation Department;
(c) the Colonization and Cooperatives Department;
(d) the Revenue Department; and
(e) commercial and land development banks.
lhe responsibilities of the various departments are not well defined.  Be-
cause of a lack of coordination, limited personnel and insufficient funding,
the services provided to farmers are inadequate to meet the requirements of
an intensive agricultural development.
Extension
2.        The Director of the Department of Agriculture of Rajastlian State
is responsible for all extension and research activities in the State. At
the head office there are several subject matter specialists for the various
crops and for related fields such as plant protection and farm machinery.
Agricultural research stations are located throughout the State, and there
are also a number of special schemes for different crops. The Ganganagar
Region is divided into four agricultural districts, two of which are in tne
project area: RCP - Area A and RCP - Area B.
3.        Extension activities in the project area are supervised at present
by a Joint Director of Extension at the Regional level. Responsibility for
extension work in the project area is divided between two District Agricul-
tural Officers, one for each of the areas A and B, who are assisted at present
by 27 Agricultural Extension Officers and 75 Village Level Workers (VLW's),
all of whom are employed by the Department of Agriculture. In addition,
two Agricultural Extension Officers and 35 VLW's employed by the panchayats



ANNEX 12
Page 2~
(village committees) are also operating in the project area. The Agricul-
tural Extension Officers are university graduates but most of them lack
enough practical agricultural background. The VLW's are high school
graduates who have taken a special agricultural course, and many of them
have an adequate agricultural background. The Agricultural Extension Officers
and VLW's spend most of their time in helping to provide farm inputs and in
performing other administrative tasks, and devote only about 25% of their
time to agricultural extension. Extension and research work has helped farmers
in the project area to improve farm practices and raise yields. Nevertheless,
technical help to the farmers has not been entirely effective, as the pro-
fessional personnel lack training and support facilities.
4.        The farmers in the area usually know their job and most of them
get good results, considering the quality of land and quantities of water
available to them. They are responsive to innovation and, with adequate
extension help, they will certainly adopt improved farm practices.
Agricultural Research
Research facilities are presently available at the research farms
of hanumangarh (adjacent to Block B) and to a more limited extent at Barore
in Block A). The main research headquarters, housing the central laboratories
and the soil survey organization, is located at Bikaner. These facilities
were set up by GOR in 1966 under the auspices of the UNDP/FAO Project. 1/
During this project, essential work was carried out on soil surveys, analysis
and mapping, hydrology, land reclamation, water management, agronomy (varie-
tal trials, plant protection, crop fertilizer response), and farm manage-
ment; the efficiency and economy of a wide range of channel lining methods
has also been studied. The international contribution was concluded in 1971
and work was continued by local staff, with emphasis on applied research of
direct value to the farmers.
Fertilizers
Experimental evidence and field experience hlave shown that fer-
tilizers are essential to crop production in the project area. Farmers are
fully aware of this fact although they need Extension guidance on the appli-
cations required per crop. Both types of soil--the light sandy soils and
t!- e leavy ta l soils--are inherently poor in nutrients and lack organic mat-
.er. Without additional nutrients in the initial years, yields are low and
build-up of fertility is very slow. There is a national shortage of fer-
tilizer in India due to the rapid increase in demand over the last five
years, coupled with a slow growth in domestic production and restrictions
on imports, due to India's clhronic balance of payments problem. A recent
bank survey estimates that India's total supply in 1973-74 will be about
1/   UNDP/FAO project No. SF/IND 24, "Soil Survey and Soil and Water
Management Research and Demonstration in the Rajasthan Canal Command
Area" (The Terminal Report, Rome, 1971, available on file).



ANNEX 12
Page 3
60% of demand. World market prices of all the major fertilizers have
doubled in the past year, due to supply shortages and the rising cost of
inputs derived from petroleum. Fertilizers are allocated by the GOI from
a central pool, with irrigatee areas receiving larger allocations. Distri-
bution at the retail level is through cooperatives (para 9), private dealers
and Government shops. Well functioning cooperatives supply their members
well with fertilizer. Other farmers must rely on commercial suppliers. In
general, cultivators in the project area who wish to use optimum rates say
they can get about half of what they want. Except in a very few coopera-
tives, the cultivator must pay more than the price fixed by the Government
to get this fertilizer.
Seeds
7.        There is no large scale seed multiplication system in operation
in Rajasthan, and good quality seeds are generally not available. The seeds
sown by the farmers are largely obtained from private suppliers and are
often of a low percentage germination and genetically mixed. As a result,
seed planting rates are higher than would be recommended for high quality
seed, full stands of plants in the field are hard to get and consequently
yields are low.
Farmers' Organizations
8.        The major farmers' organizations in the project area are the
cooperatives and the village councils (panchayats).
9.        Cooperatives in the project area are multi-purpose in nature.
Thiey accept deposits and offer short and medium-term credit, supply inputs,
hire machinery, operate godowns (warehouses) and offer some marketing serv-
ices. For financial purposes, cooperatives are organized in a hierarchical
structure. At the state level, there is a State Cooperative Bank, in each
district a Central Cooperative Bank and for many of the panchayats (local
Government units) there are Primary Credit Societies.
10.       The multi purpose co-ops in the project area are at an early
stage of development and their impact on the provision of credit, storage
and marketing facilities for their members has been minor.
11.       Panchayats are units of local government, each consisting of one or
more villages, with a total population of about 1,500. Wlile panchayat
councils are democratically elected, they tend to be dominated by the older,
wealthier landowners and are frequently neither not oriented to development
nor to the needs of the rural poor. The village level workers are administra-
tively responsiblc to the panchayats and thus tend to be politically influ-
enced in distributing inputs and in their other functions.  However, the
panchayat leaders do command respect and could be used as change agents under
the project, if properly motivated.



ANNEX 12
Page 4
Agricultural Credit
12.       The system of agricultural credit in Rajasthan and in the project
area is described in detail in Reference 4, which also contains financial
statements for the various institutions. Only a brief summary is given
here. A major share of agricultural credit in India is provided by private
money lenders, who charge exorbitant interest rates and often keep the farmer
permanently in debt.  Institutional credit is provided by the cooperative
system, the Land Development Banks and increasingly by the major commercial
banks, which were nationalized in 1969 so that they would provide better
service to rural areas.
13.       Cooperative Banks extend slhort and medium-term (up to five years)
loans. While some funds are provided through share capital and deposits,
the major source of loan funds is the Reserve Bank of India. Outstanding
loans held by the Primary Credit Societies in Ganganagar District in 1972
totalled Rs 13.8 million. About 60% of these amounts represent overdues and
a collection program has been initiated.
14.       Loans to farmers are given partly in cash and partly in the
form of inputs, with ceilings on the various components (Reference 4).
Loans are also limited by the borrowing ceilings of the Primary Credit
Societies and the availability of funds from the Central Cooperative Banks.
Societies which are heavily overdue are not eligible for new loans. Farm-
ers pay 10% interest per annum to the Societies which are re-financed at 8%.
Thie State Cooperative Bank lends to the district banks at just over 6% and
bortows from the Reserve Bank of India at 5 to 6%.
15.       The Central Land Development Bank of Rajasthan supports three
Primary Land Development Banks in the project area. These banks make long-
term loans for land improvement, buildings, machinery and so on. Loans to
farmers are from five to 15 years maturity and are secured by mortgages.  GOI
subsidies are available to small and marginal farmers taking such loans,
similar to the provisions of the project for financing on-farm works (Annex 9).
Interest is 9 to 9.5% and the Primary Banks in turn borrow at 7.5 to 7.75%.
The Central Land Development Bank issues debentures carrying interest at 5.75
o 6.5X. wlich are held mainly by the Reserve Bank, the State Government and
AKC,  In i972 outstanding Land Development loans in the Rajasthan Canal area
vc< at Its 7.3 million with overdues of Rs 1.3 million.
1z.      L'Aihe operations of the commercial banks have been rationalized by
the designation of a "lead bank" in every district. The lead bank in
Ganganagar District is the SLate Bank of Bikaner and Jaipur. The lead bank
acts as a consortium leader and, after identifying growth centers and credit
gaps, is obliged to involve other banks in credit development. Interest
subsidies from GOI are available to certain categories of low-income borrow-
ers.  The commercial banks have established jointly the Agricultural Finance
Corporation to identify projects, train personnel, consult and perform other
such tasks.  The Corporation does not normally lend directly but has been
active in the Gang/Bliakra area In evaluating the pilot projects in on-farm
development and arranging credit finance.



ANNEX 12
Page 5
17.       Branches of commercial banks in and adjacent to the project area
number 37. These branches had total deposits of Rs 104 million in 1972 and
advances of Rs 36 million, of which only Rs 3 million was for agricultural
purposes. Mlost agricultural lending is medium and long-term with security
and interest rates varying from 8.5% to 11%. Loan collection in the rural
sector has not been satisfactory in the past.
II. IMPROVEMENTS NEEDED FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Extension (see Reference 3 for further details)
18.       To achieve the production targets of the project, a massive exten-
sion effort will have to be made.  The Project Extension Service would be
responsible for extension work in the project area, and would be responsible
for the training of farmers. It would be in constant contact with the bodies
conducting research in the area.
19.       The Project Extension Service would comprise a headquarters with
Project Extension Director, subject matters specialists, and a training and
publications unit. The project area would be divided into three Extension
Districts and will comprise in total, 3 District Extension Officers, 18 Agri-
cultural Extension Officers, 12 Subject Matter Specialists, and 144 full-time
Village Level Workers. In each chak of 20 to 30 farms a "progressive farmer"
would be selected for part-time paid service.
20.       In order to coordinate project extension activities with the over-
all development efforts in the area, a Project Extension Council would be
set up under the chairmanship of the Director of Extension. Regular visits
to farmers and group instruction would be organized as described in Refer-
ence 3, which also describes in-service training and the functional responsi-
bilities of extension staff. Provision has been made in the project for the
necessary vehicles, housing and equipment for the extension service (Annex 7,
Table 5) and for operating costs during project implementation (Annex 6,
Table 7). Full details of the proposed improvements in agricultural extension,
including staffing, methods, training courses and evaluation, are given in
Reference 3.
ASricultural Research
21.       While there is presently enough research information available for
initiating the project, there is need to strengthen the link between research
and extension personnel and to expand research for direct application to the
farmers. On-going work at the Bikaner, Hanumangarh, and Barore centers would
continue under the project and would be increasingly oriented to the practical
problems faced by the farmers during land development, especially the need
for reclamation, and improvement of soil fertility. Varietal trials would
also continue. Detailed programs are under preparation which would be subject
to review and confirmation as the project development proceeds. The new pro-
grams include:



ANNEX 12
Page 6
(a)  Farm management;
(b) Detailed soil survey and analysis;
(c) Varietal and new crop testing for fertilizer response,
disease, and pest resistance, especially for new crops;
(d) Determination of soil/water/plant relationships with the
objective of maximizing crop yields with the irrigation
supplies available;
(e) Insect, disease and weed control; and
(f) Collection and maintenance of related statistical data.
The two research farms would also be responsible for continuing hydrometeorol-
ogical data collection and analysis and, at Barore Farm, .the monitoring of
groundwater level and quality throughout the project area.
22.       Additional staff and improved facilities are required at all three
centers. Consultant services (from Technical Institutes and from Agricul-
tural Universities) are required for guiding specific research programs (such
as the development of sodic soil reclamation procedures). The project would
provide additional buildings (including dormitories for visits of extension
workers and progressive farmers) at the two research farms. Improved year-
round road access to Barore Farm is a priority requirement and would be in-
cluded in the projected road development program. Additional laboratory and
field equipment would be provided on the small scale required. Additional
field vehicles to assist co-ordination of on-farm and research center work
would be included.
23.       The research program would be headed by the Project Research
Director (under the general direction of the Joint Director of Agricul-
ture, see Organization Chart 8640) who would be a scientist of recognized
ability and experience with the necessary administrative competence. He
would be stationed at Bikaner. The other research staff would comprise:
Bikaner: 3 senior and 3 junior specialists.
Hanumangarh and Barora farms: 8 senior and 8 junior specialists.
Supporting Staff: 150 research and field technicians, clerks,
drivers, attendants, etc.
24.       It is estimated that this staff requirement will amount to an
additional 50% of the present establishment at the thtee centers. The
additional funds are included in the project cost estimates.



ANNEX 12
Page 7
Seeds
25.       At full project development, the annual requirements for new seed,
in the major crops, would be as follows: wheat - 7,000 ton; and cotton 920
ton. The production of foundation seed for new varieties of the major crops
is not expected to be a problem. However, there is a need for a system to
increase the availability of seeds to the farmer. There is also a need for
seed improvement in many of the minor crops, such as pulses, legumes and
coriander, which get very little attention at present. Potato and vegetable
growers need a source of disease-free seed.
26.       An improved seed production processing and distribution system
would be needed to meet in an optimum manner the requirements of the project
area at full development. Additional seed farms would increase the volume
of seed available and reduce distribution problems. There is therefore a
need for a seed multiplication project to benefit the area but the Rajasthan
Canal project area alone would not be large enough to support a full-scale
project. GOR has recognized this need and has proposed a Rajasthan state-
wide seeds project for future IDA consideration. Discussion between GOR and
IDA are continuing on the possible form and scope of such project. A seeds
project would enhance the economic rate of return of the project but these
improvements have not been assumed in the present calculation of project
yields and benefits.
Farmers' Organizations
27.       In order to maintain and eventually operate irrigation facilities
inside the chak, irrigation associations would be formed. Initially, the
emplhasis would be put on the formation of an Irrigation Agricultural Advisory
Committee in each irrigation block (1,200 ha). Farmers in the chaks would
be organized by the VLW and the progressive farmer for the dissemination of
extension information. These systematic meetings gradually will facilitate
the formation of irrigation associations. The Colonization and Cooperatives
Department of the CAA would guide and assist farmers' organizations in their
early years. The department would also foster the formation of multi-purpose
village cooperatives wherever a need for this type of organization was felt.
Agricultural Credit
28.       Arrangements for financing on-farm development works through credit
are described in Annexes 9 and 10. Production and other credit needs would
be met through the existing institutional and private sources but coopera-
tives and the commercial banks would play a greater role.
29.       With the gradual strengthening of the cooperative system envisaged
under the project,it would be in a position to supply about 20% of the short
and medium-term credit needs of tihe project area fanners. However, statutory
ceilings on cooperative borrowing may prevent further expansion. The role
of Land Development Banks would not increase as result of the project, but
they would continue to supply longer-term funds for capital improvements.



ANNEX 12
Page 8
30.       A major expansion of the role of the commercial banks in short-
term production credit is envisaged. About 80% of the farmers would be
receiving long-term land developvient loans from the banks which would be
secured by mortgages over their whole property. Such farmers would have
some unutilized creditworthiness, which would be shown on an "agricard"
which could be honored by the issuing banks for production credit. However,
the farmer would not be obliged to use this credit source. The staff of the
commercial banks would require additional training for this expansion in
activity, and such training would be available from the Agricultural Finance
Corporation (para 16).
31.       Total production credit requirements at full project development
have been estimated at Rs 120 million per year, based on an assumption that
75h of inputs would be purchased on credit.
Fertilizers
32.       Assuming no shortages of supply and a dynamic extension service,
fertilizer use in the project area would increase considerably over the
development period of the Project. The greatest increase would be in nitro-
genous fertilizers, such as urea, which is used on the major crops, wheat
and cotton. A more modest increase would be for diammonium phosphate which
is ideal for supplying the phosphate needs of rice, wheat, sugarcane, jowar,
maize and a few other non-legumes, without including too much higher-cost
nitrogen. Diammonium phosphate is also an ideal formulation for the
leguminous crops, which need only a small amount of nitrogen but generous
amounts of phosphate. Potash is recommended in the project area only for
sugarcane and vegetables. Research in the future could pin-point the soil
and crop combinations requiring potash and the economic returns to its use
but tihis is not urgently needed. Present recommended levels of fertilizer
application are given in Table 1.
33.       Under present scarcity conditions, the excessive price the farmer
usually must pay and the slowness in delivery increases his production costs,
reduces the amnount used, and interferes with the timeliness of application,
thus reducing returns from fertilizer use. If the prices of farm crops
ixicrease in proportion to recent world-wide fertilizer cost increases and
Ole eistribution system is improved under the project, cultivators in the
:tent area are expected to use recommended rates, at least on their high-
Lding varieties.  As shortages of fertilizer could have very serious
effects on the viability of the project, as the soil fertility must be re-
scored after land-shaping operations and the farmer must assume a heavy debt
obligation, supplemental fertilizer supplies have been included in the proj-
ect. In calculating the amounts required (Table 2), it has been assumed
-hit supplicSs slhould be guaranteed for three years after on-farm development
and .hat allocations without the project would average 33% of requirements.
Ite following supplemental tonnages (nutrient terms) would be required:
N - 26,140 toin: P205 - 19,550 ton; K 0 -220 ton. The cost of these fer-
tilizers has been5 estlmated at Rs 15i million (Table 2), based on prices
discussed in Annex 14.



ANNEX 12
Page 9
34.       Tne full prolect supplementary fertilizer requirements would be
procured by GOI early in the project implementation period and added to the
central pool. Annual allocations would be made to GOR based on the amount
of on-farm development previously completed. GOI agreed to allocate yearly
to Rajasthan between 1975 and 1984, fertilizer in the quantity and of the
types financed out of the proceeds of the Credit (see para 4.10 for further
details).
35.       Fertilizers allocated to GOR under this project and the Chambal
CAD Project would be allotted to the Rajasthan Agro-Industries Corporation
or the Rajasthan Cooperative Marketing Federation, which would act as GOR's
agents and would be controlled by a Steering Committee. The committee would
allocate fertilizers to the project areas, fix retail prices to the farmers
and determine retail outlets and trading margins. The Area Development
Commissioner, in consultation with the Extension Director, would determine
the retail outlets in the project area. These outlets would be Village
Cooperative Societies, Marketing Societies, Consumer Cooperatives, Panchayat
Committees, Agro-Industry Centers or fertilizer dealers.
36.       All retail outlets would sell fertilizers to project farmers
only against vouchers signed by the VLW's (para 37). All fertilizer
supplies drawn by these retailers from the Agro-Industries Corporation or
the Co-operative Marketing Federation would require these vouchers to
indicate that the allocation had been sold to eligible project farmers in
the quantities indicated on the voucher and as certified by the VLW's.
For the first year's allocation, no vouchers would be available and the
quantities would be sold in trust to the retailers until the end of the
growing season.
37.       Eaclh project farmer, on signing the loan application for his
on-farm development loan, would be issued with a booklet printed by the
CAA entitling hlim to supplementary fertilizer for the following three years.
rne booklet would contain detachable vouchers for each crop season on which
the VLW would certify:
(a) Fertilizer requirements for the next crop season; and
(b) Actual fertilizer use, for the previous crop season,
as determined by the VLW.
Thlis certification would be required from the second crop season onwards and
would ensure that fertilizers drawn from the retailers had indeed been used
otn thle farm in the previous crop season and not resold by the farmers.
38.       The vouchers duly signed and stamped by the VLW would be signed
by the farmer in the presence of the dealer when the purchase is effected
and would serve as documentation for the dealer that the fertilizer had
been sold to eligible project area farmers. Fertilizer would be sold to
the farmers for cash or credit, as is done at present.






ANNEX 1 2
Table 1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMKAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Recommended Levels of Fertilizer Application
Project
Project             Year 10
Season and Crop                                Year 1        and subsecuently
-.-Nutrients (kha)---
N    P    K         N    P    K
Kharif
Sugarcane                                35   15   10       150   70  '0
Cotton                                   40   20    -       100   50
M4illet                                  20   10    -        80   4o
Pulses                                    5   20    -        15   60    -
Fodder                                   30   20    -        60   4.0    -
Grounlnut                                40   20    -        15   60    -
Paddy                                    40   20    -       150   o0    -
Rabi
Wheat                                    40   20    -       120   D0    -
Mustard                                  30   20    -        80   50    -
Gram & Other Pulses                       5   20    -        15   oO    -
Berseem                                   5   20    -        15  Co-     -
Potatoes                                 30   20   15       120   0  1i10



INDIA
flsJA S?HAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Fertilizer Requirement
Recommended Level
of Fertilizer Application                                                   Cost---------------
*   Project Year 5              Cost/ha        Area         Per Single Year   Per Three Years
----------kg/ha)--------         -(Rs)--        (haT                      TRs '0-
N    P205   K20
Sugarcane           90    40      35               533          2,000              1,066                3,198
Cotton              70    35       -                363         46,000            16,698               50,094
Millet              50    25        -               260         10,000             2,600                7,800
Pulses              15    40       -                182         30,000             5,460               16,380
Fodder (Sorghum)   45    30         -               258         10,000             2,580                7,740
Groundnut           15    40       -                182         10,000             1,820                5,460
Paddy               90    40       -                452          4,000             1,808                5,424
V.heat              80    40        -               416         69,000            28,704               86,112
Mustard             55    35        -               316         24,000             7,584               22,752
Gram                15    40        -               182         49,000             8,918               26,754
Fodder (Berseem)   15    40        -                182          3,000               546                1,638
Potatoes            75    50      40                522          1,000               522                1,566
Total                                                   260,000                                234,918
Total.        N       P205     X 20
--------- (nutrient t-o-ns)-----'---             
Estimated Three Years Fertilizer Requirements:           68,535      39,( 15 tr9i,n1t     330 
Estimated Availability:                                  22, , 16       -        -         -
Dericit:                                                 45,919         _        _
Esitimated Cost of Fertilizer Deficit (Rs Million):                       157.4



ANNEX 13
Page   1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL CO"MAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Production
Present Cropping Pattern
1.        Irrigated crops grown during the kharif include cotton, pulses
(mainlv Phaseolus spp.) hybrid millet, paddy, sorghum grown for fodder,
and ground nuts. The rabi irrigated crops include wheat, mustard, gram,
berseem (Trifolium alexandrium), potatoes and vegetables. Sugarcane is
growTn on a twelve month cycle. The crops are shown on the crop calendar
(Figure 1) which indicates that the late harvest of cotton tends to pre-
clude more intensive double cropping. Improved crop varieties adapted
to the project area are shown in Appendix I of this Annex. The two soil
types (tal and sandy) in the project area, support the same range of crops,
with minor exceptions (ground nuts are confined to sandy soils and paddy to
tal soils).
2.        The present cropping intensity on farms already irrigated varies
from about 30% per year in Block A to 70% in Block B. With the availability
of Pong Dam water in 1974, it is estimated that this cropping intensity will
rise to 90% in both areas and that the pattern would be as shown on Table 1.
Cotton and pulses in the kharif and wheat and gram in the rabi would be the
most important crops. Sugar cane would continue to be grown in both seasons.
3.        Present crop yields in ton/ha are as follows:  cotton, 1.2; pulses,
pulses, 0.8; hybrid millet, 1.3; sugarcane, 45; paddy, 2.2; groundnuts, 1.0;
wheat, 1.6; gram, 1.3; and mustard, 0.7. Fodder from sorghum or berseem yields
25 ton/ha. These comparatively low yields are a function of the present
inadequate on-farm water delivery, low inputs (particularly fertilizers and
unimproved seed) and poor farm practices (plant protection and time of
planting). In the event that the project were not undertaken, it has been
assumed for project evaluation purposes that these yields constraints would
be gradually overcome as indicated by the following ratios:
Year                     0        5       10       15         25
Ratio of With/Without
- Project Yield              1.0      1.45     1.3    1.2           1.0
4.        The farm equipment now available includes the traditional oxen-
drawn plows, smoothing boards, etc. Nearly all present farm operations
are carried out by draft animals. A pair of oxen for plougliing, camels
for transport and milk cows (often buffalo) represent the typical stock
holding, anld requires a plentiful supply of home-grown fodder for sustenance.
Farm meclianizationi with 35 hp wheeled tractors, is already being introduced
on a small scale, generally under custom-hire arrangements. On the estimated



ANNEX 13
Page 2
34,000 ha of tal soils, the use of tractors in land preparation would grad-
ually increase. New settlers arrive in the project area with the necessary
minimum of livestock and equipment and are fully equipped, at the modest
level required, within five years.  Mud-brick ouildings are quickly erected
by the cultivators as required fcr living and storage.
Projected Cropping Pattern
5.        Projected changes in the cropping pattern would:
(a)  maximize the cropped area within the constraints
of a fixed water allocation per farm, by introducing
a high proportion of lightly irrigated crops; and
(b) make full use of improved cultivation practices and
additional inputs (fertilizer, plant protection, and
improved seed).
Thie projected cropping pattern is shown on Table 1. No new crops are pro-
posed under the project. Cropping intensities would increase to 130% over
the 6 ha net area of each farm, within a year of being developed (levelled
or reclaimed) and the irrigation supply connected at the lined watercourse.
By the end of 6 years, the full 200,000 ha would be cropped at the 130% in-
tensity. The estimated increases in cropped area would be from 41% to 56%
in the Kharif season and from 49% to 74% in the Rabi season. The increased
cropping intensity mainly reflects the substantial increases in the cropped
areas of cotton (+7%), wheat (+9%), gram (10%) and with smaller but valuable
increases in fodder, groundnuts, mustard, and paddy; the latter increasing
from 1% to 3%, is a suitably adapted crop during sodic tal soils reclama-
tion. Vegetables and sugarcane would continue to be grown in a small area
in both seasons, and millet during the Kharif season.  Cropped area pro-
jections are given in Tables 2 and 3.
6.        The increase in yield which would be expected for all major crops
are presented in Tables 4 and 5. By year 6 of the project these increases
in ton/ha would be:  cotton, 2.5; wheat, 4; gram 1.80 to 2.52 respectively
on tal and sandy soils; fodder 45; and pulses 0.98 to 1.24. These increases'
wqould be the result of the introduction of sustained extension efforts, which
would assist the farmers to make thie best use of water, improved seeds,
fertilizer, plant protection, and on-farm practices. The yield increases
would commence in the year following land development and the introduction
of assured year-round water supplies to the farms. Farmers in small areas
on the developed parts of the RCP (at the canal heads of Block B) have
shown a rapid response to additional water supplies, selectively utilizing
the water for their most valuable crops (cotton, wheat, pulses, and gram).
Crop yields would continue to increase rapidly to year 10 and thereafter they
would be expected to level off gradually. By year 25 the with- and without-project
yields would be equal.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
7.        Crop production would increase from year 2 of the project through
year 6 as a result of the combined effect of new land development, increased
cropping intensity, and crop yield increases.  Thereafter, production in-
crease would reflect increasing crop yields only. Crop production is pro-
jected to increase as follows:
Crop          Present           Year 16
 ---(ton)------------
Cotton          23,000           115,000
Wheat           38,000           276,000
Pulses           9,000            36,000
Fodder         125,000           585,000
Gram           22,000            117,000
The crop productions for the present, year 6, year 11, and year 16 situations
are shown in Table 6.






ANNEX 13
Appendix I
Page   1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Varieties of Project Crops
The following improved varieties of crops are adapted to the area
and give better results than any older material available to farmers:
Sugarcane
Co 312:   Suited to light, well-drained soils; medium (4C-60 tons/ha)
yield potential; best for sugar extraction.
Co 1253: Suited to medium soils; better for ratooning, higher
(60-80 tons/ha) yield potential; suitable for gur and sugar.
Co_419:   Suited to fine soils; high (80-120 tons/ha) yield
potential; high sugar content; late maturing.
Cotton
320 F:    Staple 0.9 in; ginning out-turn 33-34%; count 37; yield
1.5 tons/ha; late.
Rs 89:    Staple 1.05 in; ginning out-turn 40%; count 40; yield
1.6-1.8 tons/ha; late; higher market value to 320F.
Pearl Millet
HB3:      Tall (for hybrid); high tillering; medium ear length;
bold, shiny grain; drought resistant; 2.5-3.0 tons/ha yield
potential; 80-85 days maturity.
HB4:      Taller than HB3; high tillering; shiny grain; less
drought tolerant; higher (3.0-3.5 tons/ha) yield; later
(85-90 days) maturity.
Pulses (Mloong: Phaseolus aureus)
Baisakhi Moon        Early maturing; short; erect; first picking
after 60 days; summer catch crop; yield 0.3-0.4 tons/ha.
Surgpura:            Early maturing; medium height; yield
0.3-0.4 tons/ha.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
Groundnut
AK12-24: Erect growth; high (45%) oil content; medium
maturity; yield potential 2 tons and above per ha.
Paddy
IR8:      Dwarf; stiff straw; fertilizer responsive; high
tlllering; coarse grained; medium to L.ong maturity; high
(4-5 tons/ha) yield potential (Philipines HYV).
Jhara 349:     Tall; weak straw; coarse grain; medium maturity
(15-25 days earlier than IR8); yield potential 3.0 to 3.5 tons/ha
(locally bred variety).
Wheat
Kalyan Sona:   Dwarf; fertilizer responsive; high tillering;
amber grain; long; rust resistant; medium to late maturity;
yield 3.0-4.0 tons/ha.
Lal Bahadur:   Triple gene dwarf; profuse tillering; fertilizer
responsive; amber grain; long; medium to late maturity; yield
3.5-4.0 tons/ ha.
Gram
RS10:     Medium maturity; yield potential 2.0 tons/ha.
RS11:     Medium maturity; irrigation responsive; yield
potential 2.5 tons/ha.



INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cropping Calendar
Crop and Season     January      February     March      April     May      June     July      August      September   October    November    December
KHARIF
Sugarcane        .-1  *                                                    _
Cotton           ----------_------------------ _-----------------------------------------_                                     -----______ __ -.__ _____
Millet          .-- -- - ---_   -------------                                                                     ----- _-_--- ------ iF
Pulses                                                                    ------_____ ._____.-_____-____                        -_____
Fodder                                                         ---------*---                           ____________                        ------
Groundnuts                                             -___-_ ___._____*_-____.--------- -                                  ------        -----
Paddy                                                                   e-- ---- -- -------- #----------------
RABI
Wheat           ---------- - ----------- - ------ F--------                                   -----                                                   *_. ____ -_-.-_-__
Mustard         ___________. .     ------------                                                                  --- ----------   ----________
Gram  - 4                                       *
Desired Range
-------------   POsRible Ranse
*-----------*   Range of Sowing Period
-----------#4  Range of Harvesting Period






ANNFE 13
Table 1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present and Projected Cropping Pattern
Season and Crop                                Present          Projectodo
(With Pong Dam
Kharif
Sugarcane                                      1                 1
Cotton                                        16                23
Millet                                         65
Pulses                                        12                14
Fodder (Sorghum)                               3                 5
Groundnuts                                     2                 5
Paddy                                          1                 3
Sub-Total                                41                56
Rabi
Sugarcane                                      1                 1
11heat                                        25                 34
Mustard                                        8                12
Gram                                          14                24
Fodder (Berseem)                               1                 2
Vegetables and others                          _                 1
Sub-Total                                49                74
Total                                90               130



INDIA
Rk.iJ,S3THAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cropped Areas Progression - Without Project
Season and Crops    Present and
(aIi irrigated)    Year 1        Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 11   Year 12 - 16
----------------------------------'0  ha-----------------------------_-_--_
Kharif
Sugarcane              1             1         1         1        1         1         1             1
Cotton                19            20        22       23        25        26        34            35
Millet (Bajra)         4             5         5         5        6         6         8             8
Pulses                12            13        14       15        16        17        22            23
Fodder (Sorghum)       4             4         5        5         5         5         7             7
Groundnut              4             4         4        5         5         6         7             7
Paddy                  1             2         2        2         2         2         3             3
Sub-Total        45            49       53        56        60       63        82            84
Rabi
Sugarcane              1             1         1        1         1         1         1             1
hIeat                 24            26        29       30        32        34        44            45
Mustard                9             9        10       11        11        12        15            16
Gram                  17            19        20       22        23        25        31            32
Fodder (Perseem)       1             1         1         1        1         1         2             2
Potatoes              _             -         -        -          1         1         1             1
Sub-Total        52            56       61        65        69       74        94            97
Total       97           105       114       1c1      129       137       176          11       



INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA LEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cropped Area Progression - With Project
Season and Crop     Present and
(all irigated)    Year 1       Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5   Year 6   Year 11   Year 16
-------------------------'- -o  ha)-----------------------------
Kharif
Sugarcane             1            1        1        2        2         2        2         2
Cotton               19           22       29       36       41        46       46        46
Millet (Bajra)        4            5        6        7         9       10       10        10
Pulses               12           14       18       22        27       30       30        30
Fodder (Sorghum)      4            5        6         7        9       10       10        10
Groundnut             4            5        6         7        9       10       10         10
Paddy                 1            2        2        3         4        4        4         4
Sub-Total       45           54       68       84       101      112      112       112
Rabi
Sugarcane             1            1        1         2        2        2        2          2
Wheat                24           33        43       52       62       69       69         69
Mustard               9           11        14       17       22       24       24         24
Gram                 17           24        30       38       44       49       49         49
Fodder (Berseem)      1            1         1        2        3        3         3         3
Potatoes             -             1        1        1         1        1        1          1
Sub-Total       52           71       90      112       134      148      148        148
Total       97          125      15B      196       235      260      260        260



INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Yields by Land Types - Future Without Project
Pre-Pro ject
Crop                   and Year 1                  Year 2                   Year 3                  Year 4                     Year 5                   Year 6                   Year 11                  Year 16
Sandy          Tal       Sandy          Tal      Sandy           Tal      Sandy           Tal      Sandy           Tal       Sandy          Tal       Sandy           Tal      Sandy           Tal
Soils         Soils      Soils         Soils     Soils          Soils     Soils          Soils     Soils          Soils     Soils          Soils      Soils         Soils      Soils          Soils
----------- -~  ~-~ ~ ~  Z,:  ------ -      -       ---------~~~~ ~~ -~ 7 = -----   -- -~~ t(ton/ha) ----- ---- ----- ------- ---------- -- - ----- ---- --- -- - --- ----- ------ ---------------- ----------
Kharnf Season
Sugareane            ----- 45.00 -----         ---- 45.00-----          ---- 45.50-----          ---- 45.50 ----         ----- 46.00-----          ----- 46.50              ----- 59.00 ----         ----- 66.50
Cotton                1.24         1.00        1.24         1.00        1.25         1.01        1.26         1.03        1.27         1.os        ------ 1.28 -----         -__- 1.73 -----         ------ 2.09
Millet                1.36         1.16        1.36         1.16        1.43         1.17        1.53         1.22        1.65         1.32        1.80          1.44        2.54         2.05        3.03          2.43
Pulses                  .83          .66         .83          .66         .86          .68         .89          .70         .91          .73         .93          .78        1.09          .85        1.22         0.98
Foddert              ----- 25.00-----         ----- 25.00-----         ----- 25.20-----         ----- 25.60-----        ------ 26.10----          ----- 26.90-----          ----- 33.10 -----        ---- 36.00 ---
Groundnuts            1.00           -         1.00           -         1.06           -         1.14           -         1.24           -         1.39           -          2.06          -          2.50
Paddy                  _           2.20          -          2.20         -           3.26         -           2.34         -           2.42          -           2.54         -           3.24         -
Rabi Season
Wheat                      - 1.60-----         -----  1.67 -----       ------ 1.67 -----         ----- 1.77 ------    ------- 1.90 -----           ----- 2.07 -----          ----- 2.80 -----         ------ 3.33
M4ustard             -------                             7270273-----  __7__-- -3723-----  -----3- 72---  ------ - 73 --- ----- 75 ----            -------  8 -----          ------ 1.13 -----        ------ 1.33
Gram                  1.40          1.00       1.41         1.00        1.41         1.00        1.42        1.01         1.43         1.00         1.45         1,04        1.84         1.32        2.10          1.50
Foddery-                    25.00-----        ----- 25.50-----         ----- 25.50-----         ---- 26.00 ------      ----- 27.00 -----         ----- 27,75   ----- 32.00  ----                  ----- 37.50  ----
Potatoes              ----- 4.00 ----         ------ 5.20 -----        ----- 5.20-----           ----- 6.10------       ------ 6.90 -----          ----- 7.70 -----         ----- 10.70 -----        ----- 12.50 -----
Gram   (rainfed)        .28          .20         .28          .20         .28          .20         .28         .20          .29          .20         .29          .21          .37          .26         .42
1/ Sorghum.
2/ Berseem.                                                                                                                                                                                                                4 



INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Yields by Land Types - Future With Project
Pre-Project
Crop             and Year 1                    Year 2                    Year 3                     Year 4                    Year 5                     Year 6                     Year 11                    Year 16
Sandy            Tal      Sandy            Tal      Sandy             Tal      Sandy            Tal       Sandy            Tal      Sandy             Tal      Sandy             Tal      Sandy             Tal
Soils           Soils    Soils            Soils    Soils             Soils    Soils            Soils    Soils             Soils     Soils            Soils     Soils            Soils     Soils            Soils
-(ton/ha-----------.-----)------)-------------------------------------------------- (ton/ha) ------------------------------------------------_---_-_-----_________________,______
Kharif Season
Sugarcane       ------ 45.00 -------       ----- -   51.50-------    ----- 56.50-------    ------ 60.50                          64.00 ------               67.50-------      ----- 77.00 -----         ------ 80.00 ---
Cotton           1.24            1.00      1.31             1.09      1.42            1.21      1.54             1.35      1.70            1.49               1.80                       2.30                       2.50
MflIet           1.36            1.16       1.50            1.25      1.72             1.40      2.00            1.64      2.30             1.89      2.60             2.08      3.30             2.64      3.63             2.90
Pulses           0.83            0.66      1.00             0.78      1.09            0.86      1.15             0.93      1.19            0.95       1.21            0.97       1.24            0.99       1.24            0.99
Fodder-         ------ 25.00-------    ------ 28.00-------    ------ 31.00-------                  -  34.00-------    ------ 37.00-------    ------ 39.00-------               ------ 43.00-------    ------ 45.00-------
Groundnuts       1.00                       1.30             .        1.40                       1.60             .        1.80              .        2.00              .        2.70              .        3.00
Paddy             .              2.20        .              2.40       .              2.68        .              2.90        .             3.10        .               3.30       .              4.20        .              5.00
Rabi Season
wheat           ------- 1.60-------    ------- 1.80-------    ------- 2.10-------    ------- 2.40------                   ------- 2.70-------    ------- 3.00-------            ------- 3.70-------    ------- 4.00-------
Mustard         ------- 0.70-------    ------- 0.80-------    ------- 0.90-------    ------- 1.00------                   ------- 1.10-------    ------- 1.17------            ------- 1.45-------    ------- 1.60-------
Gram  2          1.40            1.00       1.58            1.13      1.75            1.25       1.88            1.34       2.00            1.43      2.09             1.49       2.39            1.71      2.52             1.80
Fodder          ------ 25.00-------    ----- 28.75-------    ------ 32.00-------    ------ 34.50-------    ------ 37.75-------    ------ 38.50-------                         ------ 43.00-------    ------ 45.00-------
Potatoes        ------- 4.00-------    ------- 6.00-------    ------- 8.00-------    ------ 11.00-------    ------ 13.00-------    ----- 15.00-------    ----- 18.00-------    ------ 20.00-------
1/ Sorghum.
2/ Berseem.



INDIA
RAJASTHRN CANAL COMMAND AMRF DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ARricuitural Production - Present and Future
Year 6                 Year Uh                   Year 16
With        witfiout-   with        Without       W.1witho-Ut
Present     Project      Project    Project       Project      Project      Project
Production   Production  Production Production  Production   Production   Production
Crops_._
Crops~~~~ _______-__  __________----- __________----__  __________-________-       -
Kharif
Sugarcane                     -           -            -           -
Cotton                     22.8        82.8         33.3      105.8         58.8        115.0         73.1
Millet (Bajra)              5.3        25.1          9.6        32.0        18.4          35.0         21.8
Pulses                      9.6        33.5         14.6        36.0        21.3          36.0        25.3
Fodder (sorghum)          100.0       390.0        134.5       430.0       231.7        450.0         252.0
Groundnut                   4.0        20.0          8.3        27.0         14.4         30.0         17.5
Paddy                       2.2        13.2          5.1        16.8         9.7          20.0            -
Rabi
Sugarcane                  45.o       135.0         46.5       154.0         59.0        160.0         66.5
Wheat                      38.4       207.0         70.4       255.3        123.2        276.0        148.5
Mustard                     6.3        26.8          9.6        34.8         16.9         38.4         21.3
Gram                       22.6        98.0         31.3       111.2         48.9        117.6         57.6
Fodder (berseea)           25.0       115.5         27.5       129.0         64.0        135.0         75.0
Potatoes                      -        15.0          7.7        18.0        10.7          20.0         12.5
O; w
f n
o H
oNH



ANNEX 14
Page   1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
Marketing, Processing, Storage and Prices
Marketing
1.        The marketable surpluses (para 6) expected by Year 6 of the proj-
ect would be small in comparison with the projected increase in requirements
in the States of Rajasthan and its neighibours of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar
Pradesh and very small in comparison with national requirements. The sur-
pluses could be easily absorbed.
2.        iormally, goods are sent to market (Mandi) by local transport--
a cart owned eitlher by the produzer or a fellow villager--but, where road
communications are suitable, trucks may be used. For crops not under Govern-
ment control, the marketable surplus is sold by an agent, for a 1% commision.
The agents also act as moneylenders.
3.        Farmers in project Blocks A and B now sell their marketable surplus
mainly in the existing wholesale markets that serve contiguous parts of the
Gang and Bhakra canal areas. These markets are siutated in small towns
(populations range from 1,000 to 15,000) and each serves as a collecting
point and wholesale market for a number of villages. The main commodities
han(dled are wheat, cotton, gram, mustard and paddy but oilseeds, pulses and
millet are also important.
4.        Block B is served by three market towns:  one (Rawatsar) lies
within its boundaries, and there are two more (Suratgarh and Piliganga)
that are less than 10 miles away. (Small farmers in Block B use the
market at Hlanumangarh town and Hanumangarh junction which are farther
away.) Block A is served by five market towns, none of which is within
the boundaries of the area but there are four markets (Jetsar, Bijeynagar,
Ramsinghpur, Anupgarh) that are all less than two miles from the area and
there is a fifth (Raisinghnagar) that is ten miles away.
5.        GOR recognizes that the existing market facilities are generally
below desirable standards: most are congested, they have insufficient space
for exhiibiting and storing farm products, auction platforms either do not
exist or are too small and hygiene facilities are inadequate. Moreover,
the growth of agricultural production in the project areas as well as in the
rest of the RCJ', and in the existing Gang and Bhakra Canal command areas will
soon yield a greater volume of output than these markets can handle. Proposed
GOR investments (para 8) in market facilities are not included in the project
and would be barely adequate to serve the needs of the project area. These
proposals therefore require revision.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
6.        The anticipated increases in production of major crops after
Year 6 should give rise to marketable surpluses as indicated:
Marketable Surpluses
Crop                       Present      Future        Increment
(Year 6)
--(-------'(000 tons)-----------
;Wheat                       22          170             148
Cotton                       20           82              62
Gram                         10           50              40
Mustard                       6           26              20
Paddy                         2           10               8
Groundnut                     3           19              16
Millet                        4           18              14
7.        GOR's present program for improving and expanding market facili-
ties in the RCP area involves increasing the present number of markets by
13, two of which (Gharsana and Rawala) would be located in Block A to serve
areas otherwise difficult of access.
8.        The investments required depend upon the class of market town that
is being planned, but would include expenditures on the market yards (auction
platforms, places for product shorage and display, cattle yard, go-downs,
markets, offices, a post office, farmers' resthouses, etc.) and also the
sites and services for the whnle market town. The services to be provided
*ould include roads and footpaths, facilities for the purification and
distribution of drinking water, drainage and sewerage, and electric power.
Tiiese facilities would be provided on land destined for all uses (commercial,
industrial, public and residential). The following program is proposed.
Present Proposed Market Towns Investments
Eventual
Design                                  Estimated Expenditure
Market-Town   Population   No.   Unit Cost   Total    in first five years
------ (Rs Million)----------------
C 1{';s A         50,(00      1       41.0       41.0              14.4
B          20,0()(     7        20.(0     140.0             49.0
C           lOt10VO    1        10.1       10.1              3.5
191.1             66.9



ANNEX 14
Page 3
9.        The Rajasthan Agro-industries Corporation would develop the market
town and recover some of the costs by the sale of building sites for com-
mercial and residential development. The operation and maintenance of the
markets and the recovery of market fees would be supervised by the local
Market Committees.
Processing
10.       The principal need in processing equipment will be for additional
cotton ginning capacity. The additional production of seed-cotton is esti-
mated at 62,000 tons by the sixth year, and 84,000 tons by the eleventh year.
To process 62,000 tons/year, 15 in3tallations would be necessary. A plant
with 16 double-roller gins and one press would have the following composi-
tion and cost:
Rs '000
Land                                             100
Site preparation and buildings                  366
Plant and machinery                              660
Othier fixed assets                               60
Capitalized pre-operative expenses                74
Total              _1260
Total for 15 installations                 18.9 million
11.       Specific sites have not yet been selected, but it is expected
that the ginneries would be located in the principal market towns which
already exist in the area or are proposed. Ownership of the ginneries has
not been finalized. The Cotton Corporation of India controls cotton pur-
chases and ensures fair prices to farmers but does not operate ginneries.
They and the associated oil mills may therefore be organized cooperatively.
12.       No additional sugar factory capacity is at present planned in the
RCP area. The additional production will be processed into gur (unrefined
brown sugar) by local operators.
Storage
13.       Storage capacity would be required for the incremental production
in the pre-project period in Block A and for the incremental production
arising under the project in both blocks.  By the end of year five of the
project, there will be an increase of about 250,000 tons of food crops for
both blocks. Wiarelhousing capacity would be needed for about 30% of the in-
cremental production from Year 5 onwards and about 90,000 ton capacity would



ANNEX 14
Page 4
eventually be required. Unit costs of large-scale storage are estimated at
about Rs 250/ton. This would imply an outlay by year five of Rs 22.5 mil-
lion. The large-scale storage can be constructed for the Rajasthan State
Warehousing Corporation, which could also operate the facilities. Short-
term storage facilities for private traders which would be provided in the
proposed market mandis is estimated to cost Rs 13 million.
Prices
14.       Farm-gate prices used for estimating farm income and for eval-
uating the economic benefits of the project are shown in Table 1. For the
major crops, cotton, wheat and sorghum, farm-gate prices were derived from
estimated world market prices for 1980, compiled by the Bank's Economic
Analysis and Projections Department, with appropriate adjustments for
freight, handling, processing and storage. For sorghum, the farm-gate
price was reduced to allow for the quality differential between the project
area production and the internationally traded product. As the prices so
derived are very close to average actual farm-gate prices in the project
area in recent years, the same prices were used for the project financial
analysis.
15.       For the other crops, which are not foodgrains, production is
small and is consumed domestically. Failure to produce these crops in
the project area would not result in any increase in imports and, therefore,
world market prices, which in any case are only available for a few of these
crops, are hardly relevant for project analysis. Therefore, for these crops,
average actual farm-gate prices over the past four years, adjusted to early-
1974 values, were used, for bothA economic and financial analysis.
16.       Bank projections of fertilizer prices show a decline over the
next five years. For project economic and financial analysis, values above
the projected 1980 levels, but generally below the peak levels experienced
in early 1974 were used, so that the full impact of the expected high cost
of fertilizer on the farm budgets during the critical early years of project
development would be fully accounted for.



ANNEX 14
Table 1
fINDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVEWUPMINT P10JSCi
Summary of Prices
11       Price fob/cif.Bombay
Estimated Farm-gate Price               2/ Actual   Projec d
Crop                Seeds  Produce            Estimate    1974Y/    1980 U
--- (Rs/ton)            -           (US$Jton) -
Cotton                 1,300      2,100               860      2,000       860
Paddy                  1,300        900     Rice&    145          300+   130-165
Sorghum                  875        700                65        125        85
Millet                 7,500        800                65         140       90
Kharif pulses          1,650      1,200
Groundnut              1,950      1,400                .
Sugarcane                125        100                .
Wheat                  1,300      1,950               105         230    100-135
Grar                   1,300        900                .           ,
Mustard                          11,750                .
Potatoes                 800        600
Fodder                10.,000
Fertilizer
(nutri-ent tons)
f.o.r.
Farm-gate Price    Suratgarh
N                      4,ooo             3,600        425         600      250
P20s                   3,600             3,200        380                  250
K20                    2,600             2,300        275         120      110
1/  Prices used in project financial and economic analysis.
T/ Equivalent of estimated farm-gate produce price.
3/ January, 1974 world market prices.
I!/  World Bank projections of February, 1974
/ Assumed 25% brokens.






ANNEX 15
Page 1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budgets
1.        The main purposes of estimating farm budgets are:
(a)  to determine the effects of the project on farm income
on a typical farm for each of the major soil types; and
(b)  to determine the capacity of the project beneficiaries
to repay a commercial bank loan for on-farm development.
2.        Two farm models were analyzed, each of 6 ha and each with a
cropping pattern (Table 1) approximating the average for the project area
(Annex 13). The first model assumes sandy soil, and thus is representative
of about 80% of the project area, while the second assumes Tal soil. Pro-
duction costs, labor inputs, yields and prices are summarized in Table 1 and
are derived from the data presented in Annex 13 and 14. The build-up in
farm income over 16 years is shown in Table 2. After land levelling and
watercourse lining in year 0, there would be an immediate substantial in-
crease in production due to the increased volume of water available and the
greater degree of water control possible.
3.        Total labor inputs per farm would increase from around 620 man-
days per farm per year at present to about 880 man-days at full development.
Wlile, for most of the year, family labor could supply this demand, there
would be peak months (particularly October and November) where hired labor
would be required. It was estimated that 15% of all labor would be hired
under present conditions, rising to 25% at full development.
4.        All farmers under the project would be required to repay loans
for land purchase and on-farm development. The purchase price of a 6.32 ha
farm would vary from about Rs 12,000 to Rs 20,000 according to soil quality.
GOR is providing loans to the settlers for the purchase of their land. These
loans are free of interest and repayable over 15 years, including a year of
grace.  To arrive at conservative financial estimates, a government loan of
Rs 20,000, equal to the cost of the most fertile land, has been used in the
farm models. The cost of on-farm development, including watercourse lining,
would vary from about Rs 6,000 to about Rs 15,000 per farm (Annex 6) accord-
ing to the soil type, terrain, natural drainage conditions and other factors.
Again to arrive at conservative estimates, it was assumed in the models that
the total cost of on-farm development would be Rs 15,000 and that the full
cost would be provided through a commercial bank loan at 10% annual interest,
repayable over ten years with two years' grace (Table 2). The farm models
examined assume that both the land purchase and the on-farm development
would take place in year 0.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
5.        It is assumed that existing farmers and new settlers would
provide from their own resources and through family labor the cost of
farmyard development, including housing for the farm family, an initial
set of farm implements and at least a pair of working animals. Most
existing farmers have made these contributions already in part or total
and new settlers admitted to the project area from overcrowded farm districts
elsewhere, usually arrive with the implements and working animals needed to
start cultivation. The farmer's own initial investment is estimated at about
Rs 1,000/ha, or 15% of the total on-farm investment.
Results
6.        The cash flow projections shown in Table 2 show that the project
area farmers would be able to meet their debt obligations, if given two years'
grace on the repayment of principal. This might be reduced to one year's
grace on cases where the farmer has some financial reserves to fall back upon
in case of adverse cropping conditions in the first few years of project im-
plementation. In most cases, however, two years' grace on the repayment of
principal would be needed to give a sufficient cushion against unforeseen
expenses, crop failure or operating difficulties with the newly-constructed
works. The family consumption figure of Rs 5,000 is believed reasonable in
view of the comparatively large farm size the GOR has decided to allot.
7.        In later years, the financial position of the settlers would be
fairly comfortable. At full development, net farm income is projected to
be about Rs 20,000 per year and a cash surplus of about Rs 12,000 would be
available for farm improvements and replacement of farm implements. This
cash surplus would also be necessary to finance the farmer's own land
leveling expenses, for land excluded from the project because of a need
for only light leveling (Annex 3).



IRDIA
RAJASIItiN CANAL CGIIMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Pars, Results
Soseory of Data Used in the FPrn Models
Pro-ected Cropping Patterns                             ProJected Crop Yields                              Prejerted Nrt FPres Revenoe
Sandy Soil                Tal Soil                   Sandy Soil                  Tat SetS                   Sondy Soil                  Tal Soil             Estint.d            Estitated Labor Ineptl/                 Czt-mstcd Coot of l,pos UPee
Projent                  Project                                                                                                                     FPrn Gate   Mao-         P.eaert    Year I       Year 16
Present    D-velop-sst  Present    Develspsert   Prenent   YPer 16 end  P-esc.t    Year 16 end              Present    Yeor 16 ond  Present    Year 16 and    Pricos           seurs_/              in Man-lDoy                 Peceent       Year 10
Coops            Situation  Conplted    Situation  Completed          Situation  Thereaft-r   Sittio   Therefte              Situ.tion  Thereaftor   Situotion   Thereafter    in Rs/ho   (per ha)                  -    6 ha fer -----            er 1    nd thereaft
-------------(in . of Far  Are)--------------    --------------(in  ton- per ho)----------------          -----------(in  Rs per 6 h  f.a)-------------                               Sdy    al  Sdy   y T    Sandy Tel       -      (to Rs per h)-------
Socr Cane                    -            -            2             4              -            -           _             -               -            _            -             -            _
Cotton                    15           25           14            1.            1.24        2.52        1.00          2.52           1,074        6,Co)        1,445         4,751         ,o101     1,02-    115  108    192  133  238   207              380              850
Millet                       3            5            4                                                                                 1 1.1 3.63  1.16  2.910 173  71  190    431          800        70t     16   .1       27   21   35    17            125              525
PMlet-                      11           4c 1D                      4,            O.83        i.24        O.16          D.99 6P1                    1 ,12          424           691        1,210        535      32   23      46   37   60    43              35             315
F.dd~~~~~~~~~~~ 4/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       315~~; 22  o6  39
F3                         5                        25.10       45.o1       25.5D1        4i.oo               -            -            -             -            -        cr7      15   15      2D   25   33    33            235              425
3roundnut                     3           5            -             -            1.D5        5.50           -                           188        1,099            -             _        1,400        700    1i      -      26    -   34      -           355              535
Paddy                       _             -            7             2_                                   2.23          5.00               -            -          735         2,534          900        920       -   43       -   83    -   108            230              980
RA3BI
PST
Su sr Cone                    -            -            -                            -              _    4.oc          80.00               -            -          440         1,n12          100      1,955       -   29       -   58    -    75            830            1,700
Whett                        JR           34          20            31            1.io       4.30         1.Gc,         4.00            ,011        6,o46        1,344         5,549          950        712      96  107    182  171  236   222              400             910
Mustard                       7           2            7            12            0.70       1.6D         0.70          1.60             431        1,620          431         i,620        1,753        487      26   26      44   44   57    57             200             550
G-e  4/                      14          2b           15            24            1.40       2.52         1.00          1.30             94o        2,733          684         1,800          900        364      38   41      71   66   92    86             14o             370
Fodor                         1           2            1             2           o5. 0l     45.0o       25.5.00         5.00               -            -            -             -            -      1,195       9    9      13   18   23    23             250             483
Potatoe                       -           ,                          - _4.00                20.00            -             -               -        1 175            -             -          6oo        735       -    -      11    -   14       -        1,480            2,210
77                       73                                                                               5,617          1                   18                     ,878 Total:   363    3    52 661  B5   35
Cropping Intenoioy          75          130          7             131                                                                                                                       0  suwhch hired 3/   -    -       96   99  218   222
totol re-  requires-nt
quirmeent
5/ Asowoed ren f goto prico,s lees cots of ferotillers, seedo, ,nd plnot proteotien.
2/ Assumed thit a 6 ho fPen could supply 3 full time -orker- on 05 days per month thrseghoot tho ypor. A mum-dry hoe Seen ossumed to co-sist of 8 orking hours.
3/  Hired ibnor ho needed to beeak peek dnssod, usiuly doriog herveot periods.  A coto  of Rh  5.00 per mnu-dsy of 8 hours hso ber ressumed for hired lebi.
It ios  ued tht fodder could be used for on-fCon  corhkog -ni-1lo e d no costs hnce th-erefore bhe   included Sn the projected finesancil  fr  renults.
hi Present. dots frmn Prj-sthum Stae.
SRprneents coot of fertili-ern,  -sdo, -nd plunt pro-cotic-: on s per inR .    s recnmen-ded  rder- th  pjt fr  he shieveent of proje-ted  rop yielde,.



ANNEX 15
RAJASTHIAN CANAL COMFAS ASAA DrSWLCOPMCNT FRIOJLLr
nEote-dlnSton  ondLI-no          F-odss-d   C-h Poetion
A.  Warn Model onSandy Soil
Scar            7                                                  4            5            6            7            8           9           11           1            12           10            4           15           16           17.20
SOIltiCCI OF FF01
Land  'o-ha-  Loan..                                20,000             -            -           -            -                         -----------
Farm DvlpeT _loan                                   1500",I                                                  -            -            --                                                              ---'                                                   
lob-Tot1                                      31,1000-                                    -            -            -            -            ---                                                                                                                    
Net lane 8nn..noe~J                                  5,617        9,556       10,709      12,012       13,387       14,487       CAIROB       17,248       17,685       18,015      18,438       blO10        19,568       19,093       20,338       20,687       21,110        21,116
Loon   Wane  Ch-ree                                  150          150          150          192         192          192          192          192          192          19 2         1 92        1 92         19 2         092          192          192          192            192
Cost of  rod Labo-V                            -          480         520          560          6001         640          685          175          765          805         845          885          925          965        1,005        1,045        1,090         1,080
Internee-                          ~     ~    ~~~         ~~~~        ~~~~- 95  130  160  190    190          190          190          190          190         190          190          190          192          190          190          190           190
7/nelenoo                             130         300          300          300          300          300         201          300          300          300          300          300          300          300          288          300          380           300
Tonal Worn Onvn-                        5,317,    8_5131          9,609    .0_800         12,105       13.165       14,719,,    15_84~1,      1623         16,568       16,911,      17,541      1791          1,4           8  5         890         1,4           19,542
Fo-a  Fondo                           0.1          0.5311     _.619        IPa&&        12,103       03,065       14.719  1_      841___  1_   238___  1___ 68__     191          1750          796        1836           8_1           _960       19.342        19.342
TSE OW FUNDSI
Porb       f Land                                   20,000                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Wo."  le-Ip--oo  loEn.....            2/            05,000             -           -            -            -                         ------------
Debt Se-olo:  Lend N-rh-a  Loa-                           -           -          500         800        1,000        1,008        1,000        1,600        1,600        1,600       1,600        1,600        1,800        1,600        1,600        2,900--
Warn 0n-elp-In  L_oo                     Si    1,500        1,500        2,825       2,605        2,625        2,625        2,8 25       7,625        0,625        2,825             -           -             -           -             ---
Family All - ene5000D!  ..L.22.    5_&00                                                   5.000        5,000        3.000      5_000          6.000        8,008      6,,Q 0,0Q    6,,,,2i,    6_00fl,,      6,000,Q9      6.000        6.000   6iS.2,00          j,000Q,,  6,,,000QQfl,,
Tntel                               40_000       6_500        7_000         8,2        8_2          8_2            9,625       10,2%25      10,225  1L,22 j_25dk,Qa        ,       0_600       7J,600        7.600        7,800        8.900   6,,000122           6_000
nELSnalIIO                                               317       2,031        7,609        2 ,30 5     3,490        4,540        6,096        3,616        6,013        8,343        6,696        9,940      10.361        00,746       11,051       10,060       12,342        13,342
C.notll-                                                  -       2,348       4,957       70,332       00,812       05,352       21,446      27,062        33,075      59,418       46,104       56,D44       66,405       77,151       88,202       99,262      111,'604 
0.  Fern Model noe  Sole
LOURCES OF HINDS
LI                                             20~~~2
.Lad   3oebs  La2000                                                                           .            -            -                                      ---                                                              --o                                      
War  Denlpon  Loa-                                  1580                           -            --                                     -          -----------
lob-Intel                         ~~~~~~35,0800      -            -            -           -            -            -           ---                                                                                                        
eN.  Fer  R-nenots                                   5,693        8,725        9,599      10,799       11,934       12,979        14,092      14,961       15,403        15,028      16,249       16,932      17,367       07,768        18,198      18,504        18,878        18,878
L-es   Water Cberg            5/                     150          195 0        050          240          240         240            240        240          240           240         240          240          240          240          248          240          240           240
Coot of *0-d Labor-                            -          495          535         575          605          660           705         750          790           830         870         910           9 59         990       1,000        1,070        1,110          1,110
lo--et-                                        -           95         030          168          190          199           190         190          1908          180         190          190          190          190          190          198          190           090
Ola-ll1no--J                                 150          300          300         300          300          308            300        380          300           300         300          300          300          300          3008         300          300           300
Total Fe-rn O..en.                       5 393       7.685        8.474        9,24        10_9_____1_67                           3,8        1388          14,268      14,649       15,292       1 5,679      16,848       16 430       16 748       17,038        17___038_
Tetel Ponds                         40_393         7,8          8,7         9.524       10,589      1a1_58,        12,657      13.481   ,3,&&3            14.268      14,649   ,,15,,,292   ,15,679          1604         06,430       16,740       17,038i,    12_038
TSE OF FUNDS0
Poetbeso  of Land                                   20,000             -            -           -            -            --                        ---                                    --------
War           --eep,n  fEp-nee         /            15,080             -            -           -            -            --                        ---                                                                                                        
Debt On-i-e   Land P-nn1s  Ler-                                        -         500          900        0,000        0,000         1,8000     1,600        1,600         8,600       1,600        1,600        1,600        1,600        1,608        2,900--
Fern  1eeomn    no                                ,500        1,500       2,625        2,623        2,825         2,625       2,625        2,625         2 ,62 5    2,605        2,625             -            -            -            ---
PFnily Alirna.co                                  ..& 2            ,000        5,000      5,000         5,000         5,800         5.000   _J1,222,,       6.000         6,000    6,0009    ,,000~.22,         6.000      6,000fl,,      6.000      6,000Q96,000                 6.000
Tntel                              40,080      6_500          7,0008      8            845 625,     82            8,625    10_225        10_225         10,JLZ,5   1,225Z1,  1J ,225          7.600        3,600        7.600        8,900        6.000         6.008
CASH -POSITION
A-noa                                                  393       1,189        1,474        1,099        1,964        2,062         4,032      3,256         3,658        4,043       4,424        5,067        8,079        8,448         8,830       7,840       11,038         110308
Ceosatelo                                                -       1,578        3,052        4,151        6,115        9,078        03,110     16,366       20,024        24,067      28,491       55,598       41,633       50,895       58,912       66,705       77,7 93             -
B- atd on snep-ted ..rpping pattern, yIeld  peasntion   an...d  teho  dat  s-soised In Tablo 1.
TI  An 00       ..Ioa  Inere   nootsta-dtngernon     fer   f lan  n  10 y-ar,  in-lodin8  2 p--era
4/  .ras   farm  -e-no   t-  tot of:   i) Ce-tilie-r; lit) e-del sod (iii) plsse prote-ie..   hitb  inn--on   from  Os 7,137 in Fears. 0 and I to Os 4,946 ia y-a  10 -iatyo don to proje-d increas   On f-etiltieeeaa
boand on Fern pei-  e  -7o11-  (in Os pee kg plant  Norne)                     = 00 4.001  P205   Ko361ad120   Re11 2,70.
5/  Fiftee   p-roet of  -ai-d annel labor i.pot i t  yea  1, inor-ielg to 25, Co pea  16 ad                        Dtap --o toot thor-fWo  at --eeliatod rote of Rn 5.00 pee na-day of 6  -krbg hoot  esole
6/  An.o.. Initoree   of IO, on pr-do-tto- crdles for peiods of 6 nootb   i-co-ing fro   Os 1,800 in Fea  0 to no 3,600 in Yoar 4 and kop    - -ontat tbho-o  t-r
/In-lodes  -onigency for anfoe- -o    -h -npe-en   sno  on n-t-.e.set sonoe, edd~tti-nb-tt fan tr contro  of plan  poe  opido-io  and onhe-o
8/  Gnes  ane  enens len  on t e: 71  fert0ioro~(ii)  -onda; and (iii) plant p-ote nin  nhonh i-ctea.on  f-n  On 1,986 In Foot 0 and I en Ro 5,000 in yea  12 mtoly doe  to pr-jr-d
tocese  o    oeieeras 1baedonfern prices as fol11-  (in Rs pee 6g plane  -otri-nt:   NoR 4.00; P205 - On 5.601  and 910=  t2,0
9/  E lset.t oboot 750625,



ANNEX 16
Page 1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic.Analysis
Prices
1.        All inputs and outputs were evaluated at projected 1980 market
prices expressed in 1974 constant prices. For the major internationally
traded commodities, these prices correspond to the Bank's world market
price projections. Details are given in Annex 14.
Farm Labor
2.        There are at present about 40,000 farm families in the project
area, including about 5,000 families of landless laborers. Assuming that
each family supplies an average of 2.5 full-time farm workers for 20 days
per month or 240 days per year per worker, the total farm labor supply at
present is about 24 million man-days per year or 2 million man-days per
month. With 2% annual growth of farm population, the available labor supply
at project full development in year 21 would be 36 million man-days per year
or 3 million man-days per month.
3.        Estimates of annual labor requirements per ha for various crops
at present and in future with and without the project are given in Table 1.
Total labor requirements by month are shown in Table 2. These figures show
that there are considerable seasonal fluctuations. Since most of the labor
would be unpaid family labor, labor mobility is restricted and the market
wage for unskilled labor is sometimes fixed by custom rather than market
forces, the market wage does not fully reflect the opportunity cost of farm
labor to the economy. The opportunity cost of shadow wage was therefore
estimated on a monthly basis using available information on labor supply
and demand.
4.        It is postulated that the marginal opportunity cost of farm labor
in the project area can be approximated by an S-shaped curve (Figure 1).
The marginal opportunity cost is positive at all levels of labor demand
and increases as more labor is employed in farm work. The increase is slow
initially, reflecting the scarcity of alternative productive employment
but increases more rapidly as the labor supply becomes fully used. At the
employment level corresponding to full employment in the project area, the
marginal opportunity cost is assumed equal to the present market wage rate
of Rs 5 per man-day. In the future with the project abou4 2.5 million man-
days of labor per month would have to be imported into the project area for
cotton picking in October and November (say 100,000 laborers at 25 days
per month). Because of the need to import so much seasonal labor,.it was



ANNEX 16
Page 2
assumed that the opportunity cost (and market wage) might be as high as
Rs 8 per man-day, indicating that at that wage sufficient seasonal labor
would be attracted for the project area to pick cotton.
5.        It is reasonable to approximate the S-shaped curve by three
straight line segments. Three points based on information from the proj-
ect area determine its position. Point A indicates the minimum opportunity
cost of farm labor which is estimated to be Rs 2 per man-day, equal to Rs 1
as the economic value of alternative employment (house repairs, odd jobs,
etc.) plus Rs 1 to supply the additional nutritional requirements of more
strenuous farm work with the project. Point B indicates that at full employ-
ment of 3 million man-days per month in the project area (para 2), the oppor-
tunity cost would equal the market wage of Rs 5 per man-day. The horizontal
segment to the right of point C indicates that at a wage of Rs 8 per man-day,
large numbers of farm laborers would be attracted to the project area from
outside for cotton picking in October and November.
6.        The monthly marginal opportunity cost may be read directly from
the curve at the appropriate level of labor demand. The total economic cost
of labor is then the area under the curve up to that level of employment.
Comiputed this way, the economic cost of labor would be Rs 104.4 million with
the project at full development and Rs 63.4 million without the project, or
an incremental cost of Rs 41 million. This would be equivalent to pricing
the incremental employment of 7.4 million man-days per year at a shadow wage
of Rs 5.5 per man-day, or 10% above the full employment market wage for hired
labor in the project area. Most of the incremental economic cost of labor
is due to cotton picking in the peak months of October and November and the
incremental economic wage higher than the full employment market wage indi-
cates that moving the large required amounts of seasonal labor to the project
area would have a high economic as well as financial cost.
Projec Cost
7.        Capital costs amounting to Rs 750.4 million are included in the
economic analysis to represent the cost of irrigation, land development,
roads, village water supply, and afforestation works (Annex 4), together
witlh phvsical but not price contingencies. Sunk costs were not included.
Project facilities are assumed to have a salvage value of 33% of their
original cost (at constant 1974 prices) at the end of the 25-year evaluation
period. Operation and maintenance costs include these for irrigation, drain-
age, project roads and extension services (Annex 4, Table 5). Farm labor
costs are as computed in para 6. The cost of fertilizer to be supplied
under the project has been included as part of farm production costs.
Projec~ct Benefits
8.        Project benefits equal the incremental net value of production
without accounting for the operation and maintenance of project facilities
or for labor costs (Annex 13, Table 1, 2 and 3). The phasing of project
benefits is made in accordance with Annex 13.



ANNEX 16
Page 3
Lconomic Ratc of Return
9.        Using the foregoing assumptions, the economic rate of return
for the project is about 25%, (Table 3).
Sensitivity Analysis
10.       Several of the basic assumptions made in the economic analysis
have been varied in order to examine their impact on the rates of return.
The effects of the various assumptions on the rates of return are as follows:
Assumption                  Rate of Return
(a)  Operating and maintenance cost overrun of 25%             24
(b)  Benefits decreased by 25%                                 18
(c) Shadow wage rate of zero for all incremental
farm labor                                                28






ANNEX 16
Figure 1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Opportunity Cost Curve for Farm Labor
8
7 ~     ~           ~ ~ 7i
6~~~~~~~~~
6 __ __ __/
Ca
5~~~~~~~~
$4. 
0
U)
s-4
C)
-.4
Farm Labor Demand (Million Man-Days/Month)






ANNEX 16
Tabl =*
INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COXHAND AREA IEVEIIDPENT PROJECT
EBtimated Labor Requir_ants
(man-dayu/ha)I/
"With" Project
Present        "Without"           Full
Season and Crop              Situation2/      Project3/      DevelopIentl4/
KHARIF
Sugarcane5/                  242             278              311
Cotton                       128             160              192
Millet                        88             101              114
Pul.es                        48              55               62
Fodder (Jowar)                83              95              108
Groimdnut                     88             101              114
Paddy                        115             132              150
RA.BI
Sugaroanes,/                  - 
Wheat                         90             103              117
Mustard                       60               69              78
Gram                          46              53               60
Fodder (Bersemn)             150             172              195
Potatoes                      92             106              120
1/ A man-day of 8 working hours has been assumed.
7/ Based on present data obtained during appraisal0
3/ It has been assumed that these labor requirements would be needed after
about 12 years, since some on-farm development (mainly land shaping) and
increased use of current inputs would take place even "without" the proposed
project, resulting in increased cropping intensity and output which in turn
would need increased labor input.
4/ Figures reflect estimated labor requirements in year 16 after the year of
completion of proposed project construction and on-farm development.
5/ It has been assumed that sugarcane would have an average growing period of
12 months. About 15% of the total labor requirement would be needed in
kharif and 85% in rabi when cane is harvested.



INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Cost of Farm Labor at Full Project Development
January   February   March       April       May        June       July      August   September  October  November   December   Total
Labor Requirement
(Million man-days)
Future With Project            0.9        1.2        3.5        3.5        3.5        2.3        0.6        0.9        1.5        5.3         5.5        0.6        29.2
Future Without Project         0.7        0.9        2.6        2.6        2.6        1.7        0.4        0.7        1.1        3.9         4.1        0.4        21.8
Marginal Opportunity Cost
(Rs/man-days)
Future With Project            2.5        2.6        6.0        4.2        6.0        3.6        2.3        2.5        2.8        8.0         8.0        2.3
Future Without Project         2.4        2.5        4.2        4.2        4.2        3.9        2.2        2.4         2.6       6.8         7.2        2.2
Economic Cost of Labor
(Rs Million)
Future With Project            2.0        2.8       11.8       11.8       11.8        6.0         1.3       2.0        3.6       25.2        26,.8       1.3       104.4
Future Without Project          1.5       2.0        7.2        7.2        7.2        4.2        0.8         1.5        2.5       14.3       15.7        0.8        63.4
Incremental Economic Cost of Labor
(Rs Million)
Future With Project minus
Future Without Project         0.5        0.8        4.6        4.6        4.6         1.8       0.5         0.5        1.1       10.9       11.1        0.5        41.0
H>
- m
SM 
o -



ANNEX 16
Table 3
RAJ.AST9',IAN CANIAL UMMAND AREA UEVELOP14EN 1ROJBCT
Econcmiio Costs and Benefits
(Rs Millions)
Farmi
Year          Capital   0 & M   Labor    Total                Benefita/
1            h2.3      10.4      0       92.7                   0
2            !15.6      8.9      2.9    127.4                  2553
3           t 6061     11.0      7.0    184.1                  59.9
4             t.D* i   12.0    i -'    190.3                  106e3
5            134.1     13.2    17so 164.9                     151.8
6             83       14.2   2' 2      123.1                 194.0
7                               2         39.6                216,3
8                               27.,i    41.7                 236.0
9                               29.1     43.3                 249.3
W1                              29.9     4411                 255,4
11                              2955     43.7                 253.7
12                       1      29.1     43.3                 247.6
13                              30,8     45.0                 262.9
14l                             32.8     47.0                 278.8
1 n                             34.4     48.6                 295.0
1 o36f,5                                 50.7                 310.0
17                              37'7    51.9                  323.4
1 19                     }      39.4     53.6                 3343
19                             LW.2      54.4                 34t2.6
2 10                            ho.6     54.8                 347.9
2 1 - 25'              II4      41.0     55.2                 350.o
Economic Rate oiS Return   25%
1,  TIncemcft:i. net value of production, without accounting for
labor cost,.






INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
ITEM                   ~~~~~~~PFRE-                                        2TOTA L
ITEM                           PROJECT                1974                       1975                       1976                       1977                        1978                        1979
1. Land Development
('000 ha)                                         6                   19                         19                         22                         21                          _                                               87
Surceys & Planning
Land Shaping by                                                          6                          8                         8                           5                                               32
Project Authority
Land Shaping by                              6                           6                          5                         5                           4                                               26
Farmers
Recamation by                                2                           3                          4                         4                           4                                               17
Project AuthoritY
Recameatio by                                2                           3                          4                         4                           4                                               17
Watercourse Lining                          30                          40                         50                         50                         30                                               200
On-Farm Field
Channets Improve-                           30                          40                         50                        50                           30                                              200
ment
2, Lining of Branch, D,stributary
& Minor CanPlsn(km)                                  200                 150                         150                        150                       150                         150                                              950
Execution                                    74                         109                        183                       183                         183                         183                  915
3. Forestrvy & Pasture Develop-
ment ('000 ha)
Plantatio,,s1                                                            2                          2                          2                           1                                                8
Pastute Development                           5                          7                                                                                 5                                               35
4. Roads (km)
Major Market &I                               9                         36                          33                         34                         34                          34                  180
District Roads
Village Roads                                                                  _                    62                         63                         63                          63                  251
5. Village Water SupPlies
V9lages Supphed                               8                         12                         20                          20                          20                          20                  100
Area Irrigated at 130% Cropping                                              30                         70                         120                        170                         200
Intensity                      Com-ulativn '000 ha                                               ...
Percentage of Agricultural                                                   50%                        75%                        100%                       100%                       100%                        100%
Support Services Operative                                                   50%_75%_100%_100%_100%                                                                                                 _100%
Percentage of Operation &                                                    15%                         35%                        60%                        85%                        100k                       100%
Maintenance Services Operatioe
World Bank - 8638(R)






INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart - State Level
MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE
Functions:                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~           ~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~Ground Water  AddB;onsl Agrkultural
AgricultureDairyDeyelopment Production                                                                                                                            Secretary D
Cooperstimalusb y                                                                                                                        Special Schemes                        for Command Areas
Animal Husbandry                                                                                                                         Drought Prone Area
PanSheepytWoo                                                                                                                                      Projects
Command Areas
Special Secretary,                       Special Secretary.                                                                                                                                                                               DeputY Secretary,
Agric.lture,Animal                       Pacaas&Dpt  ertr.                                                                 Deputy Secretary.,                          Deputy SecretaryDeuySertryMrughtlPlroneay
Husbandry. Sheep &                       En-Officio Director                                    Special Shemesy Development                                          CAD                                       Ground Water               Area Projects
Wool, Cooperatives                       of Panchayats
D    eputy Secretary.                                                                                                                                                Area Development           Area Development             Chief Engineer,
Cooperatives,              Deputy Secretary,                                                                                             Director,                   Commissioner,               Commissioner,                Ground Water
Aeimal Husbandry,          Atriculture                                                                                                    Dairy DeveloPment          RastnCnl                IChm ;|I Delo et
-cr-ary~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rjata Cnl                                                                                    Chambal                       Development
Sheep & Wool                                                                                                                                                                a          l
See Chart 8640
Director                    Director
|    Dlrector   t  f    ~~Aninna I                   Sheep &                     Registrar of
Atriculture      l  l    Husbandry                      Wool                      Cooperatives
Department       l  l      Department                   Department
CAD & WU: Command Area Development and Water Utilization
World Bank - 8599(R)






INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart - Command Area Authority
Other Ministries    |Itrinisterial
adDprents  -   -                         -                   - ---              Minister of Agriculture                                                                                 Government of India
See Chart 8599
Ariculture             Cmmand Area Development             RIntadr-State                                                              ArieuitureI
artment at                  & Water Utilisation Dept.       Dv Cp                             Board              Indus Water          C            (aR
Ste LevelSreare  CAD & WU                                        o
c
,ml                       ,                                                                                                                .             
01                                                            
o j                                                                                             Day er. Commission r
i                       I_I_I_I
so                                   (0  ______                  Co~~~~~~0mmand Area Authiority  CAA)
i        I                                                                                              Corcial Banks           - -  - -   - -- -1
I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Joint Director                          n Registrar             R                                 E        nue Departmentgl -1-     Chief Enginer
I  I                  ~~~~~~~of Agriculture             oCopet & Colonisatlo1          ReeuLeprmn                    nd Land DvlpetRCP construction
i        I {            |                       ,                                              l                                          See Chart 8639
.f                          I t. 
Roads                                            Project Research        Project Extension                                                Assistant Chief Engineer
Forestry                                             Director                 DirectorD
Town Planning
Water Supply
Education                                                                 See Reference 3
Health                              Panchayats                                               - _                                                        | Operation & Maintenanne
Animal Husbandry                                                                                                                                                    Circles
Social Welfare
Groundwater Development
PowerI
Command                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Three Canal Lining
-  -  -   CoordinationLorLnDelCics
-  - -    Flow of Funds                         |
L~~W
World Bank~ 8640 j2R)






INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART:
IRRIGATION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT CIRCLES
FORESTRY AND PASTURE DEVELOPMENT CIRCLE
Executive Engineer                                                     Chief Engineer                                       Ch et Engineer
Coordinating Unit                                                      I rrigation)                                          Ch* _E_g_n_e_
ISupervising standards of                                              and Larid Devlpmt.                                    RCP Construction
Design andi Construction)
2 Operationi &                                    Assistant
Assistant                               K.,~~~~~~Minteniance                               Chief Engineer
s                   -                     }  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Chief Engineer  -i cle                                                                                  L sitr in
Land Development (LD |                                                                                   Canal Linin)g (C
| a;;  -           Land                Land                 Larnd                                              Canal Lining       Canal Lining        Canal Lning
Development         Development         Dvelopment           Development                                             Circle              CirCe               Circle
Circle                Crd                 C>e                  Circle                                             _                     Circle_                     _
On                 Four Land                 Four Land                 Four Land                 Four Land                                    Four Canal                Four Canal               Four Canal                   One
Mchnil               Development               Development                Development              Development                                    L i ng                    Lining                   Liig |                   Mechan ical
visi         ~~Divisions                Divisions                  Divisions                Divisions                                    Divisons                  Divisions                 Divisions'.
[e 1~~~~~M
FORESTRY AND PASTURE DEVELOPMENT CIRCLES
|Commnand Area
|Authority
Coordination
|  FORESTRY CIRCLE 
| Conservator of       
urser es           ~Cana[side                Village Firewood                  Roadside               I     a     7     l4 Deputy Conservators
Plantation                  Plantations                  Plantations                                                14 Forest Ranqers
s  L                                                                       ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14 NPUYiy1FoeSt Rangers
54 Foresters
Wand Bank - 8639 (2Ri






INDIA
RAJASTHAN CANAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Activity Diagram
ROAD DEPARTMENT                                      DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF ROAD NETVVORK
D
<      FORESTRY DEPARTMENT                                    AFFORESTATION AND DUNE STABILISATION
Gz
00~
D      PUBLIC HEALTH ENGINEERING DEPT.                 |DESIGN AND CONSTRUCT(ON OF VILLAGE WATER SUPPLIES| 
'Z 8                                                   |        LINING OF IRRIGATION CANALS                     IRRIGATION SUPPLY
<'     IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT
f RRIGATION CIRCLES
IPLANNING IRRIGATION SUPPLY, REGULAR OPERATION
2                                           r         1       &MAINTENANCEOF IRRIGATION SYSTEM
-I
IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT                                                  PLANNING OF LAND SHAPING,                               C                       HNIO
LRRIGAND N DVELOPAMENTDIVIS                                            WATERCOURSES, RECLAMA-
z   LAND DEVELOPMENT O/VISIONS           j--0l -I                            TION AND FIELD DRAINS 
- X   REVENUE DEPARTMENT                   |                         E                                                                                                                    0
2 ~~~~~~~~~~FRES REEVEo
< Z   COLONISATION DEPARTMENT                             COPIES  FARM             REPRION DOF 
F                                                                                                                                       0
RAJASTHAN LAND                                              zCASFIG|LOAN                                                    _|CNTR                           LCINCM TO  
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION IRLDCI       |                                                                 PROCESSING                ADVANCES               CERTIFICATES
COMMERCIAL BANKS
L0:                                                                                                                                                               CR EDITS    r
E AGRICULTURE REFINANCE CORPORATION    I                                               RIN
SUSIDIES FOR DIS
GOI                                  l                                                     L ADVANTAGED FARMERS
COOPERATIVES|E.
I-u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
FARM INPUT SUPPLIERS                            FAj  INU Ci. INTON---                            -
O      EXTENSION SERVICE                    L _  -       AGRICULTURE EXTENSION i
AGRICULTURE RESEARCH                              AGRILTURE RESARC
World Baok-B641






rrCr.'..~~..5...  N~rm0-.r2:J-o-              '~'                     to '~  nesT.-  coIA,NAI                                                                    --
C -  N    '40 m40,rsr ,      ron. 0 Orr.P001 AN                                                                                                                " 
KIOMFT6RS  -'                        _  __                       '0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"   
DO                4        0        n       tnMAt0J  rAWRS 17'
N    INDIAE                                                              A
EMN12M   C    b. I C. -, d-.                                                                                                                                               DhHDNCA-,  
N  J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Raasha  Canal commandr Area&
Deeop et   rjetALAt o/s                                                                                                                                    A
PA.nnn  -01CCaea'
FRe d-   otara 
L2CAnroal 1,     Co mndAea
Ci tier anigotad oreoD                                                                                                                                                                         -2-1200~~~~BH  J
oiTing majrARE,                                                                                                                                                                                                          -,
Other mooscanclr                                                                                                                                                                                         550
stCnal under-ieros o 
W-i    -.r   b-00'
r  -~~~ Lsarns/ rarersoire                                                                                                                                                    -'~~~~~~~~G
Rodwoys                                                                                                                                            trs-4'>                                     2-ti~~~~~~~~~Ch
TAI_ OoseArnaaeAN                                                                                                                                        All.
MAI CANAL - 444 K-M ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ J                         Q    '045
0' 2-  Atrroa roinfali a  Stenene                                                                               I                                                             '0~~~~
    Noriooa[ cop rot  --2-    ,K    ft    OAF-IC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
*  Store capttals  I  -               'jR 0510  ESICAT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PR A                                                                                S 
G- U  J         4~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                    S Toh






_________________________________________                                                                                                                                             1880   10884~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BR   188
I0   N                          5'  Iag Asa
r L,                           F2-TA                                                       ia""    Cu         Th 32n'ne                                                                                            tHonumong arh                        I n7
PAK`7                                                                       A 1 >  fIFKT                                                                                                                                                              .\
r-A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IfrEilA  5AO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P       
/~~~~~~~~~~~ Acrupoorh,,r -5.                                             1>'  )J                                                                                                                  Ao;< 'B{2f;,t,a
1.z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -cd P,..-,.'J.,h/'<
A.A-
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,ii <'' k a i f:U 0OH0AA /
/  87WTIO   X  \                  Wi:                                                                                                             ci '   /auilumig        (, tM,   gLInEt.nul~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'c'  HAR
A- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.
INDIA                                                          oArpC-
//                                      >                                         '~,/ Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project                       FF    FOSsU,7o , 
/                                                                                                                                                                                                              'I  Xo  B. 
/                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT AREA                                                                           N
'                                                                                           EI2"9Llne    OTl  outsideI proAc                              JAHRAAKI   -(             p uo                    /  <
F/LProieof cray   rAccooces R-'tlDnA                                                                                    U sAr
Chaffargort ~        ~=    nteAArn :               cCon OI(L iced)r                                   _  RI BhFCndt                      ;             RhL   /
7MLiAA   niria coSl Outi      0 =rcc                       DHARA  unde                    Oc-Cucio    0  S S  '  L
KILdOMEER floo rersininglrFllc                         =.-SOrGnsoins AREadar N                  ISAc
----R00d program
0   To,-                                                             R       t ~o sho,n
--.-State b-udory                                                     CEoiscigrrojrrcor-ls                          h CKc-udC~
---. t-In  0-1.os b-ardary                                       .....poOhdrC-nl              
"'i-
0  1  ?O    15        10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ndoca                             ~1
fT  00                     -  Co~~~~~DmA -d,-tf.,         2   L        7
A    10    S1   20    20    000Twn                                                                       ca
rrArnuc.r,ou,,rnic.    IsAFcti-arI b-odary           KILOMETERS






Go
0                                                     0
-     -                                       0.......
-   ;_ a'.....
C..-..  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  E~.....                                                           .......
CL N,~~
.2   ~~~~-         -.
.-   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~   a O   0~~~.                                     . .   . . . .. . .
a    a~~~~~~ 
0    i         0   0      a 
E   *  o   0  a,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
a'  a  -   "   >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..... 
2-.-.-                    >   a  -a.   .......... 
U0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . . .
0  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ...... .......... 
Uz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ..........
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........... ......     ......
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........ .......... 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ........
.............~a                                                                      ....  ....i
--------                                                               2M . J~~~~3' 
I       U
0Q
&\ 



