CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 502 IN
ARC Agreement
(Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
DATED JULY 31, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 502 IN
ARC Agreement
(Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
DATED JULY 31, 1974


﻿ARC AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1974, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION (hereinafter called ARC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty three million dollars
($83,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition inter alia that ARC agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between the State of
Rajasthan, the said State has agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect
of the carrying out of the Project;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and ARC, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to ARC on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ARC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ARC shall take all steps as ,hall be necessary on its part to
carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative
and financial practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) ARC shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with.
the Borrower on terms and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement) satisfactory to the Association.
ARC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ARC shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(b) ARC shall, in sufficient time before the Effective Date, invite to
participate in the Project the Banks listed in the Second Schedule to the Reserve
Bank of India Act, 1934, and LDB on terms and conditions (including inter alia
those set forth in paragraph I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement) satisfactory to
the Association.
(c)   ARC shall enter into agreements with each bank responding to ARC's
invitation under paragraph (b) of this Section on terms and conditions (including
inter alia those set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule I to this Agreement)
satisfactory to the Association.
(d)   ARC shall: (i) require LDB and Participating Banks to maintain
separate accounts for Project lending and (ii) ensure that the annual audited
accounts of such Banks and LDB are submitted to the Association within four
months of the end of their fiscal year together with a statement of Project lending
for such Banks, certified by ARC.
Section 2.03. The lending terms and conditions for carrying out the Project
shall be as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower, ARC and the
Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, ARC shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿5
Section 2.05. ARC: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of Part E of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; and (ii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.06. (a) ARC shall, at the request of the Association:
(i)         exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(ii)        furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request in respect of the Project.
(b)   ARC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ARC of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE Ill
Management and Operations of ARC
Section 3.01. ARC shall: (a) at all times manage its affairs, maintain its
financial position, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in
accordance with sound business and financial practices and under the supervision
of experienced and competent management assisted by experienced and competent
staff in adequate number; and (b) take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain
and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful
in the conduct of its business or in the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ARC shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.


﻿6
Section 4.02. ARC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of ARC and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. If the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate pursuant to Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions, the Association shall promptly notify ARC of this event and,
upon the giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties
hereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of ARC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date thirty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify ARC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.


﻿7
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For ARC:
Managing Director
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Shri Niketan
F Block
Shiv Sagar Estate
Dr. Annie Besant Road
Worli, Bombay, 18 W.B.
India
Cable address:
AGREFINANS
Bombay


﻿8
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of ARC may be taken or executed by its managing director or such other person
or persons as ARC shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. ARC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of ARC, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by ARC pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Mervyn L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
By /s / T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative


﻿9
SCHEDULE I
Principal Lending Terms and Conditions
The following lending terms and conditions shall be used in implementing
the Project and shall not be altered without prior agreement of the Association:
1.   Lending terms from ARC to Participating Banks:
(a)   Interest rate to be not less than 7% per annum;
(b)   Repayments to be in installments set to coincide with expected
collections of Land Development Loans refinanced; and
(c)   Refinancing to be by way of purchase of debentures or by loans at
the rate of not less than 80% of individual loans.
2.    Participating Banks and LDB to Project farmers:
(a)   Interest rate to be not less than 9-1/2% per annum;
(b)   A  once-and-for-all evaluation fee of 1/2% of the cost of Project
investments may be charged;
(c)   Farmers' contributions to be nil;
(d)   Repayment periods not to exceed 15 years including a grace period
of not more than two years; and
(e)   Security to be in accordance with arrangements between ARC, LDB
and the Participating Banks; valuation of land for security on land
development loans to be based on the estimated value of land after
development resulting from the loan.


