CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 502 IN
Project Agreement
(Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project)
BETWEEN
THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 31, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 502 IN
Project Agreement
(Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project)
BETWEEN
THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 31, 1974


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1974, between THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN
acting by its Governor (hereinafter called Rajasthan) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) by a development credit agreement of even date herewith
between India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association (hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement), the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eighty-three million dollars ($83,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition inter alia that Rajasthan agrees to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as hereinafter set forth;
(B)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association, and
the Agricultural Refinance Corporation, Agricultural Refinance Corporation has
agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project;
and
WHEREAS Rajasthan, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
Section 2.01. (a) Rajasthan shall carry out the Project and shall cause RLDC
to take all steps as shall be necessary on its part to carry out Part A thereof


﻿4
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and agricultural practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, Rajasthan shall furnish to the Association, not later than
February 1 in each year, a detailed Project implementation schedule for the next
fiscal year, acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.02. Rajasthan shall enable the Association's representatives to
inspect the Project and any ielevant records and documents; and shall furnish or
cause to be furnished to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request, concerning the Project, the services and the operations
and financial condition with respect to the Project of the agency or agencies
responsible for the carrying out of the Project or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. Rajasthan and the Association shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, Rajasthan and
the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the Project, and other matters relating
to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 2.04. Rajasthan and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. Rajasthan shall take all action which shall be necessary on
its part to enable ARC to perform its obligations under the ARC Agreement and
shall not take or permit any of its agencies to take any action which would prevent
or interfere with the performance of any such obligations of ARC or of Participating
Banks associated therewith.
Section 2.06. (a) Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RLDC to, insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable to replace
or repair such goods.


﻿5
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Rajasthan shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods, the carrying out of works or services (other than consultants'
services) for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) Rajasthan shall maintain and repair, or cause to be
maintained and repaired, all roads, canals, water supplies, facilities, equipment and
materials included in the Project, in accordance with sound engineering and
agricultural practices, and shall furnish promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
equipment, labor and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Rajastan shall furnish to the Association not later than February 15
in each year, estimates of the costs of operation and maintenance of the Project
works referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for the next fiscal year, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, for the Association's comments.
Section 2.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Rajasthan shall:
(a)   not later than June 30, 1976, levy and collect irrigation charges from
farmers in the Project Area in amounts sufficient to cover the annual cost of
operating and maintaining the irrigation system in the said area;
(b)   establish a committee not later than December 31, 1977, and cause
such committee to recommend, not later than December 31, 1978, arrangements
for the recovery of Project costs to the extent practicable, over a period of not
more than 50 years, which shall take into account, inter alia, the repayment capacity
of, and reasonable incentives to, farmers in the Project Area; Rajasthan shall,
promptly after receiving the said committee's recommendations, furnish such
recommendations to the Association; Rajasthan shall, after consideration of the
recommendations of the said committee, make arrangements for the recovery of
such costs; and
(c)   adjust the charges referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
periodically to ensure that total yearly receipts from such charges equal the
projected yearly operating and maintenance costs of the said irrigation system.
Section 2.10. Rajasthan shall (i) maintain in CAA consolidated records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and


﻿6
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in the Project, and to examine the goods financed out of such
proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made
available to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.11. Rajasthan shall designate: (i) a Circle to design and construct
the afforestation works under Part C of the Project; (ii) a Circle to design and
construct the roads under Part D of the Project; and (iii) a Circle to design and
construct the water supply works under Part E of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of RLDC
Section 3.01. Rajasthan shall cause RLDC to: (i) at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, and carry on its operations, all in accordance
with sound business and financial practices and under the supervision of experienced
and competent management assisted by experienced and competent staff in
adequate number; and (ii) take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew
all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of their business or in the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.02. Rajasthan shall cause RLDC to take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. Rajasthan shall cause RLDC to maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices
their operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. Rajasthan shall cause RLDC to: (i) have an annual audit
satisfactory to the Association made of its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for


﻿7
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent and qualified auditors; (ii) furnish to the Association as
soon as available, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not later
than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of RLDC, and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Rajasthan shall in its CAA maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently   maintained sound accounting practices, the
operations and financial condition of CAA.
Section 4.04. Rajasthan shall: (i) have the accounts and financial statements
of CAA (statements of income and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied; (ii) furnish to
the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by the Accountant
General of Rajasthan, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of CAA, as the
Association shall reasonably reque A.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. If the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate pursuant to Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions, the Association shall promptly notify Rajasthan of this event
and, upon the giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the
parties hereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 5.02. This Agreement shall terminate and all obligations of Rajasthan
and the Association hereunder shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Project Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any partial cancellation or suspe nsion under the
Development Credit Agreement.


﻿8
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For Rajasthan:
Secretary to the Government
of Rajasthan
Command Area Development and Water
Utilization Department
Jaipur, Rajasthan
India
Cable address:
CHIEFSEC
Jaipur
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of Rajasthan may be taken or executed by the Secretary to the Government of
Rajasthan or such other person or persons as Rajasthan shall designate in writing.


﻿9
Section 6.03. Rajasthan shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of Rajasthan, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by Rajasthan pursuant to any of'
the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN
By /s/ T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Mervyn L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Contracts for equipment and vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more shall be let under procedures consistent with those set forth
in the ."Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    Contracts for equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000 shall be let on the basis of the ordinary procedures of
Rajasthan.
3.    Identical or similar goods shall be grouped together, whenever practicable,
for the purpose of procurement.
4.    Civil works shall be carried out either under contracts let under the
procedures of Rajasthan or through force.account, provided, however, that the
cost of civil works to be carried out through force account shall not exceed in
the aggregate 30% of all civil works carried out under the Project.
5.    Contracts for fertilizer shall be let under the following procedures:
(a)   the Borrower shall invite not less than three price quotations from
suppliers in member countries of the Bank and Switzerland;
(b)   the contract shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid is the lowest
evaluated bid; and
(c)   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, together with any
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any
such contract: (i) the details of the bids sought; (ii) the names of the firms invited
to submit bids; (iii) the summary of the bids submitted and, in the event the
lowest bid is not accepted, the analysis thereof and the reasons for choosing the
successful bidder; (iv) two conformed copies of the contract; and (v) a statement
from the Borrower that fertilizer in the quantity and of the types financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be made available to farmers in the Project
Area as set forth in Part I of the Project.


﻿11
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in India may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in India if the bidder
shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in India equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in India.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the


﻿13
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


