CREDIT NUMBER 969 WAF
Development Credit Agreement
(Project Preparation Credit)
between
BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 969 WAF
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     oCince      15          , 1980, between
BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEgNT (hereinafter called the
Borrower), a regional development bank established by and oper-
ating under an agreement entered into on November 14, 1973 by the
governments of the several states which are signatories thereto,
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applic-
able to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as so
modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Regional Company" means a joint stock corporation
incorporated under the laws of one of the Member States with,
as its shareholders:
(i) two or more states, of which at least one shall
be and remain from time to time a Member State;
if not all states are Member States, at least
one other state shall be contiguous to a Member
State and all other states not contiguous to
a Member State, if any, shall be contiguous to
the state contiguous to the Member State; or
(ii) two or more persons of different nationality, of
whom at least one shall have the nationality of a
Member State; if not all persons are nationals of
Member States, then at least one shall have the


﻿-2-
nationality of a state contiguous to a Member
State, and all other persons, if any, shall have
the nationality of states contiguous to the state
contiguous to the Member State; or
(iii) one or more states and one or more persons, pro-
vided that in such case among the shareholders at
least two nationalities, of which at least one
shall be that of a Member State, shall be repre-
sented; if not all nationalities so represented are
of Members States, then at least one other nation-
ality shall be of a state contiguous to a Member
State and all other nationalities shall be of
states contiguous to the state contiguous to a
Member State;
(b) "Regional Arrangement" means an agreement concluded
either directly or through their agencies and instrumentalities
between at least two states, of which at least one shall be and
remain from time to time a Member State - if not all states are
Member States, at least one other state shall be contiguous
to a Member State and all other states not contiguous to a Member
State, if any, shall be contiguous to the state contiguous to the
Member State - for the purpose of carrying out and coordinating
the implementation of a Regional Project;
(c) "Member States" means the member states of the Union
Mongtaire Ouest Africaine, insofar as they are members-share-
holders of the Borrower;
(d) "Regional Project" means a project meeting the criteria
for eligibility specified in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement
and to be carried out in at least two states of which at least one
shall be and remain from time to time a Member State:
(i) by a Regional Company; or
(ii) through a Regional Arrangement; or
(iii) by any suitable entity agreed upon from time
to time between the Borrower and the Association;
(e) "Regional Project Study" means feasibility and engineer-
ing studies including the preparation of bidding documents, the
cost of which is financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
carried out or to be carried out for the preparation and develop-
ment of a Regional Project;


﻿-3-
(f) "Beneficiary" means the Regional Company, the agency
or instrumentality designated in a Regional Arrangement, or the
entity referred to in Section 1.02 (d) (iii) of this Development
Credit Agreement carrying out the Regional Project Study; and
(g) "Statuts" means the Borrower's Articles of Agreement as
amended and modified from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to three million dollars ($3,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs
(b) and (c) hereof, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, to finance the reasonable cost of services required for the
Regional Project Study in respect of which the withdrawal is
requested.
(b) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made in
respect of a Regional Project Study unless the Borrower has
submitted to the Association for its approval, prior to making a
first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account in respect of
such Regional Project Study:
(i) evidence satisfactory to the Association that:
(A) the Regional Project contributes to the
integrated economic development of at least
two states of which at least one shall be a
Member State; and
(B) the Regional Project enters the scope of
activities of the Borrower and the Borrower
has the means to implement the Regional
Project; and
(ii) the date specified in Section 2.03 (a) of this
Development Credit Agreement.


﻿(c) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made in
respect of a Regional Project Study unless the Borrower has
submitted to the Association for its review and comments, prior to
making a first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account in
respect of such Regional Project Study:
(i) a summary description of the Regional Project, and
a description of the Regional Project Study includ-
ing its terms of reference, its estimated cost
(including a description of the foreign exchange
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit); and
(ii) the methods and procedures by which the Regional
Project Study will be carried out, including the
qualifications, terms of reference and terms and
conditions of employment of experts, specialists
and consultants.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association and the Borrower
shall otherwise agree:
(a) if by the date agreed upon for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Association:
(i) a loan shall have been granted by the Borrower
for the purpose of assisting in the financing of
the Regional Project for the preparation of which
the Regional Project Study was undertaken (or any
portion of such Regional Project) then the full
amount of the foreign currencies withdrawn for the
financing of such Regional Project Study and
outstanding shall be repaid to the Borrower, with
interest thereon (such interest being equal to or
more than 8% per annum), by means of a withdrawal
of the proceeds of such loan in accordance with the
provisions of the loan agreement, as soon as such
agreement shall have become effective;
(ii) no loan shall have been granted, or if the loan
agreement providing for such loan shall have been
terminated without becoming effective, the full
amount of the foreign currencies withdrawn for the


﻿-5-
financing of such Regional Project Study and
outstanding shall be charged to the Borrower's
resources and this amount shall be credited to the
separate account referred to in Section 2.03 (b);
and
(b) all amounts repaid to the Borrower pursuant to sub-para-
graph (a) (i) of this Section, whether principal or interest,
shall be credited by the Borrower to a separate account, the
amounts in such account to be made available exclusively for the
financing of other regional project studies.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Decem-
ber 1 and June 1 commencing June 1, 1990, and ending December 1,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
The Project - Management and Operations
of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to provide
the Borrower with resources in order to assist the Borrower in
developing to an advanced stage, through the carrying out of
feasibility and engineering studies, specific Regional Projects,
all in furtherance of the Borrower's corporate purposes.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel,
and in accordance with its Statuts and lending policies.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, any Regional Project Study
shall be agreed to on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by
written contract with the Beneficiary or through other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association, including the right to: (i) require
that the Regional Project Study be carried out with due diligence
and efficiency, and in accordance with appropriate technical,
financial and managerial standards and adequate records be main-
tained; (ii) require that (A) the services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured at a reasonable
price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as
their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them and
(B) such services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of
the Regional Project Study; (iii) require that the Beneficiary
shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insur-
ance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consis-
tent with appropriate practice; (iv) obtain all such information
as the Association or the Borrower shall reasonably request
relating to the carrying out of the Regional Project Study by the
Beneficiary and to its administration, operations and financial
condition; and (v) suspend or terminate the right to the use of
the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by the Beneficiary to
perform its obligations under the agreement with the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Regional Project Study in such manner as to: (i) protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Association; (ii) comply
with its obligations under this Development Credit Agreement; and
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Regional Project.
Section 3.03. If and when deemed necessary by the Borrower
and the Association in order to assist the Borrower in supervising
the technical aspects of feasibility and engineering studies
included in Regional Project Studies, the Borrower shall employ
technical consultants whose qualifications, experience, terms of
reference and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion all such information as the Association shall reasonably


﻿-7-
request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit,
the Project, the Regional Projects, the Regional Project Studies
and the Beneficiaries.
(b) Without limitation to the provisions of Sections s.02
and 3.03 and of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower:
(i) shall furnish to the Association a copy of each
contract to be concluded with a Beneficiary
pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Development
Credit Agreement or with the consultants referred
to in Section 3.03 of this Development Credit
Agreement sufficiently in advance of signature
of such contracts so as to allow the Association a
reasonable time to review said contracts;
(ii) shall furnish to the Association for its comments,
each semester until twelve months following the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account, a report
on the progress of the execution of the Project and
of each Regional Project Study; and
(iii) shall monitor the studies carried out by the
experts, specialists and consultants mentioned in
Section 2.02 (c) (ii) of this Development Credit
Agreement and shall furnish the Association, at
regular intervals, status reports on such studies.
(c) Within twelve months following the last withdrawal from
the Credit Account, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project and of each Regional Project
Study, their cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from them, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of
their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations under agreements under which funds have been lent or
otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower for relending,
investment or management. The Borrower shall promptly inform
the Association of any action which would have the effect of
assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving any material provision
of any such agreement.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project and of each Regional Project
Study (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other infor-
mation concerning the accounts and financial statements of the
Borrower and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
(b) Without limitation to the provisions of sub-paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
quarterly, until six months after the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account, quarterly financial statements including without
limitation, information on loans or credits approved, amounts
committed and disbursements made, repayments and arrears in
repayment of loans or credits and the Borrower's resource posi-
tion.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association and the Borrower
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of such
debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsid-
iaries then incurred and outstanding would exceed the consolidated
capital and surplus of the Borrower and all its subsidiaries. For
the purpose of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower
or any subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred, including debt assumed or guaran-
teed by the Borrower or by a subsidiary.


﻿-9-
(b) Wherever reference is made in this Section to the
incurring of debt, such reference shall include any modification
of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be
incurred (i) under a loan contract or agreement on the date
and to the extent the loan is drawn down pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement and (ii) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent the guaranteed debt is
outstanding.
(c) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of the currency of the Member
States debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation shall be
made at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
foreign currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable in
the Member States for the purposes of servicing such debt.
(d) The term "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all
its subsidiaries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower
and all its subsidiaries excluding debt owed by the Borrower to
any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any
other subsidiary.
(e) The term "consolidated capital and surplus of the
Borrower and all its subsidiaries" means the aggregate of (i) the
total unimpaired paid-in capital, surplus and free reserves of the
Borrower and of all its subsidiaries after excluding therefrom
such amounts as shall represent equity interests of the Borrower
in any subsidiary, or of any such subsidiary in the Borrower or in
any other subsidiary, and (ii) such amount of any loan or credit
which the Association may determine to be included in the consoli-
dated capital and surplus of the Borrower.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall not make any repayment
in advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of
the Borrower which, in the judgment of the Association, would
materially affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial
obligations.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take such steps satis-
factory to the Association as shall be necessary to protect itself
against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of
exchange between the currencies used in its lending and borrowing
operations.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.06. The Association and the Borrower shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Borrower and its subsi-
diaries, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition
of the Borrower and its subsidiaries.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the records referred to in Section
4.01 of this Development Credit Agreement and any relevant docu-
ments.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purpose of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan or credit
to the Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more
shall, in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable
in advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan or credit shall
have become enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Statuts which,
in the opinion of the Association, materially and adversely
affects the financial condition or operations of the Borrower;
(c) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion on the part of the Borrower under any other loan or credit
agreement between the Association and the Borrower or under any
bond or similar instrument delivered pursuant to any such agree-
ment; and
(d) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial situation or
the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel or the
carrying out of the Project.


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b)
or paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date          w      , '80      is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date 10 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Pr6sident of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Banque Ouest Aifricaine de Developpement
B. P. 1172
Lome
Republique Togolaise


﻿- 12 -
Cable address:                       Telex:
BOAD                                5289 BOAD
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
By       ci           fX    Qt    jOt\JQ
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By    Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the alloca-
tion of amounts of the Credit to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Regional Project            2,900,000           85%
Studies
(2) Consultants'                  100,000           85%
services to
the Borrower
Total                3,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Member States on goods or ser-
vices, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or
in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement; and


﻿- 14 -
(b) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Member States on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above,
if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance all expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet such estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way re-
stricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
For the purposes of this Development Credit Agreement, the
provisions of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The words "to its members" in the first sentence of
Section 1.01 are deleted.
(2) Paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is deleted and replaced
by the following new paragraph:
"5. The term "Borrower" means the party to
the Development Credit AgreemenL to which the
Credit is granted."
(3) The words "in the currency of the Borrower" in Section
4.01 are deleted and replaced by the words "in the currency
of the Member States".
(4) The words "the Borrower" in Section 4.06 (b) are deleted
and replaced by the words "the Member States".
(5) Sub-paragraph (e) of Section 6.02 is deleted and re-
placed by the following new sub-paragraph:
"(e) Any one or more of the Member States: (i)
shall have been suspended from membership in or
ceased to be a member of the Association; or (ii)
shall have ceased to be a member of the Inter-
national Monetary Fund".
(6) Section 8.01 is deleted and replaced by the following
Section:
"Section 8.01. Taxes. (a) The principal of,
and other charges on, the Credit shall be paid
without deduction for, and free from, any taxes
levied by, or in the territories of, the Member
States.
(b) The Development Credit Agreement, and any
other agreement to which these General Conditions
shall be made applicable, shall be free from any
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Member
States on or in connection with the execution,
delivery or registration thereof."


﻿- 16 --
(7) Sub-paragraph (c) of Section 9.01 is deleted and re-
placed by the following sub-paragraph:
"(c) The Borrower shall take all action
necessary or useful to afford all reasonable
opportunity for accredited representatives of the
Association to visit any part of the territories of
the Member States for purposes related to the
Credit."
(8) Section 9.02 is deleted and replaced by the following
Section:
"Section  9.02.  Financial and Economic Data.
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Member States
as well as with respect to itself, its subdivisions
and any entity owned or controlled, or operating
for the account or benefit of the Borrower."
(9) The word "governmental" in sub-paragraph (a) of Section
12.01 is deleted and replaced by the word "corporate".


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  4        day of
198 .
FOR SECRETARY


