CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 502 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Rajasthan Canal Command Area
Development Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 31, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 502 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Rajasthan Canal Command Area
Development Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 31, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1974, between INDIA, acting by its President
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project d scribed in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the State of Rajasthan acting by its Governor (hereinafter called Rajasthan),
Rajasthan has agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying
out of the Project;
(C)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Agricultural Refinance Corporation, certain obligations in respect of the carrying
out of the Project have been undertaken by the Agricultural Refinance Corporation;
and
(D)  The Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon terms and conditions hereinafter set
forth;
NOW THEREFORE che parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)  in Section 2.01, the following paragraph is substituted for paragraph
5:
"5. The term Borrower means India, acting by its President,"


﻿4
(b)   sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (a) of Section 9.01 is deleted and the
following sub-paragraph (i) is substituted therefor:
"exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
progress of the Project, the benefits derived therefrom and the performance
of their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
performance by the parties to the ARC Agreement and to the Project
Agreement of their respective obligations under the said agreements."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Rajasthan" means the State of Rajasthan acting by its Governor, a
State of India, or any successor thereof.
(b)   "ARC"   means Agricultural Refinance Corporation, a statutory
corporation established and organized under the laws of the Borrower.
(c)   "ARC Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between
the Association and ARC, and all schedules thereto, as the same may be amended
from time to time.
(d)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between Rajasthan and the Association, as the same may be amended from time
to time.
(e)   "Participating Bank" means any bank listed in the Second Schedule
to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, which has entered into an agreement
with ARC in accordance with Section 2.02(c) of the ARC Agreement.
(f)   "LDB" means Rajasthan State Cooperative Land Development Bank,
Limited, a cooperative society established and organized under the laws of
Rajasthan.
(g)   "RLDC" means Rajasthan Land Development Corporation, a statutory
corporation to be established by law of Rajasthan.
(h)   "Category" means a category of the allocation of proceeds of the
Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿5
(i)   "CAA"    means Command      Area Authority, established   in  the
Government of Rajasthan.
(j)   "Project Area" means the command area of Stage I of the Rajasthan
Canal Project.
(k)   "Rs" means rupees in the currency of the Borrower.
(1)   "Circle" means an administrative subdivision in Rajasthan.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount   in  various  currencies  equivalent  to  eighty-tlree  million  dollars
($83,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
*        Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. (*) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts
for the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred
to in Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement.
(b)   When, with respect to any contract for goods described in paragraph
(a) above, the lowest evaluated bid falls under Group C (as defined in paragraph
B(2)(b) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement), the Borrower shall immediately
grant pennission to import the goods covered by the contract, and no reviews
of such permission to import shall be made by the Borrower or by any of its
agencies, and all foreign exchange required therefor shall be promptly made
available. When, with respect to any contract, the lowest evaluated bid falls under
Group A or under Group B (as defined in paragraph B(2)(b) of Schedule 1 to
the Project Agreement), the Borrower shall: (i) promptly upon receipt of the


﻿6
appropriate applications, issue, or cause to be issued, such import licenses as shall
be required to implement the contract; (ii) make available, or cause to be made
available, promptly as needed, all foreign exchange which shall be required therefor;
and (iii) with respect to locally produced materials which are subject to allocation,
make, or cause to be made, allocations of such materials promptly and in such
quantities as shall be required for such contract.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 1
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing
January 1, 1985 and ending July 1, 2024, each installment to and including the
installment payable on July 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half
per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause it to
be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, engineering, agricultural and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with ARC
on terms and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement) satisfactory to the Association for the purpose of lending to ARC
an amount equivalent to 75% of such amount as shall be necessary for ARC to


﻿0                                              7
refinance not less than 80% of loans from Participating Banks and LDB to farmers
in the Project Area for land development. The Borrower shall exercise its rights
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purpose of the Credit
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c)   In order to assist Rajasthan in carrying out Parts A through F and
H of the Project, the Borrower shall make available to Rajasthan the proceeds
of the Credit under Categories (1)(a) and (2).
(d)   The Borrower shall cause Rajasthan to make arrangements in its annual
development plan for the provision of funds required for the implementation of
the Project in accordance with a detailed schedule of construction which shall be
acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to
take all action which shall be necessary on their part to enable (i) Rajasthan to
perform all its obligations under the Project Agreement, and (ii) ARC to perform
its obligations under the ARC Agreement, and shall not take or permit any of
its agencies to take any action which would prevent or interfere with the
performance of any such obligations of ARC.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. The Association may, upon the occurrence of certain events
specified in Sections 6.02 or 7.01 of the General Conditions or in Sections 4.02
or 4.03 of this Agreement and the continuance thereof for the period, if any,
specified for the purpose: (i) suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals from the Credit Account or (ii) declare the principal of the
Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately together with the
charges thereon.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:


﻿8
(a)   Rajasthan shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement; ARC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the ARC Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that (i) Rajasthan will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement, or (ii) ARC will be able to perform its obligations under the
ARC Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c)   ARC shall have become unable to pay any of its debts as they mature
or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by ARC or by others whereby
any of the property of ARC shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
(d)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ARC or for the
suspension of the operations of ARC.
Section 4.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in Paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 4.02 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The ARC Agreement has been duly executed and delivered on behalf
of ARC and has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)   The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly executed and delivered
on behalf of the Borrower and ARC and has been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.


﻿9
(c)   The Project Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by
Rajasthan and has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
action.
(d)   RLDC has been duly established under the laws of Rajasthan with
capitalization, board membership and powers satisfactory to the Association.
(e)   CAA has been duly established by Rajasthan, with organization, board
membership and powers satisfactory to the Association.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the ARC Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, ARC, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of ARC in accordance with its terms;
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and ARC,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
ARC in accordance with its terms;
(c)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, Rajasthan and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of Rajasthan in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date October 29, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement and those
of Section 4.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 30 years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director
or Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿10
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the
Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s / T. N. Kaul
Autliorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mervyn L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿11
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works
(a)  infrastructure           30,000,000          42%
(b)   on-farm                 21,400,000          42%
development
*          (2)  Equipment and                  6,300,000
vehicles
(a)   directly                                    100% of foreign
imported                                    expenditures (CIF)
(b)  locally                                      100% of local
manufactured                                expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c)  imported items                               70%
procured locally
(3)  Fertilizer                     I 8,700,000        100% of foreign
expenditures (CIF)
(4)  Unallocated                    6,600,000
TOTAL        83,000,000


﻿12
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from, the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding  the allocation  of an   amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above: (a) if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) with respect to Categories (1) and (2) if such reallocation cannot fully meet
the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made; and (b) if the estimate
of expenditures to be made under any Category shall decrease, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) re-allocate the amount of such Category, no
longer required therefore to Category (1) and (ii) increase the percentage applicable
to such Category (1) correspondingly (up to a maximum of 100% net of taxes).
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting


﻿13
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of a program for the improvement of irrigation and road
facilities, on-farm  development, village development, and the provision of
agricultural supporting services to serve an area of about 200,000 ha in the
command area of Rajasthan Canal. It consists of the following parts:
A.    Land Development
(1)   The leveling of about 32,000 ha of land;
(2)   The reclamation of about 17,000 ha of saline soils;
(3)   The construction and lining of about 5,800 km of watercourses.
B.    Canal Lining
The construction of about 915 km of canal lining to increase canal capacity
and reduce water losses.
C.    Afforestation
Afforestation, including the plantation of shelter belts along about 5700 km
of canals and roads, controlled pasture development on about 35,000 ha
of sand dunes in and around the irrigated areas and firewood plantation.
D.    Roads
The construction of about 430 km of major, market, feeder and village roads.
E.    Water Supply
The construction and installation of sanitary water supply systems in about
100 villages.
F.    Vehicles, Equipment and Buildings
I.   The provision and utilization of vehicles and equipment for project
administration, construction of works under force account and
agricultural support services.


﻿15
2.   The construction of temporary buildings for offices and staff housing
during construction.
G.    Fertilizer
The procurement of 46,000 nutrient tons of fertilizer and its
distribution to Project Area farmers over a period of three years after on-farm
development works on their farms have been completed.
H.   Research, Extension, Operation and Maintenance
The improvement of agricultural research and extension work in the
Project Area and of operation and maintenance standards for Project
irrigation and road systems.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms of Subsidiary
Loan Agreement
For ARC refinancing up to 9 years:
(a)   Annual interest rate to be not less than 6-1/4%, less 1/4% for prompt
repayment;
(b)   Repayment to be made at the end of nine years.
II.   For ARC refinancing from 9 to 15 years:
(a)   Annual interest rate to be not less than 6-3/4%, less 1/4% for prompt
repayment;
(b)   Repayment to be made at the end of 15 years.
Ill. General
The exchange risk to be on the account of the Borrower.


