                                  Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR1467




         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         (IBRD-7230-ME)

                                    ON A

                                    LOAN


                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$108 MILLION

                                   TO THE

     NATIONAL BANK OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SERVICES (BANOBRAS)

        WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                                  FOR THE

 DECENTRALIZED INFRASTRUCTURE REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT LOAN
                          PROJECT


                                June 28, 2010




Sustainable Development
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                      (Exchange Rate Effective ­ May 6, 2010)

                        Currency Unit = Mexican Peso (Mx$)
                              Mx$1.00 = US$0.07826
                          US$1.00 = Variable Mx$12.7780


                                  FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 - December 31


                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANOBRAS   National Bank of Public Works and Services
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CEAG       Guanajuato State Water Commission
COVEG      Housing Commission of the State of Guanajuato
ESMF       Environmental and Social Management Framework
ESU        Environmental and Social Unit
FM         Financial Management
FMR        Financial Monitoring Report
HDM4       Highway Development and Management Model
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IEEG       Ecology Institute of the State of Guanajuato
IRR        Internal Rate of Return
ISR        Implementation Status Reports
IVEG       Housing Institute of the State of Guanajuato
KPI        Key Performance Indicator
LCR        Latin American and the Caribbean Region
MAGAS      Manual de Gestión Ambiental y Social (Environment and Social Manual)
MTR        Mid-term Review
Mx$        Mexican Peso
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO        Non-government Organization
NPV        Net Present Value
NWC        National Water Commission
OBD        Output-based Disbursement
OBDI       Output-based Disbursement Indicator
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PDO        Project Development Objective
PRF        Project Result Framework
PREM       Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
PROSAVI    Housing Credits and Subsidies Special Program
PSR        Project Status Report
QAE        Quality at Entry
QSA        Quality of Supervision
SAS        Subcomité Ambiental y Social (Environment and Social Sub-Committee)
SDSH       Secretariat of Social and Human Development of the State of Guanajuato
SFA        Secretariat of Finance and Administration of the State of Guanajuato
SIL    Standard Investment Loan
SoG    State of Guanajuato
SOP    Secretariat of Public Works of the State of Guanajuato
SWAp   Sector Wide Approach
TA     Technical Assistance
TTL    Task Team Leader
UFW    Unaccounted-for Water
USA    United States of America
US$    United States Dollar




                   Vice President:         Pamela Cox
                 Country Director:         Gloria M. Grandolini
                  Sector Manager:          Guang Zhe Chen
             Project Team Leader:          Greg J. Browder
                ICR Team Leader:           Greg J. Browder
                                                        MEXICO

DECENTRALIZED INFRASTRUCTURE REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                                      CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 21
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 22
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 24
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 26
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 30
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 31
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 39
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 47
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 49
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 50
  Annex 7. BANOBRAS Comments on ICR and Project ............................................... 52
  Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 63
  Annex 9. Map ............................................................................................................... 65
A. Basic Information
                                                                                  MX -Decentralized
Country:                          Mexico          Project Name:                Infrastructure Reform &
                                                                                  Development Loan
Project ID:                       P080149          L/C/TF Number(s):                 IBRD-72300
ICR Date:                                          ICR Type:                           Core ICR
                          Specific Investment Loan Borrower:                         BANOBRAS
Lending Instrument:
                                     (SIL)         Sub-borrower:              State of Guanajuato (SoG)
Original Total
                                US$108 million     Disbursed Amount:                US$105.2
Commitment:
Environmental Category: FI-Financial Intermediary
Borrower: Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C. (BANOBRAS)
Sub-borrower: State of Guanajuato (SoG)
Implementing Agencies: The main implementing state agencies were: the Secretariat of Finance and
Administration (SFA), the Water Commission (CEAG), the Housing Institute--which later became the
Housing Commission (IVEG/COVEG) and Secretariat of Public Works (SOP).
Co-financiers and Other External Partners: N.A.

B. Key Dates
                                                                                       Revised / Actual
      Process              Date               Process             Original Date
                                                                                           Date(s)
Concept Review:          5/22/2002      Effectiveness:                 n.a.               6/14/2005
Appraisal:              12/10/2003      Restructuring(s):                                12/10/2008
Approval:                 6/8/2004      Mid-term Review:           12/15/2006            10/23/2006
                                        Closing:                   12/31/2008            12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                             Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                                            Moderate
Bank Performance:                                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                                              Moderately Satisfactory
Sub-borrower Performance:                                             Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                  Ratings                  Borrower                      Ratings
Quality at Entry:        Moderately Unsatisfactory BANOBRAS:                      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                   Sub-Borrower
Quality of Supervision:        Satisfactory                                            Satisfactory
                                                   Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank
                          Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
      Implementation                              QAG Assessments (if
                                 Indicators                                             Rating
        Performance                                         any)
 Potential Problem Project at
                                     No          Quality at Entry (QEA):                 None
any time (Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any time                     Quality of Supervision
                                     No                                                  None
(Yes/No):                                        (QSA):
 DO rating before
                                Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:




                                                  i
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                          Original               Actual
 Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
 Roads and highways                                                         40                     40
 Water supply                                                               30                     30
 Housing finance and real estate markets                                    10                     10
 Housing construction                                                       10                     10
 Sanitation                                                                 10                     10
 Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
 Access to urban services and housing                                        24                    24
 Decentralization                                                            25                    25
 Municipal governance and institution building                               13                    13
 Other financial and private sector development                              13                    13
 Rural services and infrastructure                                           25                    25


 E. Bank Staff
          Positions                            At ICR                                At Approval
 Vice President:                            Pamela Cox                             David de Ferranti
 Country Director:                     Gloria M. Grandolini                       Isabel M. Guerrero
 Sector Manager:                        Guang Zhe Chen                             John Henry Stein
 Project Team Leader:                    Greg J. Browder                            Krishna Challa
 ICR Team Leader:                        Greg J. Browder
 ICR Primary Authors:           Maria Cecilia Zanetta/Greg Browder


 F. Results Framework Analysis
 Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document ­ PAD)

 The Project Development Objective (PDO) defined in the Loan Agreement and Operational Manual is used
 for this ICR.
 PDO: To improve the provision and performance of infrastructure services in the eligible state. In the case of
 State of Guanajuato (SoG) these included roads, water supply and sanitation, and low-income housing.
 Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

 The PDOs were not modified during the life of the loan.

(a) PDO Indicators
                                              Original Target
                                                                                      Actual Value Achieved
                                                   Values         Formally Revised
      Indicator         Baseline Value                                                    at Completion or
                                               (from Approval       Target Values
                                                                                            Target Years
                                                 Documents)
                     Increase in the share of the state road network, managed by the Secretariat of Public
Indicator 1
                     Works (Secretaría de Obras Públicas ­ SOP), that is in good or fair condition.

                        86% of the state's
                                                                                            86% of the state's
Value                  paved road network
                                                                                         paved network good or
quantitative or           in good or fair
                                                                                        fair condition (Based on
Qualitative            condition (Based on
                                                                                         IRI-Roughness Index)
                         IRI-Roughness
                              Index)
Date achieved               12/31/2005                                                         12/31/2009
                     Not Achieved. The percentage of the state paved road network in good or fair condition
Comments
                     fluctuated between 92% and 86% during the course of the project, with both the baseline
(incl. %
                     (2005) and the final (2009) value at 86%. This means that 14% of the roads were in poor
achievement)
                     condition. There was no formal target in the results monitoring framework. In general, the




                                                       ii
                  road network in Guanajuato is considered to be stable and in reasonably good condition,
                  and among the best in Mexico.

                  Increased use of water and sanitation services by consumers measured by the annual
Indicator 2
                  volume of accounted-for water in municipal capitals.
Value
quantitative or     129.6 million m3             n.a.                                    171.5 million m3
Qualitative)
Date achieved            12/31/2005                                                        12/31/2008
                  Achieved: Although no specific target was specified at the time of project preparation, a
                  substantial improvement was observed in the accounted-for water during the life of the
Comments                                                3
                  project, from 129.6 to 171.5 million m between 2005 and 2008--i.e., equivalent to a 32%
(incl. %
                  increase. Access to water and sanitation services expanded substantially during the life
achievement)
                  of the project, positioning the SoG above the national averages in terms of both water
                  and sanitation coverage in urban and rural areas.
                  State implements low-income housing program using clear eligibility criteria, supported by
Indicator 3
                  transparent subsidy instruments.
                                                                                    A new housing law was
                                                                                     approved in 2008 that
                                                                                    provides the foundations
                    IVEG's statute does
                                                                                     for a more sustainable
                     not allow it to grant
                                                                                      low-income program
                          subsidies.
                                                                                    IVEG has been replaced
Value               Indirect subsidies
                                                                                      by the State Housing
quantitative or     are embedded in
                                                                                     Commission (COVEG)
Qualitative)        housing programs
                                                                                       However, the more
                   State transfers are
                                                                                     robust policy framework
                   the main source of
                                                                                      has failed to translate
                    IVEG's financing.
                                                                                        into clear eligibility
                                                                                      criteria or transparent
                                                                                             subsides.
Date achieved            12/31/2004                                                         12/31/2009
                  Not achieved: Progress was made toward the development of a low-income housing
                  strategy. Its basic tenets are embedded in the Housing Law that was approved in 2008.
                  Likewise, there were some improvements in COVEG's administrative capacity, including
Comments
                  portfolio management, loan origination practices, and customer service. However, these
(incl. %
                  improvements have not been sufficient to compensate for COVEG's lack of coherent
achievement)
                  long-term strategy and pro-poor focus, as well as its financial fragility and unsustainable
                  financial practices. As a result, the agency's performance in terms of both production of
                  low-income housing and targeting deteriorated substantially during the life of the project.
                  The SoG's fiduciary and safeguards procedures and systems, as well as access to
Indicator 4
                  information, have been improved.
                    Environmental and
                  social safeguards are
                     applied mainly to
                                                                                        Environmental and
                   physical investments
                                                                                       social safeguards in
                    with federal funding
                                                                                                place
                    A new Access to
Value                                                                                Ample consultation with
                   Public Information
quantitative or                                                                        civil society on the
                   Law is approved in
Qualitative)                                                                                  project
                    September 2004
                                                                                      Strong emphasis on
                  The State's 25-year
                                                                                      enhancing access to
                  development plan is
                                                                                       public information
                    developed using
                       extensive
                   consultations with




                                                   iii
                         civil society
Date achieved            12/31/2004                                                      12/31/2009
                    Achieved: The operation succeeded in mainstreaming sound environmental and social
                    safeguards in sector agencies--i.e., SOP, CEAG, and COVEG. It also supported the
Comments            strengthening of the state's environmental agency IEEG, promoting a consistent
(incl. %            approach across sectors. In addition, the project supported the considerable efforts to
achievement)        enhance governance on the part of state authorities. The implementation of an e-
                    procurement system was initiated under the project, which will ensure consistency and
                    transparency in procurement procedures across all state agencies.

 (b) Intermediate Output Indicators
                                                  Original Target                          Actual Value
                                                                       Formally
                                                   Values (from                            Achieved at
       Indicator          Baseline Value                             Revised Target
                                                     approval                             Completion or
                                                                        Values
                                                   documents)                             Target Years
                                                   Roads
                      Share of road work program that has been derived using the HDM4 methodology for
 Indicator 1 (*)
                      planning and maintenance decisions.
                                                      2,240 km of road                     2,437 km of road
                           2,163.6 km of road
 Value                                              inventory completed                 inventory completed
                       inventory completed and
 (quantitative                                       and road condition                  and road condition
                       road condition quantified
 or Qualitative)                                   quantified in terms of              quantified in terms of
                         in terms of roughness
                                                         roughness                             roughness
 Date achieved                 12/31/2004                                                      12/31/2009
                      Achieved: In 2008, a total of 2,437 km of paved roads were included in the state's
                      HDM4 system and road condition quantified in terms of roughness. The original target
                      was amply exceeded, as an additional 273 km were added into the state's HDM4
 Comments             system compared to the original target of 169 km. Between 2004 and 2009, the
 (incl. %             coverage of the HDM4 system increased from 82% to 86% of the total state's paved
 achievement)         road network, as the kilometers of paved road incorporated into the system exceeded
                      those of new paved roads. SOP's annual work program for conservation activities is
                      derived using the HDM4 model. Guanajuato is the only state in Mexico that has a fully
                      developed HDM4 system.
                      Increased productivity of water operators that serve more than 20,000 inhabitants as
 Indicator 2
                      measured by the revenue/production ratio.1
                                                                                        81increments greater
                                          3   64 increments in the                          than 10% in the
                          Mx$3.93 per m
                                               revenue/production                        revenue/production
 Value                    (average for the
                                                ratio (measured in                      of 24 water operators
 quantitative or             largest ten
                                                   terms of 10%                               that received
 Qualitative)           municipalities, excl.
                                              intervals for each m3                        efficiency-related
                                Leon)
                                               of water produced).                        investments under
                                                                                                the project
 Date achieved               12/31/2004                                                        12/31/2006




 1
     The revenue/production ratio is a measure of efficiency that is defined as the ratio of total revenues
 collected per cubic meter of water produced. Thus, increases in the revenue/production ratio indicate
 improvements in commercial and physical management. This indicator was operationalized as follows:
 each 10 percent increase in this ratio obtained by individual water operators in municipalities with more
 than 20,000 inhabitants in a given year was considered as an increment. For example, if for a specific
 operator, this ratio increased from Mx$4 per m3 in 2004 to Mx$4.8 and Mx$5.3 per m3 in 2005 and 2006,
 respectively, this increase was counted as three increments (i.e., two increments for 2004-2005 and one
 increment for 2005-2006).



                                                     iv
                  Achieved: Actual achievements exceeded original targets by roughly 45%, as 81
                  annual increments greater than 10% in the revenue/production were achieved among
                  the 24 water operators that received efficiency-related investments under the project
Comments
                  between 2004 and 2006. Seven of these achieved two increments, while one of them
(incl. %
                  achieved three increments during this period.
achievement)
                  Overall, the average revenue/production for the 36 municipalities with more than
                  20,000 inhabitants increased by 44 percent between 2005 and 2008--from
                  Mx$3.49/m3 to Mx$5.03/m3.
                  Increase in the percentage of the subsidies granted that are targeted to low-income
Indicator 3
                  households (i.e., targeting).
                                                                                          42% of loans (i.e.,
                                                                                          1,557 out of 3,699
                                                                                       loans) in IVEG's low-
                      79% of loans (i.e.,
                                                                                           income housing
                     2,178 out of 2,765
                                                                                            programs were
                   loans) in IVEG's low-
                                                                                          targeted to hhlds.
                       income housing
Value                                                                                   with an income less
                        programs were
quantitative or                                                                            than four VSMs
                      targeted to hhlds.
Qualitative)                                                                              during 2006-2007
                    with an income less
                     than four times the
                                                                                                 52% of
                        minimum wage
                                                                                           IVEG/COVEG's
                        (VSM) in 2004
                                                                                        loans were targeted
                                                                                       to low-income hhlds.
                                                                                          during 2008-2009
Date achieved              12/31/2004                                                         12/31/2009
                  Not achieved: Targeting of IVEG's low-income housing programs deteriorated during
                  the life of the loan, with the percentage of loans granted to low-income households
Comments
                  (i.e., those with an income less than 4 times the minimum wage) decreasing from 79%
(incl. %
                  in 2004 to 42% for 2006-2007--i.e., equivalent to almost a 50% reduction. Targeting
achievement)
                  improved slightly after the restructuring, as roughly 52% of the outputs under
                  COVEG's loans were granted to low-income hhlds. during 2008 and 2009.
                  Number of project implementation agencies that have in place systems and trained
Indicator 4       staff for procurement planning, financial management, implementation of
                  environmental and social safeguards and consultation process.
                                                                                         Environmental and
                       Little institutional                                                   social units
                          capacity for                                                  established in SOP,
                     environmental and                                                  CEAG, and COVEG
                         social impact
                          analysis and                                                   IEEG's institutional
Value
                    management within                                                           capacity
quantitative or
                    individual agencies                                                      strengthened
Qualitative)
                   Uneven application                                                  A total of 516
                    of environmental                                               physical investments
                     procedures for                                                     subjected to
                  physical investments                                             environmental review
                                                                                     under the project
Date achieved          12/31/2004                                                       12/31/2009
                  Achieved: One of the project's most remarkable achievements was the substantial
                  strengthening of institutional and technical capacity in environmental and social
                  management of investment projects both within individual institutions and across
                  sectors. As mentioned earlier, environmental and social units have been established in
Comments          SOP, CEAG and IVEG/COVEG, with newly adopted environmental and social
(incl. %          procedures being applied across each of the agencies. In addition, the institutional
achievement)      capacity of the state's environmental agency ­ IEEG was also substantially
                  strengthened as a result of the project, as it played a central role coordinating the
                  actions of the cross-sector committee responsible for environmental review of the
                  physical investments supported under the project.




                                                   v
                    A total of 516 physical investments were subjected to environmental review under the
                    project, together with an additional 298 ones that, although not financed under the
                    project, were also subjected to the same procedures. In addition, all executing
                    agencies (which included some municipal water operators) received training in
                    procurement. Consultation mechanisms were vigorously implemented, particularly at
                    the project level and in the water and sanitation sector.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
          Date ISR                                                                 Actual Disbursements
 No.                               DO                              IP
          Archived                                                                    (USD millions)
   1     12/03/2004            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                        0.00
   2     05/09/2005       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                 0.00
   3     01/04/2006       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                28.27
   4     06/08/2006            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       28.27
   5     06/30/2006            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       51.87
   6     12/18/2006            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       51.87
   7     06/04/2007            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       51.87
   8     12/13/2007            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       61.12
   9     06/20/2008            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       88.44
  10     11/24/2008            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       88.44
  11     05/28/2009            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      105.17
  12     11/23/2009            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      105.17
  13     12/22/2009            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      105.17




                                                    vi
H. Restructuring (if any)
                      Board      ISR Ratings at   Amount Disbursed at    Reason for
   Restructuring                 Restructuring
                     Approved                       Restructuring      Restructuring &
      Date(s)
                    PDO Change    DO        IP      (in US$ million)  Key Changes Made

                                                                      Restructuring of the
     12/10/2008         N.A.      S         S          88.44
                                                                      housing component



I. Disbursement Graph




                                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Mexico's constitutional amendments and corresponding legislation adopted in the 1990's aimed to
firmly link the country's future economic and social development to a much more decentralized
model in most economic and service sectors. However, the majority of the states still lacked the
institutional and technical capacities needed to effectively undertake the responsibilities to be
transferred to them and to formulate comprehensive economic and sector strategies to guide the
decentralization process at the state level. Thus, ensuring that Mexican states had adequate
capacities was a necessary condition to guarantee the success of Mexico's decentralization
process.

In this context, Mexican authorities requested the Bank to provide support to the National Public
Works Bank (Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos - BANOBRAS) to develop a multi-
sector infrastructure reform and development strategy program to support the implementation of
comprehensive infrastructure reform and development strategies in Mexican states. The State of
Guanajuato (SoG) was selected by Mexico's Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (Secretaría
de Hacienda y Crédito Público ­ SHCP) to be first state to participate in this program.

In order to facilitate sub-national investment lending in Mexico, the Bank worked with
BANOBRAS to develop new mechanisms and modalities, which were incorporated into the
project on a pilot basis, most prominent of which were:

    Financial intermediation through BANOBRAS which on-lent to Guanajuato
    Currency SWAP with BANOBRAS to lower overall peso lending costs to the state
    Sector wide approach (SWAp)
    Output based disbursement concepts
    Use of country safeguard systems that meet the spirit of the Bank's policies.

The project was considered a pilot, which operated at three levels: i) the first of a series of state
investment programs with BANOBRAS (which did not materialize); ii) adopting Bank
procedures and policies to fit the needs of an advanced middle-income country such as Mexico;
and iii) working directly with a state government to address multiple sectors. Although this ICR
recognizes the multiple implicit objectives of the project, the evaluation process is based upon the
agreed-upon Project Results Framework (PRF) which focused mainly on sector performance for
roads, water, and housing sectors in Guanajuato.

During loan preparation and negotiations, the dialogue was mainly between the Bank,
BANOBRAS, and the SoG. The interaction with specific state implementing agencies was more
limited. BANOBRAS, in turn, on-lent to the SoG under a subsidiary loan agreement. The project
specific agreements in the IBRD-BANOBRAS loan were passed on to the SOG through an
Operations Manual (OM), which was approved by the Bank. The OM formed part of the
subsidiary agreement between BANOBRAS and SoG. Thus, for the state implementing agencies,
the OM was the key project document.




                                                 1
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and Key Performance Indicators
            Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
Project Development Objective - PDO

The Project Development Objective (PDO) was defined slightly differently in the PAD and in the Loan
Agreement (LA). The Operations Manual (OM) adopted the PDO utilized in the LA.

    PAD: To achieve sustainable investment levels and an efficient operation of the sector strategies for the
    following sectors: road transport, water supply and sanitation, and low-income housing, with enhanced
    basic services for the poorest population segments and financial sustainability.
    Loan Agreement and OM: To improve the provision and performance of infrastructure services (i.e.,
    roads, water supply and sanitation, and low-income housing) in the eligible state (i.e., the State of
    Guanajuato).


Key Performance Indicators

The Project Result Framework (PRF) presented in the Loan Agreement and Operations Manual is utilized
for this ICR.2 There are four Outcome Indicators to assess the impact of the project after its completion, as
well as several Intermediate Indicators for each of the project's four components. The project's outcome
indicators are:

    Increase in the share of the state road network managed by the Public Works Secretariat (Secretaría de
    Obras Públicas ­ SOP) that is in good and fair condition.
    Increased use of water and sanitation services by consumers as measured by the volume of water sold
    in municipalities.
    The housing institute (IVEG) implements low-income housing program using clear eligibility criteria,
    supported by transparent subsidy instruments.
    State fiduciary and safeguard procedures and systems, as well as transparency and access to
    information, have been improved.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The original PDO remained unchanged during the life of the project. Two new Intermediate
Indicators were added for the low-income housing component under the 2008 restructuring to
reflect the modifications that were introduced at the time.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
                                           Primary Target Groups
The project's beneficiaries were not explicitly identified at appraisal. However, based on the project's design,
these can be defined as:
 the participating state agencies, as a result of enhanced technical and institutional capacity; and
 the state's population, as a result of improved and expanded service provision.




2
 The PRF in the PAD is significantly different than in the Loan Agreement/Operations Manual, indicating that the
PAD PRF was not updated after negotiations.


                                                         2
1.5 Original Components (as approved)
                                      Original Project Components
Component A - Implementing the Road Transport Sector Strategy Model
(U$117 million, of which US$59 million will be financed under the IBRD loan)
This component provided support to the state's three-year sector strategy to improve overall performance of
the road transport sector. It was structured into five sub-components:
1.1 Institutional strengthening of the State Public Works Secretariat (Secretaría de Obras Públicas ­ SOP);
1.2 Expansion of the state's managed network;
1.3 Improvement of bridges and elimination of bottlenecks;
1.4 Pre-investment studies for construction of toll roads; and
1.5 Improvement and construction of rural roads.
Component B ­ Implementing the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Strategy
(US$94 million, of which US$38 million were to financed under the IBRD loan)
This component addressed the problems identified by the SoG in its water and sanitation service provision.
It was structured into three sub-components:
2.1 Improve water resources management;
2.2 Increase coverage of water supply and sanitation; and
2.3 Institutional strengthening of the State Water Commission (Comisión Estatal del Agua de Guanajuato -
     CEAG) and support mechanisms to operators.
Component C ­ Implementing the Low-Income Housing Strategy
(US$ 7 million to be financed under the IBRD loan)
This component addressed the problems faced by the SoG in low-income housing provision. It was
structured into two sub-components:
3.1 Institutional strengthening of the State Housing Agency (Instituto de Vivienda del Estado de Guanajuato
     - IVEG);
3.2 Increase Loans for low-income families

Component D ­ Technical Assistance to Cross-Sector Areas (US$1.9 million of which US$1.5 million
were to be financed under the IBRD loan)
This Technical Assistance (TA) component was included to strengthen cross-sectoral capabilities within the
state to achieve full compliance with the Program's Operating Regulations. It was structured in five sub-
components:
4.1 Strengthening of the mechanisms to screen, prioritize and monitor public investments;
4.2 Strengthening of the existing consultation, participation and disclosure mechanisms;
4.3 Enhancing the capacity of relevant state agencies and practices in the safeguard areas;
4.4 Strengthening of procurement policies and practices; and
4.5 Optimization of the existing financial management and audit systems and processes.

1.6 Revised Components
                                       Revised Project Components
Only the housing component was formally revised through a restructuring in 2008. The program to promote
housing loans for low-income families was dropped and a new activity was added to Component C: sites
and services (Lotes con Servicio), which provided basic infrastructure (roads, power, water, etc.) for lots that
were to be sold to low-income families to progressively build their houses on. In addition, an additional
component was added as described below.
Component E ­ `Piso Firme' Program
(US$1 million will be financed under the IBRD loan))
An additional component was introduced as part of the 2008 project restructuring. It provided support to low-
income households through the provision of building materials to replace up to 50 m2 of dirt floors for cement
floors. Although this activity supported the same low-income housing objective as Component C, a new
component was added to facilitate project financial management by a new executing agency--i.e., the
Human and Social Development Secretariat ­ SDSH.

1.7 Other significant changes
                                             Loan Amendments

                                                       3
   First loan amendment: The Loan Agreement was amended to include municipalities and municipal
   water operators as executing agencies on Nov. 2006.
   Second loan amendment: The project's Loan Agreement was amended again on Dec. 2008 to reflect
   the modifications introduced during the restructuring of the project. Specifically, the project was
   restructured to address the low performance of the low-income component, by reallocating US$1 million
   to a new component (Component E ­ `Piso Firme' Program) and the balance of funds to a new sites-
   and-services program. Additional modifications included: i) extending the original closing date from 31
   Dec. 2008 to 30 June 2009; ii) defining the utilization of originally unallocated funds; and iii) modifying
   the submission deadline for the quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs).
   Extension of closing date: The closing date was extended a second time, from 30 June 2009, to 31
   Dec. 2009 in May 2009.
   Cancellation of funds: In Feb. 2009, US$2.83 million (equivalent to 2.6 percent of the original loan
   amount) that resulted from fluctuations in the exchange rate had to be cancelled because the loan
   amount was specified in Mx Pesos in the debt decree issued by the SoG's legislature.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry (QAE)
This ICR considers the operation's overall QAE rating to be Moderately Unsatisfactory. While
the project's design included some valuable innovations, some of these innovations were not
sufficiently developed and made implementation overly complex. Likewise, the scope of the
project was too ambitious, particularly in view that it was a pilot experience and that there were
multiple actors involved, including BANOBRAS and multiple state agencies. The main strengths
and weaknesses in the project's design are summarized below. Section 2.4 addresses safeguard
issues at both the preparation and implementation stages.
                                 Assessment of Quality at Entry ­ QAE
Strengths
 Relevancy: The project was highly relevant, as it provided support to a state-level strategy for
   decentralized infrastructure development that was consistent with Mexico's overall decentralization
   strategy. The project also reflected the circumstances, priorities and capacities of the SoG and it
   supported its State Development Plan (`Plan Estatal de Desarrollo')--a long-term plan prepared on the
   basis of a far reaching consultation process.
 Consistency with CAS objectives: The 2005-2008 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by
   the Board in April 15, 2004 identified decentralized development and working with sub-national
   governments as a priority. The CAS specifically pointed to the importance of capacity building,
   institutional strengthening, and community participation to improve the effectiveness of the
   decentralization process and the efficiency of sub-national expenditures, as well as of the use of country
   systems in financial management, procurement and other systems. This operation directly supported
   these priorities.
 Scaling-up potential: The operation was envisioned as the first step toward a broader World Bank
   program of state-level financial support through BANOBRAS. As noted earlier, decentralization of
   infrastructure planning and implementation from the federal to the state level was promoted in the 2005-
   2008 CAS. In addition, the CAS noted that the non-additionality of IBRD funding together with the `hassle
   factors' associated to the Bank's lending (i.e., procurement rules, audits, and safeguard requirements)
   had made sectoral agencies reluctant to take Bank-financed loans. The Mexico Decentralized
   Infrastructure Program was originally designed to respond to these challenges by utilizing country
   fiduciary and safeguard systems, and engaging with state-level governments on a more programmatic
   basis with BANOBRAS.
 Sound state selection: The choice of the SoG to be the first state to participate in the program was a
   sound one. The SoG exhibited all the necessary conditions for success, including: creditworthiness,
   responsible fiscal management, sound sectors strategies in key sectors, and strong political support.
 Solid sector-work foundation: Project preparation built upon the sound sector work conducted by the
   Bank as part of the 2002 state-level Public Expenditure Review focusing on Guanajuato, which included
   one chapter on transport, water, and housing. The PER was well-done, and presented a sound
   diagnosis of the sectors included in the operation.
Weaknesses
 Competing program and project focus: The focus on developing the broader World Bank-

                                                     4
   BANOBRAS Program is obvious in the PAD, where the program aspects share equal attention with the
   specific Guanajuato project. This resulted in a complex and difficult to understand PAD, and probably
   contributed to the quality at entry problems for the project.
   Overly ambitious scope: The project included three infrastructure sectors, as well as several state-wide
   systems, including financial administration, procurement, public investments management, as well as
   participation and safeguards practices and procedures. The exceedingly ambitious scope of the project
   hindered the ability of the Bank's preparation and supervision teams to tackle each of these areas with
   the necessary depth. It also taxed the state's implementation capacity.
   Weak M&E system: As explained in further detail in Section 2.3, the project's design lacked a sound
   Project Result Framework (PRF) to systematically measure the impact of the project. The PRF included
   in the PAD focused mainly on the output-based benchmarks that were adopted for disbursements and
   did not include a robust set of outcome indicators to capture the project's overall impact at the sector
   level. Although a more developed PRF was included in the Loan Agreement, this weakness persisted
   throughout the life of the operation.
   Operational complexity: The project's operational aspects were complex with a four layer structure: i)
   multiple implementing agencies, ii) SoG's SFA as the state's coordinating body, iii) BANOBRAS, and iv)
   the World Bank. Procurement, financial management, and disbursement actions and approvals often
   needed to work their up and down the four-layer ladder. The innovations described below, added an
   extra element of complexity. The operation's operational complexity imposed a substantial burden on the
   State as a whole and the individual participating agencies, which had no previous experience in working
   with the Bank.
   Sector-wide approach (SWAp): The program adopted a SWAp approach in the water and transport
   sectors. SWAps require an in-depth understanding of the sector, intensive policy dialogue with client,
   and a clear vision of sector development. In retrospect, it is now evident that, at the time of appraisal,
   the level of strategic coherence varied considerably among the two sectors. The state's water sector
   strategy was clearly defined by CEAG, with the operation providing support to its implementation. The
   transport sector, however, did not have an equally clear strategy, particularly with respect to the
   emphasis on maintenance and rehabilitation vis-à-vis the construction of new roads. The strategic focus
   did not sharpen during implementation, calling into question whether the transport component truly
   adopted a SWAp-type approach. On the positive side, the SWAp approach helped ensure that newly
   adopted safeguard procedures and systems were fully mainstreamed into these two sectors.
   Output-based disbursements - OBDs: Early on in the early preparation phase, the Bank task team
   advocated for the use of OBDs, which rely on national procurement procedures, as a way of streamlining
   project implementation and preparing the ground for the wholesale WB-BANOBRAS lending program.
   OBDs, theoretically, reflect key elements of the strategy being supported in each sector, thus, providing
   a flexible disbursement framework that emphasized outputs (i.e., service delivery) rather than inputs (i.e.,
   works, goods and services). However, the OBD framework was cumbersome, failed to fully reflect sector
   strategic objectives, and resulted in a number of unintended consequences (see Section 2.3). In
   addition, the Bank regulations that were effective at the time prevented the implementation of the OBD
   framework, resulting in a hybrid approach that led to awkward administrative procedures (see Section
   2.4).
   Lack of a low-income housing sector strategy: The intervention within the low-income housing sector
   was much more modest than in the other two sectors, including only support for institutional
   strengthening and low-income housing programs, with a total financing equivalent to less than 7 percent
   of the overall loan amount. However, even taking into consideration the relative smaller scale of the
   intervention, the Bank preparation team failed to fully identify: i) the institutional weakness of the state
   housing agency IVEG; ii) the severe inconsistencies in the existing legal framework that did not allowed
   IVEG to grant explicit subsidies to the poor, which were central to the strategy supported under the
   project; iii) the lack of commitment to reform on the part of IVEG's authorities; and iv) the low priority
   assigned to the reform of the low-income housing sector by SoG authorities. These weaknesses at entry
   eventually hindered the implementation of this component and eventually required the project's
   restructuring.

2.2 Implementation
Project implementation was up to a slow start, with 12 months elapsing between the loan's Board
approval and its effectiveness. Delays were partly the result of the complex approval procedures
for the BANOBRAS-SoG subsidiary loan agreement. Once in motion, there were no significant
external factors that affected project implementation. The relative stable political and
macroeconomic environment that prevailed during the 2005-2008 was conducive to the project's
implementation. Even in the face of the 2008-2009 world recession, state authorities maintained

                                                      5
their commitment to the sector strategies supported under the project and maintained adequate
levels of funding. The project benefited from the sustained support of the state's authorities, even
after a change in administration that took place in 2006. The initial design weakness, however,
made implementation overly complex and required sustained efforts on the part of the Bank,
BANOBRAS and SOG to overcome them.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
                                    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design
The design of the operation's M&E system exhibited significant weaknesses, which eventually hindered its
effectiveness to monitor and assess the project's intended impact.
     Project Result Framework ­ PRF: As mentioned earlier, there were two different PRFs.
      PAD's PRF: The output-based benchmarks that were identified for disbursement purposes (OBDIs)
         were also designated as the project's main Outcome Indicators (OIs). These benchmarks were
         inadequate, as although there were some overlap between the two sets of indicators, there were
         also some important results not captured by the OBDIs.
      Loan Agreement's PRF: The PRF in the LA's side letter is different from the one in the PAD. It
         represents a considerable improvement relative to it, as it introduced OIs for each of the sectors.
         However, several weaknesses still remained, including: i) some of the outcome indicators lacked an
         operational definition, particularly those for low-income housing and cross-sector aspects); ii)
         specific target values and baselines were not defined; iii) intermediate indicators include both
         outcome and output indicators. The PAD was not retrofitted to reflect the revised PRF and other
         subsequent modifications, thus there are significant inconsistencies between the various project
         documents and the PAD became largely irrelevant.
     OBD Indicators: The PAD did not present a clear rationale of the OBDIs identified for the various
     sectors and most of them seemed to lack a meaningful definition. As in the case of the PRF, the OBD
     framework was further refined during the months preceding the signing of the Loan Agreement, which
     included a revised OBD framework.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Implementation
    PRF: Monitoring of project outcomes was, at best, erratic. This was the result of the weaknesses in the
    original PRF as well as the complex implementation of the project, with multiple aspects competing for
    the attention of the supervision team. There were several initiatives within the individual sectors to
    modify the outcome indicators for the sector, but they were not implemented. During the Mid-Term
    Review the need to formally revise the PRF was identified and programmed for an anticipated project
    restructuring. Although some of the revised OIs were modified in the ISRs, they were never formally
             3
    revised. Given that the project's restructuring took place toward the end of the life of the project, the
    decision was made to maintain the original PRF and to complement it with in-depth ex-post sector
    evaluations to be conducted by the SoG as part of the ICR preparation.
    OBD Indicators: Project's outputs were adequately monitored by the OBDIs. Not surprisingly, OBDIs
    became confused with OIs, inadvertently shifting attention away from the institutional and policy reforms
    supported under the project to focus mainly on outputs. The SoG understood that, by achieving their
    disbursement targets, they were reaching the Bank's understanding of the sector goals.
    The OBD framework was best utilized in the water and sanitation sector, as the OBDIs and unitary
    prices included in the Loan Agreement reflected the sector's strategic objectives of increasing
    residential coverage, increasing sewage treatment capacity, and enhancing efficiency of water
    operators.
    However, weaknesses and a general lack of understanding persisted in the housing and transport
    sector. In the case of the low-income housing component, OBDIs were based on the number of
    subsidies granted by IVEG, however, such disbursement category was not included in the Loan



3
    ISRR No. 9 (June 2008) modifies the operational definition of the outcome indicator defined for water
and sanitation. Specifically, the outcome indicator was `increased use of water and sanitation by
consumers.' As originally defined, it was measured by the volume of water sold in municipal capitals. The
new definition--i.e., percentage of urban and rural population with water supply and sanitation services--
constituted an improvement as it focused more precisely on expanded access to service in both rural and
urban areas.

                                                     6
    Agreement.

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Utilization
    PRF: OIs were most useful in the transport sector, as the corresponding outcome indicator--i.e., the
    percentage of the state's paved road network in good or fair condition--captured PDO performance for
    the sector in relation to conservation efforts. It was systematically monitored through the life of the
    project, serving as an effective pulse-taking tool for monitoring conservation efforts in an efficient and
    effective manner.
    OBD Indicators: The OBDIs proved useful as a basic pulse-taking tool to assess progress toward
    implementation. In the case of the water in particular, they also served to introduce a sound set of
    incentives, as the choice of outputs and unitary prices was align to the sector's strategic objectives of
    enhancing efficiency of water operators and expanding residential access and the capacity of treatment
    plants.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The project adopted the country/state systems to assess, minimize and mitigate the environmental
or social risks of each sub-component in the sector strategies. Although the safeguards-related
legal and institutional frameworks and capacities in the various sectors were evaluated as part of
the project's appraisal, some weaknesses went undetected at the time and had to be addressed
during implementation. The record of compliance with safeguards and fiduciary frameworks
during the life of the project can be summarized as follows:
                                  Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Environmental and Social Safeguards
    Country System Concept: The adoption of country systems for safeguards was perhaps the most
    controversial aspect of the program design, giving rise to criticisms and special scrutiny from local and
    international non-government organizations. The intention was to facilitate a wholesale lending
    approach through the IBRD-BANOBRAS Program, and to use the Project to help build the social and
    environmental capacity of Guanajuato state agencies while at the same time materially meeting Bank
    safeguard policies. The Project was considered in a pilot in the use of Country Safeguard Systems
    within the Bank.
    PAD Presentation: The key instrument to guide the Program was the Environmental and Social
    Management Framework (ESMF) which is summarized in the PAD Annex 10 Part 1. The ESMF was to
    be applied to all participating states to determine the procedures for ensuring compliance with the World
    Bank's safeguard policies. This generic ESMF was then applied to Guanajuato as the first pilot in the
    program. Part 2 of PAD Annex 10 contains the specific application of the ESMF to the Guanajuato
    project, and concludes that "SoG has a strong record of positive experiences in terms of demonstrating
    adequate implementation and enforcement of GoM laws; in many cases demonstrating beyond-
    compliance performance." The PAD identified areas where there are discrepancies between the GoM
    legal framework and World Bank safeguard policy requirements, and identified actions for addressing
    these gaps by strengthening state agencies. The Bank would require prior review and approval of any
    necessary environmental, indigenous peoples, or resettlement assessments or plans (EA, RAP, IPDPs
    and TORS) for the highest risk subproiects--as defined by a rigorous screening methodology, and also
    undertake post-review of less risky projects.
    Operational Manual: The general structure of the ESMF was reproduced with more detail in the
    Operational Manual, which was the key document for the state agencies. Annex 2 of the Operational
    Manual contained the detailed "Environmental and Social Management Manual" (referred to as MAGAS
    per its Spanish acronym) which laid out the principles and procedures for dealing with safeguard issues.
    The institutional arrangements for implementing the MAGAS are clearly described: the Ecology Institute
    of the State of Guanajuato (IEEG) was responsible for overall leadership of the program, and SDSH for
    social management. All subprojects under the program were to be screened, categorized, and reviewed
    by a special committee referred to as Environmental and Social Subcommittee (SAS-Subcomité
    Ambiental and Social for its acronym in Spanish) headed by IIEG, with participation by SDSH, SOP,
    CEAG, and IVEG. With respect to resettlement issues, the OM was weak in the following aspects: i)
    there was no resettlement policy framework; ii) the OM focuses on physical displacement and does not
    address land acquisition; and iii) there were no clear reporting mechanisms for land acquisition. These


                                                     7
    omissions in the MAGAS would later cause confusion and complicate supervision.
    Environmental Management Implementation The MAGAS proved to be a powerful instrument for
    guiding environmental management under the project and ensuring compliance with OP 4.01. With the
    exception of OP4.12, no other Bank safeguard policy was triggered. The SAS generally functioned well,
    projects were screened appropriately, and EAs were prepared and reviewed by the Bank as required.
    SAS was instrumental not only in ensuring compliance with MAGAS provisions, but also in fostering the
    adoption of more unified criteria across state agencies and cross-fertilization. The establishment of
    Environmental and Social Units (ESU) and mainstreaming of environmental and social safeguard
    procedures within each of the sector agencies is among the project's most significant outcomes. During
    the course of the project SAS screened approximately 548 projects, of which 18 required full-scale EAs
    which were reviewed by the Bank team. The Bank provided intense supervision and training on
    environmental management throughout the project, both through SAS and within the implementing
    agencies. Strengthening of the state environmental management system is among the project's most
    significant outcomes.
    Land Acquisition and Resettlement: The experience with resettlement and land acquisition (OP 4.12)
    was less straight forward. The responsibilities of the state agencies with respect to land acquisition and
    were not well defined in the MAGAS. SDSH did not play the leadership role in the SAS on social issues
    as originally envisioned. SOP was the only state agency involved in involuntary land acquisition, and
    was slow in incorporating social management into its activities. For Bank financed subprojects there
    was very limited physical resettlement, although there was significant small scale and partial land
    acquisition. In 2009, SOP provided a detailed account of all land acquisition activities financed with
    Bank funds. The report was prepared under the supervision of the Bank team and confirmed that all
    land was directly sold to SOP with no expropriation, and no problems were identified.4 In 2010 SOP
    conducted a comprehensive review and adopted new practices for the social management of its land
    acquisition and resettlement activities. The project played an important role in improving land
    acquisition and resettlement practices in SOP.

Financial Management ­ FM
    Local currency lending: The Bank entered into a currency swap on behalf of BANOBRAS, disbursing
    the loan proceeds in Mexican pesos to BANOBRAS, which, in turn, on-lent to Guanajuato. The
    repayment obligation for both BANOBRAS and the SoG is in Mexican pesos. Like all currency swaps,
    the transaction to eliminate currency risk resulted in a higher overall interest rate, which was passed on
    to BANOBRAS and then to SoG. In addition, currency fluctuations combined with rigidities in the loan
    agreement between the SoG and BANOBRAS and the corresponding approval by the SoG legislature
    5
      required the cancellation of US$2.8 million of the original loan agreement. Potentially, the original
    documents--state resolution and BANOBRAS-SOG lending agreement--could have been more flexibly



4
     Only the subprojects in the road transport sector, which were implemented by the SOP, required
involuntary land acquisition. The SOP implemented a total of 132 subprojects supported by FESI during
the period 2005-2009, of which 128 subprojects were civil works and, of these, only eight required right of
way acquisition (RAA) by the SOP. The eight subprojects requiring RRA affected a total of 174 lots, of
which all but three lots were only partially affected, and there was no expropriation--all land was sold
directly to SOP. Only two dwellings were affected, which were rebuilt on the residual land of the affected
property. The 8 subprojects did not affect any structures used for business purposes (Zevallos, 2009).
 
5
     In 2004, the SoG's congress passed a resolution authorizing a US$108 million loan, in the equivalent
amount of Mexican pesos, from the IBRD through BANOBRAS. In 2005, the SoG's legislature authorized
a loan of Mx$1,184,414,400 from BANOBRAS. Due to the devaluation of the Mexican currency in 2008,
BANOBRAS requested a loan cancellation of US$2,830,266, as it had already disbursed the full amount in
pesos to Guanajuato. Although the front-end and commitment fees had been paid for the entire loan amount,
SoG did not have access to the cancelled funds when it requested additional financing in 2009. It should be
noted that BANOBRAS paid the front end fee and commitment charges for USD$108 millon World Bank
loan, while SoG only paid the front end fees and commitment charges for the amount of the credit with
BANOBRAS MXN $1,184 million. According to the SoG, a new resolution from the SoG's legislature as
well as a modification of the Guanajuato-BANOBRAS loan agreement would have been required to use the
cancelled US$2.8 million.

                                                     8
    designed to minimize complications involved in exchange fluctuations and to allow the SoG to use the
    full US$108 million in Bank financing.
    Output-Based Disbursement Advances: As originally envisioned, state agencies would utilize
    national procurement procedures and the Bank would disburse against the achievement of agreed-upon
    OBD outcomes. However, during later stages of project preparation, the task team became aware that
    the Bank did not have an OBD policy in place and that such disbursement mechanism would not be
    allowed under the bank procurement procedures. (Only in 2007 did the Bank formally adopt an OBD
    policy.) A late-stage compromise was therefore reached whereby the World Bank would make advance
    payments against specific outputs, and the eligible expenses would subsequently be verified with
    individual contracts procured in accordance with Bank procedures. The SoG was responsible for
    reconciling disbursements against both eligible expenses and the output-based disbursement indicators
    (OBDIs) that were defined in the Loan Agreement. This uneasy and inelegant compromise generated a
    whole set of complications, including cumbersome administrative procedures that put an unnecessary
    burden on executing agencies and both banks.
    Financial management: During the project's implementation, there were no significant issues related
    to financial management. The rating for Financial Management was satisfactory throughout the life of
    the project.
Procurement
   National NCB Procurement Procedures: NCB works and goods contracts were procured using
   Mexico's federal law and the Standard Bidding Documents agreed upon by the federal government and
   the Bank. This introduced an important element of country systems into the procurement process.
   Procurement experience: During the project's implementation, there were no significant issues related
   to procurement, except for the later inclusion of water operators and municipalities as executing
   agencies under the loan's first amendment. The rating for Procurement was satisfactory or moderately
   satisfactory throughout the life of the project.
Compliance with LA Covenants
There were no non-standard covenants in the LA.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
At the state level, the project's completion is not expected to have any particular budgetary
impact on individual sectors given the non-additionality nature of the operation's financing at the
sector level. Each sector, however, will faces its own particular challenges in the post-completion
phase. SOP will need to increase its budget allocation for periodic maintenance and continue to
develop its capacity to use the HDM4 model as a planning tool. The municipal water utilities face
challenges in sustaining the operation and maintenance of the new wastewater treatment plants,
and CEAG will need to continue to promote management innovations and financing support for
water quality improvements and groundwater management. COVEG faces the most challenging
task in developing and implementing a new policy for low-income housing in Guanajuato.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project's objectives continue to be consistent with those of the State, as they support the
State's long term development plan. They are also consistent with those of the federal
government, as the decentralized approach to infrastructure management and development is still
high in the national agenda. Its focus also remains aligned to the priorities of the Bank's Country
Strategic Partnership 2008-2013 for Mexico, not only with regard to enhancing coverage, quality,
and cost efficiency of basic services and infrastructure, strengthening the capacity of subnational
government but also to ensuring environmental sustainability. In this area, the project's
experience in the implementation of environmental safeguard procedures and systems at the state
level, and the expansion in coverage of municipal wastewater treatment offer a potential model
that could be replicated in other states.


                                                   9
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

 PDO ­ Improve the provision and performance of infrastructure services (i.e., transport, water and
 sanitation, and low-income housing) in the State of Guanajuato.

Overall PDO achievement is considered to be satisfactory, although it varies among the various
sectors, ranging from highly satisfactory in the water and sanitation sector to moderately
unsatisfactory in the low-income housing sector. Performance in each sector can be summarized
as follows:
a) Transport Sector
PDO achievement in the transport sector is deemed moderately satisfactory. At the start of the
project SOP, like many public works agencies, was focused on new road construction with
limited capacity for pavement management. SOP technical and institutional capacity improved
substantially under the project in terms of pavement management and environmental and social
safeguards, amply exceeding original expectations.
Although some progress has been made, SOP continues to exhibit an attenuating bias towards
new works construction versus periodic maintenance activities. The economic analyses conducted
at the preparation and ICR stages indicate that road maintenance generally has large economic
returns, and should be a SOP priority. Periodic maintenance, which is the key to improving the
road network, continuously increased over the course of the project. However, it appears that it
was insufficient to demonstrably decrease the percentage of roads in poor conditions (14%). The
overall assessment is that the condition of the network remained constant and is generally in good
condition, in fact among the best among the Mexican states. Guanajuato is also the only state in
Mexico that has a fully functional HDM4 system.
Although the transport component did not achieve its primary objective: increasing the
percentage of roads in good or fair condition, the project promoted an increase in maintenance
activities and provides SOP with the tools and knowledge for improving pavement management.
In addition, the SoG was successful in rehabilitating 692 km of rural roads which has a strong
poverty impact. Specific achievements can be summarized as follows:
                               PDO achievement in the transport sector
PDO ­ To improve the provision and performance of the road infrastructure in the State of
      Guanajuato
Expanded coverage
Increase in the state's paved road network ­ Not a project indicator
 The state's paved road network increased from 2,642 km in 2004 to 2,844 in 2008--equivalent to 7.6
   percent increase.
 Although the expansion of the paved road network was not included in the PRF defined under the loan
   agreement, the PAD identifies specific--albeit inconsistent--targets: 600 km (pg. 8) and 300 km (pg. 32)
   of new roads. Actual increase was less than these targets--i.e., 201 km between 2004 and 2008.
 Most of the new construction has focused on urban improvements, such as bridges and by-passes.
Quality of service
Condition of the state network of paved roads ­ Constant
    The table below shows the condition of the state road network from 2005 through 2009. The condition
    of the state road network remained relatively stable with the percentage of roads in poor condition
    ranging from 9-14 percent throughout the life of the project. The overall road network is in reasonably




                                                    10
      good condition. As a comparison, in 2010 in the United States the percentage of roads in poor, fair, and
      good condition was estimated at 10%, 35%, and 55% respectively, with wide variations between the
      states.6

                                        2005          2006            2007     2008          2009
             Km in HDM4 System          2,300         2,354           2,372    2,437         2,437
            ConditionBased on IRI
                Good < 3.0 IRI           32%          44%             37%      45%           42%
               Fair:  3.0  4.5 IRI       54%          48%             49%      44%           44%
                Poor > 4.5 IRI           14%          9%              14%      12%           14%

     As a result of the project, SOP now has the technical capacity and tools to adequately manage the
     maintenance of its paved network.
     Conditions of the state's paved network failed to improve due to the relative lower importance given to
     conservation activities vis-à-vis the construction of new roads in SOP's annual budgets. Between 2006
     and 2009, conservation activities were allocated between 10 to 14 percent of SOP budget, although
     estimates based on the HMD4 model indicated that more than twice such budget was required to
     significantly improve the condition of the state's paved road network.
     Periodic maintenance, which is the key to improving the road network, continuously increased from 31
     km in 2005 to 259 km in 2009. However, the total length of the network that received periodic
     maintenance was only 425 km, which is well below the target of 800 km at appraisal stage. Targets for
     small-scale routine maintenance (2,250 kms per year) and large-scale rehabilitation (31.8 kms during the
     project) were achieved.

Rehabilitation and construction of rural roads ­ Achieved
 A total of 692 km of rural roads were rehabilitated between 2005 and 2008, equivalent to roughly 114
   percent of the original target of 608 km. Improved rural access has a strong poverty alleviation impact,
   given the higher concentration of poverty in rural areas. Rural road rehabilitation is undertaken through
   the Secretariat of Social and Human Development (SDSH) and not SOP.
Sounder environmental and social practices
Environmental and social safeguards ­ Achieved
 The substantial improvement of impact and social impact management within SOP was another
   important achievement under this component. Prior to the implementation of the project, only those
   transport projects receiving federal funding were subject to environmental impact assessment; and none
   were subject to social impact assessment. Under the project, an Environmental Coordination Unit (which
   oversees both environmental and social aspects) was permanently established within SOP, a Best
   Practices Manual of Environmental and Social Practices was developed and published, and SOP staff
   was trained. After the project, all SOP road projects are subject to environmental and social safeguards
   at various stages of the project cycle, according to the agency-wide procedures outlined in the
   Environmental and Social Management Manual that was published in 2009. SOP mobilized rather late
   on social issues related to land acquisition, despite repeated requests from the Bank. By the end of the
   project, however, SOP provided a full accounting of all land acquisition activities related to Bank financed
   contracts, and undertook a study on how to refine social management activities associated with land
   acquisition.

b) Water and Sanitation Sector
PDO achievement in the water and sanitation sector is deemed highly satisfactory: coverage of
water and sanitation services has increased substantially over the life of the project; efficiency
measures have continued; and enhanced environmental and social practices have been adopted.
Project financing was highly instrumental in supporting the institutional strengthening



6
    See Road Work Ahead (2010) by U.S. PIRG Education Fund, pg. 39.



                                                       11
components of CEAG's state-wide integrated water development plan. Specific achievements can
be summarized as follows:
                                PDO achievement in water and sanitation
PDO ­ To improve the provision and performance of water and sanitation services in the State of
      Guanajuato
Expanded coverage
Expanded water services ­ Achieved
 Access to water was expanded during the life of the project in both urban and rural areas.
 In urban areas, 115,523 people were provided with water connections during the life of the project, with
   the percentage of urban population with water connections increasing from 95.6 to 97 percent between
   2005 and 2009. This is higher than the national coverage of 94.3 percent for water services in urban
   areas in 2008 (CONAGUA, 2008).
 In rural areas, 38,127 people were provided with access to a water source during the life of the project,
   with the percentage of rural population having access to a water source increasing from 84.2 to 84.8
   percent between 2005 and 2009. This is higher than the national coverage of 76.8 percent for water
   services in rural areas in 2008 (CONAGUA, 2008).
Expanded sanitation services ­ Achieved
 Access to sanitation services was expanded during the life of the project in both urban and rural areas.
 In urban areas, 135,507 people were provided with sanitation connections during the life of the project,
   with the percentage of urban population with sewage connections increasing from 96.8 to 98.8 percent
   between 2005 and 2009. This is slightly higher than the national coverage of 93.9 percent for sanitation
   services in urban areas in 2008 (CONAGUA, 2008).
 In rural areas, 40,219 people were provided with access to sanitation during the life of the project, with
   the percentage of rural population with access to sanitation increasing from 62 to 63.2 percent between
   2005 and 2009. This is significantly than the national coverage of 61.8 percent for sanitation services in
   rural areas in 2008
Annual volume of organic waste removed - Achieved
 The actual outcome was largely in line with the anticipated target, as in 2009 municipal treatment plants
   removed 12,717 kg of organic load compared to a target of 12,750 kg/year. Moreover, actual
   performance is expected to improve in the medium term, as only four of the nine additional treatment
   plants are currently operational. The five remaining plans are expected to remove an additional 9,271 kg
   of organic load once they are operational, exceeding the original target by over 60 percent.
 Guanajuato is among Mexico's top states in wastewater treatment coverage, averaging 68 percent in
   municipal capitals in 2008--i.e., almost twice the national average of 35 percent (CONAGUA, 2010).
Enhanced efficiency
Improvement in physical efficiency ­ Not a project indicator
 Physical efficiency is defined as the ratio between water billed and water produced, and indicates the
   level of unaccounted-for water (UFW). This measure captures both physical losses, and commercial
   losses due to inefficient billing or illegal connections. Between 2005 and 2008, physical efficiency
   increased from 56.1 to 59.8 percent (i.e. indicating decreases in UFW from 43.9 percent to 40.2 percent)
   among the 46 municipalities in the state. Although this improvement is encouraging, UFW levels are still
   relatively high considering the degree of water scarcity and high cost of water production due to
   groundwater pumping costs in Guanajuato.
Improvement in the revenue/production ratio of water operators - Achieved
 The revenue/production ratio is a measure of efficiency that is defined as the revenue collected per cubic
   meter of water produced. Between 2005 and 2008, the revenue/production for the 36 municipalities with
   more than 20,000 inhabitants increased by 44 percent--i.e., from Mx$3.49/m3 to Mx$5.03/m3. This
   increase indicates improvements in physical and commercial management, as well as higher tariff levels
   in many municipalities.
Enhanced commercial management ­ Not a project indicator
 The ratio between payments in arrears/revenues decreased by 5.12 for the 36 municipalities with more
   than 20,000 inhabitants --from 17.7 percent to 12.6 percent between 2004 and 2006.
 The number of users in arrears also decreased by 7,203 during the same period--equivalent to a 4.7
   percent reduction.
 Although the water billed increased by almost a third, from 129.6 to 171.5 million m3 between 2005 and
                                                                                       3
   2008, the water produced in urban areas remained largely constant at 285 million m during the same
   period.


                                                    12
Improvement in the working ratio ­ Not a project indicator
 The working ratio is a measure of cost recovery that is defined as the ratio of total annual operational
   expenses to total annual pretax collections from billing and subsidies. Over the life of the project, the
   working ratio increased from roughly 0.91 in 2004 to 0.94 in 2008 for the 36 municipalities with more
   than 20,000 inhabitants. The increase in the working ratio indicates a negative trend, in which annual
   revenues are increasing at a slower pace than operating expenses despite substantial increases in
   electricity rates. The relatively high working ratio indicates that utilities are barely covering their
   operational costs, unable to cover investments costs, and remain in a financially precarious situation.
Increase in the unitary production cost of water ­ Not a project indicator
 The unitary production cost of water among the 46 municipalities in the state increased during the life of
   the project, from Mx$5.2/m3 to Mx$5.8/m3 between 2005 and 2008. Groundwater pumping costs are a
   major factor in the production of water, and increasing energy costs have a significant impact on the
   utility's financial situation.
Water resources management and planning
Improved water resources planning and management ­ Not a project indicator
 CEAG formulated a State Water Plan for the period 2006-2030 which provides the long-term framework
   for both water resources management and investments in hydraulic infrastructure, and water supply and
   sanitation.
 CEAG promoted "Water Culture Campaigns" that focused on viewing water and as important resource
   and also supported the formation of local groundwater management associations (Quotas) formed
   primarily by farmers.
Sounder environmental and social practices
Implementation of environmental and social safeguards: Achieved
The substantial improvement of impact and social impact management within CEAG was another important
achievement under this component. Specific achievements include:
 CEAG's newly adopted Internal Procedures makes it now compulsory to conduct impact assessment
   studies for new physical investments in the water sector (e.g., alternative water sources, aquifer
   recovery).
 The new Internal Procedures also established the functions of the (newly created) General Directorate of
   Social Affairs, which is responsible for promoting citizen participation in relation to water issues, including
   reforestation and environmental recovery initiatives, and to attend to social conflicts around water and
   sanitation services.
 A Best Practices Manual for Environmental Management of Physical Investments in the Water and
   Sanitation was also developed and adopted under the project. This Manual provides consistent criteria
   for environmental management at different stages of the project cycle for the various institutional actors.
 Extensive training in environmental and social management was provided under the project.



c) Low-income Housing
PDO achievement in the low-income housing component is deemed moderately unsatisfactory.
Some improvements were achieved during the life of the project. The most significant one was
the approval of a new housing legislation in 2008, which replaced the existing State Housing
Institute (IVEG) with a State Housing Commission (COVEG) and laid the grounds for a more
robust policy framework. In addition, there were some improvements in administrative efficiency,
including portfolio management, loan origination practices and customer service. Sounder
environmental and social practices were also put in place. However, these improvements have
failed to translate into expanded access to housing among the poor, as IVEG/COVEG's
performance has deteriorated in terms of both output and targeting. Addressing the agency'
financial fragility would still require substantial institutional and financial reengineering.
Disbursements under this component were almost nil between 2005 and 2008. The low-income
housing component was restructured in 2008 due to its poor performance. It was retained at the
request of the SoG to permit the Bank's continuous engagement in the ongoing policy dialogue
around the new housing law and to demonstrate that the state was implementing some sound state
housing programs targeted to the poor--i.e., a new sites-and-services program (Lotes con

                                                       13
Servicio) under COVEG and the `Piso Firme' Program under the SDSH. Overall, the
restructuring can be considered successful. The new Housing Law constitutes an improvement in
the policy framework. Also, the revised targets, which were designed to ensure that
IVEG/COVEG's performance did not deteriorate any further, were achieved in terms of outputs.
However, the financial innovations envisioned under the new sites-and-services program did not
materialize. The assessment is based on the performance after the restructuring, as disbursements
associated with the low-income housing component primarily took place during 2008 and 2009.
Specific achievements can be summarized as follows:
                                   PDO achievement in low-income housing
PDO ­ To improve the provision and performance of low-income housing services in the State of
      Guanajuato
Expanded production of low-income housing
Increased number of loans/subsidies- Not achieved
 IVEG/COVEG's production decreased substantially over the life of the project. Its overall production--
   incl. own- source financing as well as federal and third-party funds--decreased from 13,595 housing
   solutions in 2004 to only 3,427 in 2009--i.e., equivalent to a 75 percent reduction (see Figure 2).
   The reduction in the number of loans/subsidies could, of course, be interpreted positively to the extent
   that it reflects a change in strategy to avoid crowding out private financing for segments of the population
   that do not require subsidies. In this case, however, it merely reflects the rapid deterioration of
   IVEG/COVEG's financial position.

      Figure 2. IVEG/COVEG's overall production from own-source financing and other sources
                                            2004-2009
                  14,000


                  12,000


                  10,000

                               10,271
                   8,000
                                              8,677
                   6,000
                                                            5,215

                   4,000                                                                2,616
                                                                          2,486
                                        303
                                        256           423           292           353           225   1,109
                                                                                                              202
                   2,000                              137           480                         818
                                                                                  369                         194
                               2,765
                                              2,197         1,929         1,770         1,810         1,922
                     -
                               2004           2005          2006          2007          2008          2009
                   Institutional programs     Federal programs      Third-party programs    Promotion programs


         Source: FESI - Performance Assessment of the Low-Income Component (Méndez, 2009)

   Outputs in the low-income housing programs targeted to households earning four or less minimum
   wages that were included under the project--i.e., self-help housing, institutional links (Enganches
   Institucionales), sites-and-services, and progressive housing--decreased from 2,765 in 2004 to 1,922 in
   2009--i.e., equivalent to a 30 percent reduction. The drastic reduction in IVEG/COVEG's output is the
   result of the institution's poor financial and administrative practices, which became fully evident after the
   state stopped the annual transfers of funds for subsidized loans from 2003 onward.
   Actual outputs of individual low-income housing programs were well below the original target. Overall,
   the 2005-2009 outputs of IVEG's housing programs included a total of 9,628 loans and housing units,
   compared to the 14,043 outputs originally envisioned--i.e., equivalent to 69 percent achievement. While
   the target was exceeded in the case of the self-help housing program, those for the progressive housing,
   sites-and-services, and institutional links programs were not met, with a level of achievement at 82
   percent, 24 percent, and 23 percent, respectively (see Figure 3). As discussed below, only a fraction of
   these loans and housing units were reaching low-income households.




                                                              14
       Figure 3. Actual outputs vs. original targets for selected low-income housing programs
                                               2004-2009
          9,000
                               7,714
          8,000
                                                                  6,888
          7,000        6,525

          6,000
          5,000
          4,000
          3,000
          2,000                                                           1,559

          1,000                              276                                         354   289
                                                    66
            -
                    Self-help housing    Institutional links   Sites-and-services       Progressive
                                                                                          housing
                           Original target                                Actual 2005-2009
         Source: FESI - Performance Assessment of the Low-Income Component (Méndez, 2009)

   Targets revised during the 2008 restructuring were met. They were designed to ensure that
   IVEG/COVEG's performance did not deteriorate further during 2008 and 2009, as they reflected the
   already modest outputs corresponding to 2007. The downward trend was, in fact, reversed during 2008
   and 2009, with annual outputs increasing by 2 percent and 9 percent with respect to 2007, when IVEG's
   outputs in terms of low-income housing loans/subsidies was at its worse (see trend for institutional
   programs on Figure 2).
 Additional targets introduced at restructuring were also met or exceeded in terms of outputs. However,
   the enhanced financial mechanisms that were anticipated for the sites-and-services program have not
   yet materialized.
    The actual number of sites-and-services lots developed under the `Lotes Con Servicio" Program
       exceeded the target defined at restructuring by 10 percent. Of the 769 lots that were developed, 187
       have been already distributed among households with less than five times the minimum wage.
       Unfortunately, no financial intermediaries have so far participated in the financing of these lots as it
       was originally envisioned, partly as result of the shrinking in credit due to financial crisis in 2008.
       Instead, financing has been a mixed of federal and state subsidies, together with a loan from COVEG
       that includes a substantial implicit subsidies. Thus, although the physical targets were met, their
       financing reveals that some of the structural deficiencies in COVEG's financial practices remain
       unchanged.
    The `Piso Firme' Program was incorporated at restructuring at the request of the incoming state
       authorities. It provides concrete floors up to a maximum of 50 m2 for low-income households with dirt
       road. The target defined at restructuring was exceeded by 4 percent. The contribution of the project
       to the implementation of the `Piso Firme' Program is rather small, as its amounts to only 4,685 of the
       80,000 actions that were implemented under the program, which was administered by SDSH--i.e.,
       equivalent to only 6 percent of the total output. The Piso Firme component was added to the Project
       to highlight the innovative work the SoG was undertaking to provide housing solutions to the poorest
       of the poor.
Enhanced effectiveness
Enhanced targeting ­ Not achieved
 Targeting of IVEG/COVEG's low-income housing programs deteriorated during the life of the loan, with
   the percentage of loans granted to low-income households (i.e., those with an income less than 4 times
   the minimum wage) decreasing from 79 percent in 2004 to 42 percent for 2006-2007--i.e., equivalent to
   almost a 50 percent reduction.
 Targeting improved slightly after the restructuring, as roughly 54 percent of the outputs under COVEG's
   low-income housing programs were granted to low-income households during 2008 and 2009.
Enhanced efficiency
Improved portfolio management ­ Not a project indicator
 The proportion of the non-performing loans with respect to IVEG/COVEG's total portfolio decreased from

                                                         15
   37.1 percent to 27.9 percent between 2004 and 2008--equivalent to a 25 percent reduction (see Figure
   4).

                                          Figure 4. IVEG/COVEG portfolio in arrears vs. total portfolio
                                                                2004-2009
                                                    100


                    Percentage of total portfolio
                                                     80

                                                     60

                                                     40

                                                     20

                                                      0
                                                          2004      2005          2006       2007       2008
                                                          Active Portfolio         Portfolio in Arrears
         Source: FESI - Performance Assessment of the Low-Income Component (Méndez, 2009)

   The percentage of non-performing loans with four or more installments in arrears decreased from 67
   percent in 2004 to 9 percent in 2007--i.e., equivalent to roughly an 85 percent reduction.
 Unidentified payments decreased from Mx$30 million in 2004 to Mx$13 million in 2008--i.e., equivalent
   to roughly a 55 percent reduction.
 IVEG/COVEG's financial statements were externally reviewed for the first time in 2009.
 These improvements came as a result of a portfolio review and the depuration of IVEG/COVEG's
   databases, improved loan origination practices, the incorporation of new technologies, staff training and
   other actions that were supported under the project.
 There is still, however, considerable room for further improvement of COVEG's administrative efficiency,
   including targeting of subsidies, loan origination practices, cost recovery, and portfolio management.
 Customer service also improved substantially as result of the implementation of a one-stop service
   model (`Ventanilla única') supported under the project.
Enhanced policy framework
Development and implementation of a long-term low-income housing strategy: Partially achieved
 Substantial progress was done toward the development of a low-income housing strategy. Its basic
   tenets are embedded in the new Housing Law that was approved in 2008, including: the promotion of
   private sector participation in low-income housing; aligning targeting strategies at the state and federal
   levels and explicitly recognizing COVEG's ability to grant subsidies to the poor; and establishing the
   state's housing information system.
 However, improvements in the policy framework have not yet been implemented. There is still much
   room for the improvement of COVEG's financial management, including making subsidies more
   transparent and promoting private sector participation.
Sounder environmental and social practices
Implementation of environmental and social safeguards: Achieved
Environmental and social impact management within IVEG/COVG has improved substantially as a result of
the project. Specific achievements include:
 An Environmental and Social Unit (ESU) was established in 2009 and permanently inserted into
    COVEG's organizational structure in 2010.
 A Manual of Environmental and Social Best Practices for the Housing Sector published in 2010. The
    incorporation of environmental and social management procedures into COVEG's Internal Procedures is
    still pending.
 ESU staff received substantial training in environmental and social management.


d) Cross-Sector Institutional Strengthening


                                                                             16
This component supported overall project PDO achievement by strengthening the state-wide
environmental management system, improving procurement efficiency through establishment of a
standardized e-procurement system, and promoting public participation and transparency. Efforts
to improve state-wide strategic planning were less successful. The overall achievement rating for
this component is deemed satisfactory. Specific achievements are summarized in detail in Annex
2.
e) Project Overall Achievement
The level of achievement varies among individual components, as follows: i) moderately
satisfactory for Component A ­ Transport; ii) highly satisfactory for Component B ­ Water and
Sanitation; iii) moderately unsatisfactory for Component C and E­ Low-income Housing; and iv)
satisfactory for Component D ­ Institutional Strengthening. The overall project achievement
rating is considered satisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency
                                                  Efficiency
Economic Efficiency
An economic analysis was conducted for the activities financed by Bank funds in the transport and water
sectors, which represent 92 percent of the total loan amount. The economic analysis was not performed for
the low-income sector given that: i) there were substantial hidden subsidies in the loans being granted by
the state's housing authority that prevented from determining a clear cost structure, and; ii) the low-income
sector represented roughly 4 percent of the total loan amount.

The transport economic analysis consisted of using the HDM4 model to calculate the economic rate of
return for 133 kms of roads that were subject to periodic maintenance (patching and overlays) or
rehabilitation under the project. The 133 kms of road section were selected to be representative of the total
of 425 kms of periodic maintenance financed under the project. The calculated economic rate of return was
97%, which shows the investments in road maintenance have an extremely high rate of return, and the
activities financed under the project were economically viable. The main shortcoming of the overall transport
program is that SOP did not invest enough, from a sector perspective, in periodic maintenance--the target
value was 800 km. In addition to road maintenance activities, the project financed the
construction/rehabilitation of approximately 21 bridges/overpasses. Due to time and resource constraints,
the ICR did not conduct an economic analysis of these investments, but in general investments removing
transportation bottlenecks, such as bridges, generally have high rates of return.

The economic evaluation for the water component consisted of estimating the health and welfare benefits of
an expansion in water supply and sanitation services, and yielded an estimated an economic rate of return
of 25%. Unlike the transport investments, it is generally much more difficult to accurately estimate benefits of
expanded water and sanitation services, so the 25% rate of return for the water component should
interpreted as an indicative result. More importantly, it is the responsibility of the government to ensure
adequate water and sanitation services. Water supply coverage in Guanajuato is 97% in urban areas and
85% in rural areas; the corresponding figures for sanitation are 99% and 63%. CEAG consistently adopted a
the least cost approach for improving and expanding water and sanitation services, by working with
municipal operators to develop strategic investment plans that prioritized investments to ensure efficient
investments.

Based on the partial economic evaluation of the project and the rapid implementation of the transport and
water components, the overall efficiency is considered substantial.

Financial Rate of Return
The project's financial rate of return was not estimated at appraisal.




                                                      17
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
                                          Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory
The operation has effectively supported the development and/or implementation of key sector strategies in
the SoG. Achievements are particularly noteworthy in the case of the water and sanitation sector, where the
project provided support to the state-wide development plan of the state's water agency: coverage of water
and sanitation services was expanded substantially in urban and rural areas, commercial and physical
efficiency was enhanced among water operators that implemented institutional strengthening plans under
the program, and overall technical and institutional capacity was enhanced in both CEAG and municipal
water operators.

Sector performance also improved in the transportation sector, in which the network of the state's paved
roads increased and SOP also increased its periodic maintenance activities--although not at a pace
sufficient to demonstrably decrease the percentage of roads in poor condition. The road network in
Guanajuato, however, is in reasonably good shape with only 14% of the roads considered in poor
condition--among the highest in Mexico. SOP's technical capacity in the area of pavement management
and planning also improved substantially under the project, and Guanajuato is the first state in Mexico to
have a functional HDM4 model.

Achievements in the low-income housing sector are modest. While the policy framework is now much more
robust after the passage of a new housing law in 2008, the performance state's housing agency COVEG
deteriorated substantially over the life of the project in terms of both coverage and targeting. While there
were some modest improvements in portfolio management and loan origination practices, major reforms are
still needed in the housing sector, particularly in terms of making subsidies explicit and enhancing their
targeting.

The implementation and mainstreaming of environmental and social safeguard procedures in the three
participating sector agencies--i.e., CEAG, SOP and COVEG--as well as the strengthening of the state's
environmental agency IEEG and the state-wide environmental management framework, also figures
prominently among the operation's main achievements. Introduction of a state-wide e-procurement system
helped to improve efficiency and promote transparency.

The overall rating for the project is a combination of relevance (high), achievement (satisfactory), and
efficiency (substantial), and is deemed to be satisfactory. Based upon the achievement variable for each
component, financing percentages, and using the scale listed below, the overall achievement rating is
calculated as 4.7, which is closer to Satisfactory than Moderately Satisfactory.

                                          ICR Scale Per Guidelines
 Highly            Unsatisfactory     Moderately         Moderately       Satisfactory      Highly
 Unsatisfactory                       Unsatisfactory     Satisfactory                       Satisfactory
 1                 2                  3                  4                5                 6

                             Rating                     Loan                              Weighted
                                      Value             Amount     %                      Rating Value
Roads                        MS                     4   59.2                      56.2%             2.2
Water and sanitation         HS                     6   38.2                      36.3%             2.2
Low-income housing           MU                     3   4.3                        4.1%             0.1
Institutional Development    S                      5   3.6                        3.4%             0.2
Overall                      S                          105.2                    100.0%             4.7

As stressed at the ICR workshop, the Project's greatest impact is related to institutional development. There


                                                       18
were important advances with respect to strengthening the state's public administration system, particularly
with respect to environmental and social management, and procurement. In many Bank-financed projects,
infrastructure may be constructed, but progress on institutional development is often less advanced. In this
Project, institutional development was significant and remarkable, particularly given the initial design
complications and demanding coordination requirements. The institutional development achievements
reinforce the overall rating of Satisfactory and reflect the view that, in this case, the overall Project impact is
greater than the mere sum of the component parts.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
                            Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
a) Poverty impacts, gender aspects, and social development
Poverty impacts: The operation adopted an indirect targeting approach in the transport and water and
sanitation sectors, and direct targeting of low-income beneficiaries in the case of housing.
 Roads: Improved rural access has a strong poverty alleviation impact, given the higher concentration of
    poverty in rural areas. In 2000, 67 percent of the rural population was below the poverty line compared
    to 33 percent for the urban population.
 Water and sanitation: Those living in poor neighborhoods are the likely beneficiaries of expanded access
    to water and sanitation in urban areas.
    By expanding access to water and sanitation services in rural areas, the project is also likely to have had
    a strong poverty alleviation impact. Access to water and sanitation services in rural areas is roughly half
    that of urban areas--i.e., only 42 percent of the rural population has access to water supply and 35
    percent has access to sanitation services, while 78 percent of the urban population has water and
    sanitation connections. Roughly one-fourth of expanded access to water and sanitation services during
    the life of the project was in rural areas. Although this percentage is below the rural share of the state's
    population--33 percent in 2000--the stronger emphasis on urban services can be justified on efficiency
    basis (i.e., lower unitary costs in water services), public health concerns, and the sheer numbers of poor
    urban dwellers. It is also worth noting that access to water and sanitation services in rural areas is
    higher in the SoG than for the country as a whole--i.e., 84.8 vs. 76.8 percent for access to water and
    63.2 vs. 61.8 percent for access to sanitation.
 Low-income housing: In the short and medium term, the project had little impact in improving access to
    housing among the poor, as there were no increases in COVEG's production of low-income housing and
    its targeting to low-income beneficiaries did not improved. The enhanced policy framework and
    administrative practices supported under the project set the ground for potential improvements in the
    long run.
    The `Piso Firme' program implemented by the SDSH has multiple proved benefits, including major health
    improvement among the beneficiary population, children in particular. However, it is difficult to attribute
    these benefits to the project given its small share of the overall program output.
Gender aspects: The operation can be expected to have had a particular impact on women and children, to
the extent that these groups are often responsible for water collection in the absence of a water connection.
Social development: The operation provided support to the state's efforts to enhance transparency,
participation, and access to information. These efforts were crucial in addressing the concerns of some
NGOs regarding the adoption of country systems. Specific actions in this area included:
 Intense consultation with civil society through consultation processes that involved more than 30 NGOs,
    academicians, and representatives from government-organized consultative bodies. These consultations
    were very successful in eliciting community input on the consultations strategy around FESI, access to
    information strategy and the ESMF.
 The implementation of a web portal that provided public access to information related to the project
    identified in conjunction with civil organizations.
 The SDSH undertook an ambitious survey to measure the customer's satisfaction services provided by
    state agencies. Data from this study will be used as the baseline for comparison with future surveys.
(b) Institutional change and strengthening
The project had a substantial impact on capacity building and institutional strengthening, including:
 Roads: The implementation of the HMD4 multi-year pavement management model was an important
   achievement under this component. While the initial development of the state's HDM4 system was
   initially contracted out to the University of Guanajuato, the HDM4 system is being managed and
   operated within SOP by technical staff that has been trained and permanently hired for that purpose.
   Annual budget requests for conservation activities are now based on the HMD4 model. SOP has
   assigned the budgetary resources needed to continue to strength HMD4 model and its coverage. By
   2008, 84 percent of the total state's paved road network was included in the model.

                                                        19
    Water and sanitation: The operation provided support to CEAG's efforts to enhance efficiency among
    water operators, with roughly a third of them implementing institutional strengthening plans aimed at
    enhancing the physical, commercial, and overall efficiency. The operation also supported actions aimed
    at enhancing the management of water resources, including: developing an integrated water
    management system, improving the efficiency in measurement of hydrologic cycles, and fostering more
    participative forms of water management. For example, CEAG has supported the creation of Water and
    Sanitation Committees that have an important say in water management issues. Likewise, to address
    rural communities' water and sanitation needs in a sustainable manner, CEAG has provided technical
    and social support to the creation of Rural Water Boards, which are community organizations in charge
    of the system. Finally, CEAG itself was significantly strengthened under the operation, in areas such as
    staff training, cross-fertilization activities, tariff design, and the development of a water and sanitation
    information systems. It also helped build up capacity in municipalities and municipal water operators.
 Low-income housing: The project contributed to the policy discussion that eventually led to the approval
    of the new housing law in 2008, emphasizing the need to improve the agency's targeting and define a
    transparent subsidy strategy. The operation was also instrumental in supporting improvements in
    portfolio management.
 Safeguards: As mentioned earlier, the operation had a substantial impact in mainstreaming
    environmental and social safeguard procedures in SOP and CEAG, as well as COVEG. Likewise, the
    operation supported the institutional strengthening of the state environmental agency (Instituto de
    Ecología del Estado de Guanajuato ­ IEEG), helping to enhance environmental safeguards procedures
    and implement them in a consistent manner at the state level.
 Transversal systems: The operation also provided support to the further development of the state's e-
    procurement system, public investment evaluation and prioritization, and multi-year planning. In these
    areas, however, the Bank's support was mainly financial, with limited TA.
c) Pilot Project To Test New Bank Procedures and Mechanisms for Sub-national Lending
 The following key new approaches were tested under the project, and their results are summarized as
follows:

    Currency SWAP: Before the project, Bank dollar funds for subnational loans would be transferred to the
    Federal Government (through FOAEM), which would then convert to pesos and on-lend to BANOBRAS
    at significantly higher rate. BANOBRAS would then add on a commission to the sub-national entity. The
    end result was a much higher cost of financing for the sub-national entity making Bank loans
    uncompetitive, The currency SWAP, the first in Mexcio, helped address this issue.
    Output Based Disbursement: The original project concept called for the state to use its own
    procurement procedures and Bank disbursement would be based on outputs. This proved infeasible
    under Bank policies, and therefore an alternative mechanism was developed whereby the Bank
    provided advances based on outputs, but the State still needed to follow Bank procurement procedures
    and reconcile advances with eligible expenses. To some extent, this facilitated financial management
    for BANOBRAS and SoG, which did not have to quickly document eligible expenses. The disbursement
    indicators used for advances were not very useful for measuring sector performance.
     Country Safeguard Systems: The approach for environmental management developed under the
     project proved to be highly successful in strengthening the state environmental management system
     while meeting the requirements of the Bank's safeguard policies. With respect to land acquisition, the
     decision was made to avoid using Bank finance for projects which involved household resettlement, and
     limit financing to road projects with only partial land acquisition. SOP implemented the land acquisition
     in compliance with Mexican law and without any identified problems, and improved its social
     management practices. It is unclear whether the country system approach would have been able to
     deal with complex resettlement activities and still meet the letter and spirit of the Bank's resettlement
     policy (OP 4.12).Sector-Wide Assistance Programs(s): As noted in this ICR, this approach was
     successfully applied to the water component, but was less successful for the transport and housing
     components--mainly because of original project design flaws.
Pilot Project for a World Bank-BANOBRAS national program to support Mexican States
    The Guanajuato project was the first and only project under the World Bank-BANOBRAS' Program, and
    the approach has not been replicated in other states. Although there are many potential reasons for the
    lack of additional projects, two factors are particularly important: i) World Bank-BANOBRAS financing
    has not been particularly attractive or competitive given other funding options; and ii) the added
    complexity of working with two large and bureaucratic institutions such as the World Bank and
    BANOBRAS. The mechanisms discussed in point c above, were generally not adequate to streamline
    implementation and avoid additional client transaction costs.



                                                      20
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
A stakeholder workshop was held on June 15-16, 2010 and the agenda and list of participants is
presented in Annex 6. Approximately 50 people attended the two-day event, including high level
representatives from BANOBRAS and the SoG, as well as representatives from each of the
participating state agencies.
Each of the World Bank sector specialists presented the ICR findings from a sectoral perspective,
and the Bank ICR consultant (Cecila Zanetta) presented the overall assessment. The SoG played
an important role in the evaluation process by contracting its own consultants to prepare an
analysis of each sector, as well as an overall Project evaluation. The SoG consultants responsible
for the overall evaluation (Grupo Espacio Siete) also presented their results at the workshop.
The general consensus was that the Project was highly successful, particularly with respect to
institutional development. BANOBRAS, the SoG, and the sector agencies strongly felt that the
most important legacy and accomplishment of the project was strengthening the state's public
administration system, particularly with respect to environmental and social management,
procurement, policy formulation, and planning. In addition, the SoG was able to overcome the
initial design complications--engineered primarily by the World Bank and BANOBRAS, and
transition to a new State administration in 2006, while at the same time consistently improving
Project performance. The SoG evaluation consultant, Grupo Espacio Siete, indicated that they
will evaluate the Project as a clear success with many advances and lessons learned.
During discussions it was pointed that that specific roles for the World Bank and BANOBRAS
were not clearly defined up-front and this generated some confusion and false expectations during
implementation, particularly with respect to the level of sectoral technical assistance that
BANOBRAS could provide. Based upon the workshop discussions, both BANOBRAS and SoG
presented the final versions of their comments on June 18, 2010 which are presented in Annex 7.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
                  Factors Affecting the Sustainability of the Project's Achievements
Rating: Moderate
The achievements of the project are likely to be sustained in the medium and long terms. Several factors
contribute to their sustainability, while other factors introduce some level of uncertainty, including:
 Transport ­ Moderate risk
   Achievements in institutional strengthening in network management utilizing the HMD4 model and
   environmental and social safeguards procedures are likely to be maintained. These areas are staffed
   with well qualified, permanent SOP personnel. Achievements in terms of ensuring adequate levels of
   maintenance of the state's paved network are more uncertain, as SOP authorities tend to under-allocate
   resources for conservation activities, periodic maintenance and rehabilitation in particular.
 Water and sanitation ­ Moderate risk
   Achievements in the water and sanitation component are likely to be maintained, as they are clearly
   aligned to CEAG's own vision of the sector, as reflected in the agency's state-wide hydraulic plan for
   2006-2012 (i.e., Plan Estatal Hidráulico de Guanajuato 2006-2012) and are fully consistent with the
   Water Law enacted in 2000. The main barrier to further enhancing institutional capacity of both CEAG's
   and municipal water operators is the agency's limited access to discretionary funds that could be used
   for institutional strengthening activities. At the local level, although municipal water companies have
   generally improved their operational and financial performance during the project, many of them still
   remain in a precarious financial condition and have significant scope to improve performance. The
   additional responsibility of collecting, transferring, treating and disposing of municipal wastewater will
   impose additional burdens that will require enhanced performance.
 Low-income housing ­ High to substantial


                                                    21
   Although progress was made toward the development of a low-income housing strategy, particularly in
   terms of the approval the new housing law, its actual implementation in the short and medium terms is
   unlikely. Substantial reengineering of COVEG's financial and administrative practices is still pending and
   COVEG authorities have not yet demonstrated a strong commitment toward the adoption and
   implementation of a transparent subsidy strategy.
   State-Level Institutional strengthening ­ Low to moderate risk
   Enhanced transparency in terms of access to public information as well as consultation mechanisms is
   likely to be sustained during the current administration, as it is largely the result of the state authorities'
   own commitment to the principles of good governance. The same is true for efforts to enhance financial
   administration, e-procurement, and multi-year planning efforts, which have strong ownership of the
   corresponding agencies.
   Environmental and social safeguards ­ Moderate risk
   Achievements in terms of environmental and social safeguard procedures in SOP, CEAG and COVEG
   are likely to be maintained, as the Environmental and Social Units (ESUs) have been permanently
   inserted into their organizational structure and procedures have been mainstreamed. In the case of
   environmental aspects, IEEG is likely to continue to play an enhanced role in ensuring sector-wide
   compliance with existing state and federal environmental regulations. There is, however, more
   uncertainty that a state-wide approach would be continued in the case of social safeguards, as
   supporting legislation is less robust, particularly at the state level, and the SDSH is less likely to play a
   proactive role in this area.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
                                             Bank's Performance
a. Bank's Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
 The performance of the Bank in assisting the Borrower in identifying, preparing and appraising the
   operation is deemed moderately unsatisfactory. The project's design was highly innovative--perhaps in
   excess--and its scope was overly ambitious, thus resulting in design weaknesses that translated into a
   highly complex implementation process. Although the preparation effort built upon the solid sector work
   provided by the 2002 Public Expenditures Review, the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) did not
   succeed in identifying some of the key sector issues and risks, particularly in low-income housing. The
   PAD and Operational Manual did not provide clear guidance on land acquisition issues which would later
   complicate supervision. Likewise, there were inconsistencies within the PAD and the Loan Agreement in
   terms of the Results Framework, which, together complicated project monitoring and supervision.Finally,
   some of the original project innovations, such as output based disbursement and use of country
   safeguard systems, were not fully aligned with Bank policies and needed to be tweaked during project
   preparation. The decision to promote an innovative project that pushed the boundaries of Bank-wide
   policies was supported by regional LAC management and was not the sole initiative of the task team.
 Considering the high visibility of the project as a pilot experience in the utilization of country systems and
   its potential replication in other Mexican states, a tighter quality control at entry was warranted.
b. Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
 The project was well supervised, with regular field missions and in-depth supervision reports. Sector
   managers followed project implementation closely, as reflected by their detailed comments in ISRs and
   PSRs. A wide array of specialists was included in the supervision missions, contributing valuable
   expertise and TA on environmental and social safeguards, communications and civil engagement,
   financial management, and procurement. A strong emphasis on safeguards was sustained throughout
   the life of the project and, whenever potential weaknesses were detected, they were addressed swiftly
   and in depth. The Bank made a sustained effort to develop an information framework that would ensure
   transparency and to engage the civil society in consultation processes, including NGOs that were critical
   of the project.
 The project's supervision was expensive. Given the project's high visibility as a pilot experience in the
   implementation of country systems, management agreed that the supervision team had to give priority to
   the supervision needs over budgetary considerations.
 Despite the substantial allocation of supervision resources, including quality Bank staff, the project's
   supervision remained a challenge as a result of several factors, including: i) original weaknesses in the
   project's design, which eventually translated into implementation obstacles; ii) the broad scope of the


                                                      22
   project, which involved three infrastructure sectors as well as several state-wide systems; iii) the
   exceptional depth of supervision needs that resulted from the adoption of a SWAp approach and the
   utilization of country systems; and iv) the added operational complexity that resulted from having multiple
   executing agencies and a financial intermediary. The latter is particularly important if the Bank is to
   continue to work with BANOBRAS.
   Senior TTLs were always assigned to the project. There was, however, a high rotation due to retirements
   and promotions with four TTLs over the course of project. Incoming TTLs were faced with an unusually
   steep learning curve as a result of the complexity of the project. Moreover, TTLs had multiple roles, as
   they were responsible for highly demanding coordination functions and, at certain periods, for the
   supervision of one sector as well. There was strong continuity from the Bank's staff sector specialists,
   with no changes in the transportation and housing experts, and only one change for the water and
   environmental sectors. The task team's social team varied considerably during implementation, which
   contributed to supervision complications rooted in unclear requirements for land acquisition in the
   Operational Manual.
   There were substantial delays in the project's restructuring, which was identified at MTR (Oct. 2006) but
   was not completed until mid-2008. During the project's restructuring, the low-income housing sector was
   retained despite its poor performance at the request of the SoG to permit the Bank's continuous
   engagement in the policy dialogue and to demonstrate that the state was implementing some sound
   state housing programs targeted to the poor--i.e., the sites-and-services program under COVEG and
   the `Piso Firme' Program under the SDSH.
   The Bank task team was successful in obtaining the needed cross-support, not only for areas that are
   transversal within the Bank (i.e., environmental safeguards) but also from other networks. Specifically,
   the project assigned substantial resources to PREM support in the areas of civil consultation
   mechanisms and access to information.
   Project ratings may have been too optimistic at times--for example, the PDO performance remained
   Satisfactory despite the unsatisfactory performance of the housing component during part of 2006 and
   2007. The fact that this component represented less than 7 percent of the loan amount and performance
   in the other sectors was satisfactory or better may have justified the overall Satisfactory rating.
c. Justification of Rating for Overall Bank's Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
 Overall, the Bank's performance is considered moderately satisfactory. Despite the considerable efforts
   made by the supervision team and the support provided by management, the complexity and the
   weakness of the original design complicated supervision and implementation by the implementing
   agencies.
                                     Borrower's Performance
BANOBRAS
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
    BANOBRAS was the main borrower and acted as a financial intermediary. The original project design
    called for BANOBRAS to play the lead project supervision role with support from the Bank supervision
    team. This expectation was probably unrealistic, and goes well beyond normal BANOBRAS practice as
    a financial intermediary. BANOBRAS also participated in the project design and thus also is allocated
    some of the responsibility for the quality at entry problems. BANOBRAS provided high quality and
    indispensible financial management and procurement support for the project, but did not provide
    significant technical assistance on institutional development, planning, and safeguard issues as
    envisioned in the Operations Manual. BANOBRAS played an important role in promoting the
    importance of safeguard issues in the Project, and supporting safeguard recommendations from the
    Bank task team. BANOBRAS also had a dual supervision layer consisting of the BANOBRAS state
    delegation and the the headquarter office which aggravated an already complex institutional
    arrangement. It should be noted that BANOBRAS dedicated more resources and attention to the project
    than a normal project, but the requirements were also much greater. If the Bank continues to work with
    the Mexican states via BANOBRAS, it is critical to better define ex-ante the responsibilities of the two
    banks in terms of supervision.
                                      Sub-Borrower's Performance
a. Government's Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
 State authorities of both administrations exhibited a remarkable commitment, providing strong political
   support and the resources needed for the implementation of the project. The sustained level of support
   was a key factor in the project's successful implementation.


                                                     23
   The excellent performance of the State's Secretariat of Finance and Administration (SFA), which was
   responsible for coordinating the project at the state level, was critical to the successful implementation of
   the project. It succeeded in coordinating the efforts of the multiple executing agencies and conducting
   communications with the Banks. It also fulfilled other responsibilities, including: daily project
   management; all administrative project requirements; the preparation of annual procurement plans
   (PACs) as well as the implementation of its own sub-component. The SFA allocated the needed
   institutional resources needed to support its coordination functions, including a robust project
   administration system. Moreover, the project received the close attention from top SFA authorities
   throughout the entire implementation period, who showed a remarkable willingness to cooperate with the
   Banks and to accommodate their multiple requirements. Without their steadfast support as well as a
   genuinely cooperative attitude, the project would have been jeopardized.
   The State government, through SFA, also undertook an extensive project evaluation exercise which
   consisted of an analysis of each sector, combined with a global project evaluation. The data from these
   evaluations formed the foundation for the Bank's ICR.
b. Implementing Agencies' Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
 Performance was uneven across the various agencies, generally in line with the overall level of
   achievement at the sector level. Specifically:
    CEAG's performance was highly satisfactory, with the agency bringing to the project a clear strategic
       vision for the sector, a consistent implementation strategy, and the technical and institutional
       resources needed to implement it.
    SOP's performance was satisfactory. It showed a strong commitment toward enhancing
       environmental and social practices and applying them to all road investments. Likewise, it claimed
       full ownership of the HDM4 planning model and developed the technical capacity to fully capitalize on
       this tool.
    IVEG/COVEG's performance was the weakest of all three sectors as a result of several factors,
       including lack of ownership, poor timing (the institution was in flux, amidst a reform process), and
       institutional weaknesses.
    The IEEG played a strong leadership role in environmental issues. The SDSH, which was
       responsible for providing leadership in social issues, was less proactive. However, it had a stellar
       performance in the implementation of the `Piso Firme' Program as well as consultation processes.
 It is important to underscore the willingness of SFA, CEAG, IVEG/COVEG, and SOP to undertake in-
   depth ex-post evaluations as part of the ICR preparation. These evaluations required substantial
   resources, both in terms of staff time and financial resources on the part of the SoG and each of the
   state agencies. They have proved invaluable in complementing the project's weak PRF and, therefore,
   allowing a more complete ICR evaluation.
c. Justification of Rating for Overall Sub-Borrower's Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
 Overall, the Sub-Borrower's performance is deemed satisfactory for the reasons stated above.

6. Lessons Learned
     Lessons Learned from the Implementation of Mexico's Decentralized Infrastructure Project
Lessons of wide general application
   Direct IBRD-support for infrastructure at the sub-national level in Mexico is both feasible and
   important. The generally strong performance of the SoG agencies in the Project indicates that at least
   some Mexican states have the capacity to successfully implement Bank-financed projects. The original
   premise of the overall program design is valid--infrastructure support to the states is both important and
   feasible; thus, the Bank should continue to pursue the sub-national infrastructure agenda in Mexico,
   providing technical support and financing to state and municipal governments. However, a new paradigm
   for delivering this type of support needs to be formulated to be more efficient.
   Multi-sector SWAp operations may not be practical. They require significant effort to design and
   supervise, and potentially dilute the Bank's ability to provide good policy advice and technical assistance.
   Moreover, SWAps require an in-depth understanding of the sector and a team of Bank specialists to
   engage in policy issues within each sector, which was generally missing in the Project due to resource
   constraints.
   OBD may not work well with SWAp operations: OBD provides a useful tool for facilitating
   implementation of well-defined limited projects, as local procurement procedures deemed acceptable to

                                                      24
   the Bank can be used and there is a focus on outcomes. When an OBD approach is used for large-scale
   sector-wide operations it is more difficult to find output indicators that both meet the requirements of the
   Bank's OBD policy and are useful for measuring broad sector performance.
   Adopting country systems is a high-risk high-reward proposition: Adopting country systems for
   environmental and social safeguards was a risky venture, which brought substantial questioning and
   scrutiny on the part of international and local non-government organizations (NGOs). This approach,
   however, paid off and enhanced environmental and social management practices within both individual
   agencies and the state as a whole figure prominently among the legacies of the project. This success,
   however, was contingent upon the strong commitment on the part of the state's authorities as well as
   Bank's task team to ensure that the implementation of country systems was up to par with the Bank's
   own standards. In addition, there were significant effort from the Bank and the SoG to seek community
   input and disclose information.
   Country Systems and Resettlement. SOP demonstrated the ability to successfully implement land
   acquisition in accordance with Mexican regulations and practice. The Project helped SOP create more
   efficient and equitable procedures for land acquisition and physical resettlement, but still within the
   context of Mexican law. Based on this pilot experience in Guanajuato, it is clear that there would be
   significant challenges in using country systems to meet both the letter and spirit of OP 4.12 for large-
   scale physical resettlement, which did not occur under the project.
   Environmental Management at two levels. The Project underscored the importance of not only
   improving sector environmental management (transport, water, and housing) but also working with the
   environmental agency responsible for regulating the sectors. The Project leaves the state with a legacy
   of good practice at the sector and state level--both are necessary to sustain the environmental
   management system.
   Distinguishing form from substance. This operation received an extraordinary amount of attention by
   Bank management and the Board because of its proclaimed innovations. Most of these innovations
   (OBD, SWAp, National Program, Country Systems) were internal Bank preoccupations barely
   understood by the client at the state and municipal level. In substance, the Project was an infrastructure
   and institutional development project, where Bank procedures were utilized for specific investments but
   there was also attention and effort directed to improving certain aspects of overall sector performance
   and building state capacity as well.
Project-specific lessons
At World Bank/BANOBRAS Level:
 It is important to balance the program- and the project-specific dimensions. In the case of this
   operation, the challenges of designing a program to be replicated in other Mexican states detracted
   attention from state- and sector-specific issues during preparation and contributed to a confusing and
   inconsistent PAD. Likewise, the state was at times not fully included in the communications between the
   Bank and BANOBRAS.
 A robust Project Result Framework should be defined during preparation and appraisal. The lack
   of a robust PRF was clearly one of the weaknesses of this operation, which could never be fully
   overcome. Disbursement indicators brought additional confusion, as they were interpreted as outcome
   indicators by state actors. In addition, there was a fundamental disconnect between the PRF in the PAD
   and the PRF associated with the Loan Agreement and Operational Manual. Although the Bank's
   mechanisms to ensure Quality at Entry (QAE) have undoubtedly improved since this operation was
   approved, it is important to continue to emphasize the importance of developing a sound PRF as part of
   preparation activities.
 SWAp-type projects that included multiple sectors require special supervision resources. These
   projects are, of course, more costly to supervise given that they require a larger supervision team with a
   wider array of expertise. They also require a different role for the TTL, with emphasis on organizational,
   communicational and management aspects rather than, or in addition to, sector-specific expertise.
 Political cycles are an important variable. The operation was originally envisioned to coincide with the
   2000-2006 sexenio. However, the extensive preparation and approval times introduced substantial
   delays, extending implementation well into the following sexenio. Fortunately, in the case of Guanajuato,
   the incoming administration continued provide strong political support to the project, but changes in
   administration clearly pose a risk on projects such as this that are so dependent on top political.
 When utilizing local currency lending mechanisms, it is important to consider using legal
   documents that are flexible enough to permit full disbursement of the loan proceeds regardless
   of currency fluctuations. Potentially, the legal documents--i.e., the BANOBRAS-SoG loan agreement
   and the corresponding decree enacted by the SoG legislature--could have been more flexibly designed
   to minimize complications involved in exchange fluctuations and to allow the SoG to use all the Bank
   loan proceeds. It would be necessary existing national procedures and policies to see if and how this

                                                     25
   could be accomplished.

At Guanajuato State Level:
    More political support for road maintenance: SOP is under-investing in periodic maintenance of the
    state road network. Investments in periodic maintenance should be more of a priority for SOP and the
    state government due their high levels of economic return. This is common problem among public
    works agency and usually requires a higher level political commitment and supervision to ensure that
    periodic maintenance is a priority.
    Continued investments in water sector institutional development: CEAG has demonstrated
    commendable leadership in managing the state's water resources, and helping to improve water and
    sanitation services provided by local water companies. The project provided the necessary additional
    funds for institutional development of CEAG and local water companies. It is important that the SoG
    continue to provide sufficient funding for institutional development activities in the water sector.
    Continued focus on water company sustainability Although the performance of municipal water
    companies has improved under the project, many are still in a precarious financial condition and subject
    to local political interference. The additional responsibility of wastewater treatment will put additional
    strain on the water companies, and make it even more important to improve their operational
    performance and financial condition.
    SoG support for COVEG: COVEG is still in crisis, and the SoG will need to pay considerable attention
    to defining the policies and providing the financial resources to meet the needs of the low-income
    housing sector. In particular, the current approach of requiring COVEG to be both financially
    autonomous and sustainable, while at the same time serving needs of the poor may not be practical.
    Maintain and continuously improve environmental and social management: SoG and its
    implementing agencies (SOP, CEAG, COVEG, and IIEG) have made considerable progress in
    enhancing their environmental and social management systems. After the completion of the project, it
    will be important for SoG to ensure that these gains are consolidated and sustained. Most importantly,
    SOP should strive to continuously improve its land acquisition and resettlement policies and
    procedures.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

Annex 7 provides the full transcript of comments provided by both BANOBRAS and the SoG.
The following is a summarized translation of the comments.

(a) BANOBRAS

ICR Evaluation: It is important to consider an integrated form of evaluation rather than just focus
on specific sector objectives. In particular, it is useful to consider the financial and operational
elements which made the project a success. Some notable aspects include: i) efficient financial
management; ii) currency SWAP and reduction in overall lending to the state; iii) quality and
impact of works financed under the project; iv) disbursement efficiency and the flexibility to meet
the liquidity requirements of the SoG; v) compliance with Project norms and requirements; vi) the
technical assistance provided by the Banks; vii) the capacity of SoG, World Bank, and SoG to
implement the project innovations; viii) improvements in state administration, particularly
environmental and social management; and ix) capacity of the state agencies to sustain the
investments and innovations in the project. When these aspects are taken into account, the overall
project outcome should be upgraded

Project Design: The project was designed to meet the specific needs of the Guanajuato and in
response to the decentralization process underway in Mexico at the time. The project was
designed in close collaboration with the state, which helped contribute to its success. An
important challenge was the need to harmonize the vision and operating schemes between
BANOBRAS and the World Bank during project implementation.



                                                     26
Achievement of Project Objectives: The transport component is considered satisfactory and the
water component demonstrated a notable performance. The housing component needed to be
restructured to include the Lotes con Servicio program and IVEG was transformed into COVEG.
A notable achievement was the creation of specific environment and social units for each agency.

Supervision: BANOBRAS committed more attention and resources for this project than a normal
loan operation. The activities that required the most attention were: general supervision, capacity
building and technical assistance, supervision missions, and coordination efforts. These activities
help to build the capacity of the state agencies and municipalities involved in the project. The
World Bank assisted in project integration, in technical assistance and cross-sector issues, and
providing international experts for each of the sectors in the project.

Project Execution: From the beginning of project, the state government worked cooperatively
with both banks and was key to achieving project objectives and overcome problems. The project
was a new experience for BANOBRAS. Some of the key innovations include: i) implementation
of a SWAP operation; ii) utilization of an output based disbursement mechanism which, among
other aspects, facilitated liquidity and simplified verification of eligible expenses.

Sector Wide Approach (SWAp): The SWAp approach provided a focus that went beyond
infrastructure financing and provide additional added value added to the state. Value added was
provided in terms of improving processes, incorporating best practice, capacity building, and
social and environmental management.

Lessons Learned:
 The SWAp approach is very valuable for this type of program
 Projects should be designed to coincide with political administrations; fortunately in
   Guanajuato the change in state government did not negatively impact the project.
 Ensure more efficient supervision missions

The project helped to build institutional capacity within the implementing agencies, whereas in
many World Bank-finance projects agencies had to establish specialized units just to deal with
Bank procedures and requirements.

Evaluation of Bank Performance: The relationship between BANOBRAS and the Bank were
always cordial and cooperative. One of the biggest challenges was coordinating the large and
specialized World Bank mission teams, which resulted in very busy supervision missions and
insufficient time. Another problem stemmed from the confusion over whether loans to low-
income families under the housing component were an eligible expense--the PAD stated it was an
eligible expense while it was not defined as such in the loan agreement.

Suggestions for Future Operations:
     Operational Flexibility: The specific and complex requirements, particularly with respect
        to Bank procedures and safeguards, act as a disincentive to participate in Bank-financed
        projects.
     Perfect System of Advanced Payments: The modified output-based advance
        disbursement was an effective mechanism for channeling funds. BANOBRAS and the
        World Bank should continue to use and perfect this mechanism.
     Safeguards: Based on the experience of this project, BANOBRAS is interested in
        working with the World Bank on this subject.



                                                27
        Currency Conversion/SWAP: This facilitated the transfer of resources to Guanajuato in
        an efficient and rapid manner. This scheme should be used in other cases where
        appropriate.
        Strengthen Country Systems: The use of country systems (procurement, financial
        management, safeguards, etc.) should be further developed in World Bank-BANOBRAS
        financed projects.
        Better Knowledge of Sub-National Loans: The World Bank should enhance its
        understanding of the processes employed by BANOBRAS, Secretaria de Hacienda y
        Credito Publico (SHCP) for subnational lending. Likewise, BANOBRAS should
        endeavor to understand Bank loan procedures better. This would help create more
        synergies between the two organizations.

(b) Guanajuato State Government

ICR Evaluation: The Project Results Framework (RFP) was formulated during the preparation
phase, and the World Bank has rated the overall quality at entry as Moderately Satisfactory.
Therefore, it is important to recognize that the RFP may not have fully developed and it may not
be appropriate to utilize the RFP as the only basis for evaluating project outcome. It is very
important also to consider improvements in overall public administration and the overall positive
externalities generated by the project. Specific observations are the following:

Project Design: The project design was very complicated, with multiple state agencies, the World
Bank, and BANOBRAS. The challenge in implementing the project, in particular the need for the
state agencies to understand and apply Bank safeguard and procurement policies, was
underestimated. A simpler and more focused project could have been considered during the
design phase.

Project Objectives: It was not actually necessary to adopt broad sectoral objectives under the
project, but rather more concrete variables for each sector would have been adequate. This was
realized during implementation and the project objectives were scaled down and made more
focused during implementation.

Implementation: The process of communication and coordination between state agencies-state
government-BANOBRAS local and central offices-World Bank, was complicated and time
consuming, often leading to delays in implementation and processing. In addition to the change in
state administration, there were also changes in key staff on the government side. In addition,
there were significant changes in the Bank team over time, with consequent changes in approach
and criteria.

Development Objectives: The development of good management practices at the state level, as
well infrastructure development in the three sectors, was achieved. Of particular importance was
the incorporation of environmental and social aspects in infrastructure construction.

BANOBRAS Performance: Although BANOBRAS helped resolve some procurement issues, it
could have provided more assistance. The role of BANOBRAS in general, and in particular at the
local office, was to act as intermediaries. The specialists from the World Bank interacted more on
substantive issues with the State. As a lesson learned, it is proposed to either provide more
authority to the local BANOBRAS office or to completely eliminate its role during project design.
In a similar manner, BANOBRAS should provide more high level support from its central office.


                                               28
Performance of the World Bank: The Bank team focused on solving implementation problems in
an expeditious manner, although in some cases the team did not fully understand the specific
conditions in Guanajuato. In addition, there was constant turnover in the Bank team, including at
the team leader position, which caused the state agencies to have the perception that the Bank did
not consider the project a priority.

Suggestions for Future Operations: The concept of a multiple SWAp should be reconsidered, as it
is too difficult to coordinate multiple sectors at the same time. In addition, the borrower
(BANOBRAS) should play a more active role during implementation or simply serve as conduit
for repayment. The lines of communication should be structured to be more agile and not delay
implementation. Finally, the project should be designed to be implemented by one administration
only, and there should be a stable World Bank team.

(b) Co-financiers
N.A.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N.A.




                                               29
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal       Actual/Latest
                                                                                                 % of
  Components                                              Estimate         Estimate1
                                                                                               Appraisal
                                                       (USD millions)         (USD million)
    1. Component A - Roads                                      59.0          59.15     100%
    2. Component B ­ Water and Sanitation                       38.0          38.15     100%
                                                                                                       (2)
    3. Component C ­ Low-Income Housing                          7.0           3.32      47%
    4. Component D ­ Technical Assistance                        1.5           3.55     237%
    5. Component F ­ `Piso Firme' Program                        n.a.          1.00
    6. Unallocated funds                                         2.5               0       0%
    Grand Total                                                108.0         105.17    97.4%
Notes:
(1)
    Amounts indicated in the `Client Connections' as of 7 May 2010.
(2)
    The actual costs of the Low-income Housing component included both Components D and F.

(b) Financing
                                                               Appraisal         Actual/Latest
                                              Type of                                          Percentage of
            Source of Funds                                     Estimate          Estimate *
                                            Co-financing                                         Appraisal
                                                              (US$ million)      (US$ million)
 State of Guanajuato                                             192.0
 International Bank for Reconstruction and
                                                    Loan          108.0              105.17        97.4%
 Development
* Note: A total of US$2.83 million of the original loan amount were cancelled.




                                                     30
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Component A ­ Implementation of the Road Transport Sector Strategy Model
Description: This component provided support to the state's three-year sector strategy to improve overall
performance of the road transport sector. It focused on: i) the institutional strengthening of the Public Works
Secretariat (Secretaría de Obras Públicas ­ SOP); ii) expanding the state's managed paved network; iii)
improving bridges and eliminating of bottlenecks; iv) supporting pre-investment studies for construction of
toll roads; and v) improving and expanding the rural road network.
Level of achievement: Moderately Satisfactory
Strengths               Routine maintenance of the state paved road network exhibited adequate levels
                           during the life of the project.
                        Deteriorated road segments were rehabilitated in line with the original target.
                        A total of 202 km of new paved roads were added to the state network between
                           2004 and 2008.
                        SOP's technical and institutional capacity in the area of pavement management
                           and planning has improved substantially. The HDM4 model is been managed and
                           operated in-house. It is utilize to identify annual budgetary needs for conservation
                           activities and to allocate actual budgetary resources.
                        Sound environmental and social safeguard procedures have been permanently
                           adopted and are applied to all SOP road projects.
Pending                 Conditions of the state's paved road maintenance remained essentially stable
challenges                 during the Project, with the percentage of paved roads in good and fair condition
                           fluctuating around 86%. The percentage of roads in poor condition could be
                           reduced through further maintenance and rehabilitation.
                        SOP's annual budgets reflect a relatively stronger emphasis on construction of
                           new roads vis-à-vis conservation activities.
                        Periodic maintenance was significantly lower than anticipated. The lack of
                           adequate periodic maintenance will eventually lead to an accelerated deterioration
                           of the state road network, adding unnecessarily to conservation costs.
Achievement of Intermediate Results defined in the Loan Agreement's PRF for this component
    Multi-year HDM4-based planning system in place for road management.
    Achieved. In 2008, a total of 2,437 km of paved were included in the state's HDM4 system and road
    condition quantified in terms of roughness. The original target was amply exceeded, as an additional
    273 km were added into the state's HDM4 system compared to the original target of 169 km--i.e.,
    roughly 62% than originally anticipated. It is important to note that, between 2004 and 2009, the
    coverage of the HDM4 system increased from 82% to 86% of the total state's paved road network, as
    the kilometers of paved road incorporated into the system exceeded those of new paved roads. SOP's
    annual work program for conservation activities is derived using the HDM4 model.
    Number of staff trained in transport planning.
    Achieved. The state's HDM4 system was initially managed and operated by the University of
    Guanajuato on a contract basis. The HDM4 system is now managed and operated within SOP by
    technical staff that has been trained and permanently hired for that purpose.
    SOP staff trained for oversight of environmental and social issues
    Achieved. Prior to the implementation of the project, only those transport projects receiving federal
    funding were subject to environmental impact assessment; none were subject to social impact
    assessment. Under the project, an Environmental Coordination Unit (which oversees both
    environmental and social aspects) was permanently established within SOP. After the project, all SOP
    projects are subject to environmental and social safeguards according to the agency-wide procedures
    outlined in the Environmental and Social Management Manual that was published in 2009. A total of
    185 staff received trained in environmental and social impact.
    A total of 2,250 km of the state road network receive routine maintenance each year.
    Achieved. Actual achievements are equivalent to roughly 104% of the original target. Routine
    maintenance increased during the life of the project, from 2,166 km in 2004 to an annual average of
    2,350 km between 2005 and 2009. Overall, the rate of increase in routine maintenance has kept up with
    that of the paved road network in general, with 82% and 85% of the state's paved road network
    receiving routine maintenance in 2004 and 2009, respectively.
    A total of 800 km of the state road network receive periodic maintenance during the life of the project.
    Not achieved. Actual achievements are equivalent to roughly 53% of the original target, as only 425
    km received periodic maintenance between 2005 and 2009. However, a positive trend can be observed,
    with the number of kilometer that received periodic maintenance increasing consistently throughout the


                                                     31
   life of the project, from 31.8 km in 2005 to 259 in 2009, respectively.
   A total of 18.8 km are rehabilitated to a roughness level of less than IRI=3 during the life of the project.
   Achieved: Actual achievements exceeded the original target, as a total of 31 km were rehabilitated
   over the life of the project compared to the 18.8 km target.
   Rehabilitation and construction of rural roads, with 608 km of improved rural access.
   Achieved: Actual achievements are equivalent to roughly 114% of the original target, with a total of 701
   km of improved rural access. The improved rural access has a strong poverty alleviation impact, given
   the higher concentration of poverty in rural areas.
Component B ­ Implementation of the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Strategy
Description: This component addressed the problems identified by the SoG in its water and sanitation
service provision. It focused on: i) improving water resources management; ii) increasing coverage of water
supply and sanitation; and iii) the institutional strengthening of the State Water Commission (Comisión
Estatal del Agua de Guanajuato - CEAG) and developing support mechanism to operators.
Level of achievement: Highly Satisfactory
Strengths                CEAG is one of Mexico's strongest water agencies.
                         Coverage of water and sanitation services in both urban and rural areas has
                           expanded during the life of the project and is above the national coverage.
                         Wastewater treatment capacity increased substantially during the life of the project,
                           positioning Guanajuato among Mexico's top states in wastewater treatment
                           coverage.
                         Physical and commercial efficiency improved substantially among water operators
                           that implemented institutional strengthening plans during the life of the project.
                         CEAS's has developed and is implementing a long-term integrated water
                           management strategy, which includes, among others, developing an integrated
                           water management system, improving the efficiency in measurement of hydrologic
                           cycles, and fostering more participative forms of water management.
                         CEAG's own institutional and technical capacity was strengthened under the
                           project, in areas such as staff training, cross-fertilization activities, tariff design, and
                           the development of a water and sanitation information systems.
                         Sound environmental and social safeguard procedures have been permanently
                           adopted and are applied to all new water investments.
Pending                  Unitary water production prices increased between 2005 and 2008 and are above
challenges                 the national average.
                         Despite improvements in efficiency among water operators that implemented
                           institutional strengthening plans, they are still barely covering their operational
                           costs, unable to cover investments costs, and remain in a financially precarious
                           situation.
                         Likewise, although improvements in physical efficiency among these operators are
                           encouraging, levels of unaccounted-for water (UFW) are still relatively high
                           considering the degree of water scarcity and high cost of water production due to
                           groundwater pumping costs in Guanajuato.
                         There is a considerable level of uncertainty in CEAG's budgetary allocations, which
                           limits its ability to implement institutional strengthening activities both in-house and
                           among water operators and community-based water management bodies in an
                           effective manner.
Achievement of Intermediate Results defined in the Loan Agreement's PRF for this component
     Increased productivity of water operators that serve more than 20,000 inhabitants as measured by the
     revenue/production ratio.
     Partially achieved: Actual achievements exceeded original targets by roughly 45%, as 81 annual
     increments greater than 10% in the revenue/production were achieved among the 24 water operators
     that received efficiency-related investments under the project between 2004 and 2006. Seven of these
     achieved two increments, while one of them achieved three increments during this period. Overall, the
     revenue/production for the 36 municipalities with more than 20,000 inhabitants increased by 44 percent
     between 2005 and 2008--from Mx$3.49/m3 to Mx$5.03/m3.
     Number of water operators with institutional development plans.
     Achieved: No specific target was achieved. Eleven water operators in the state implemented
     institutional strengthening plans aimed at enhancing the physical, commercial, and overall efficiency.
     These plans included actions such macro- and micro-measurements, consumption determination,
     changes to internal regulations, and adoption of performance indicators.


                                                         32
     Mechanisms in place for operators to access knowledge and share best practices.
     Achieved: Art. 29 of CEAG's Internal Procedures assigns CEAG the responsibility to promote,
     systematize, and disseminate research on new water technologies and to build link institutional with
     academic and research institutions. In addition, Art. 37 calls for CEAG to coordinate and promote
     cross-fertilization among water operators in the state
     CEAG staff trained for oversight of environmental and social issues, including: i) Environmental and
     Social Impact Unit in place; ii) Manuals with procedures on environmental and social guidelines; and iii)
     EAG staff trained in environmental and social impact.
     Achieved: Actual achievements amply exceed original expectations. CEAG's newly adopted Internal
     Procedures makes it compulsory to conduct impact assessment studies for new physical investments in
     the water sector (e.g., alternative water sources, aquifer recovery). In addition, Art. 36 establishes the
     functions of the General Directorate of Social Affairs, which is responsible for promoting citizen
     participation in relation to water issues, including reforestation and environmental recovery initiatives,
     and to attend to social conflicts around water and sanitation services. A Best Practices Manual for
     Environmental Management of Physical Investments in the Water and Sanitation was also developed
     and adopted under the project. This Manual provides consistent criteria for environmental management
     at different stages of the project cycle for the various institutional actors. Extensive training in
     environmental and social management was provided under the project.
     Number of additional rural inhabitants with access to water supply and sanitation services.
     Achieved: The original target was not disaggregated by rural and urban population. It was amply
     exceeded, as coverage of water and sanitation services were extended to a total of 330,000 users, incl.
     over 250,000 users in urban areas and 78,346 users in rural areas.7 Rural beneficiaries were distributed
     in 28 out of the 46 municipalities in the state, including some with the highest incidence of poverty.
      In urban areas, 115,523 people were provided with water connections during the life of the project,
         with the percentage of urban population with water connections increasing from 95.6 to 97 percent
         between 2005 and 2009. This is higher than the national coverage of 94.3 percent for water
         services in urban areas in 2008.
      In rural areas, 38,127 people were provided with access to a water source during the life of the
         project, with the percentage of rural population having access to a water source increasing from
         84.2 to 84.8 percent between 2005 and 2009. This is higher than the national coverage of 76.8
         percent for water services in rural areas in 2008.
      In urban areas, 135,507 people were provided with sanitation connections during the life of the
         project, with the percentage of urban population with sewage connections increasing from 96.8 to
         98.8 percent between 2005 and 2009. This is higher than the national coverage of 93.9 percent for
         sanitation services in urban areas in 2008.
      In rural areas, 40,219 people were provided with access to sanitation during the life of the project,
         with the percentage of rural population with access to sanitation increasing from 62 to 63.2 percent
         between 2005 and 2009. This is significantly than the national coverage of 61.8 percent for
         sanitation services in rural areas in 2008.
     Increased effectiveness of municipal treatment plants in terms of the annual volume of organic waste
     removed (i.e., kilos/year).
     Achieved: The actual outcome of 12,717 kg of organic load removed was largely in line with the
     anticipated target of 12,500 kg. Moreover, actual performance is expected to improve in the medium
     term, as only four of the eight additional treatment plants are currently operational. The five remaining
     plans are expected to remove an additional 9,271 kg of organic load once they are operational,
     exceeding the original target by over 60%.
Component C ­ Implementation of the Low-Income Housing Strategy
Description: This component addressed the problems faced by the SoG in low-income housing provision. It
focused on: i) the institutional strengthening of the state housing agency (Instituto de Vivienda del Estado de
Guanajuato - IVEG); ii) expanding land reserve acquisition; iii) increasing housing access to the poor; and iv)
increasing the supply of low-income housing via developers.
Level of achievement: Moderately Unsatisfactory




7
     This indicator, of course, overestimates the number of people that benefited from the project, as some
of the beneficiaries received both water and sanitation.


                                                     33
Strengths              A more robust policy framework was adopted with the passage of new housing
                       legislation in 2008.
                    IVEG/COVEG's administrative efficiency has improved slightly, as reflected by a
                       25% reduction of the proportion of the portfolio in arrears and other improvements
                       in portfolio management and loan origination practices, and customer service.
                    These improvements came as a result of a portfolio review and the depuration of
                       IVEG/COVEG's databases, improved loan origination practices, the incorporation
                       of new technologies, staff training and other actions that were supported under the
                       project.
                    Sounder environmental and social practices were put in place.
Pending             The improvements described above have failed to translate into expanded access
challenges             to housing among the poor, as IVEG/COVEG's performance has deteriorated in
                       terms of both output and targeting.
                    Addressing the agency' financial fragility would still require substantial institutional
                       and financial reengineering.
                    There is considerable room for further improvement of COVEG's administrative
                       efficiency, including targeting of subsidies, loan origination practices, cost
                       recovery, and portfolio management.
Specific outcomes defined in the Loan Agreement's PRF for this component
    The State implements low-income housing program using clear eligibility criteria, supported by
    transparent subsidy instruments.
    Not achieved: Substantial progress was done toward the development of a low-income housing
    strategy. Its basic tenets are embedded in the new Housing Law that was approved in 2008, including:
    the promotion of private sector participation in low-income housing; aligning targeting strategies at the
    state and federal levels and explicitly recognizing COVEG's ability to grant subsidies; and establishing
    the state's housing information system. However, the more robust policy framework has failed to
    translate into the implementation of sound low-income housing strategy. Substantial reengineering of
    COVEG's financial strategy, including making subsidies transparent, is still pending.
    The State defines and implements a subsidy strategy.
    Not achieved: Some progress was done toward estimating the indirect subsidies that were embedded
    in IVEG/COVEG's loans. However, COVEG still lacks a transparent and efficient subsidy strategy. As
    originally envisioned, financial intermediaries were to participate in the financing of the sites-and-
    services `Esta es tu Casa' Program included under the project's restructuring. Unfortunately, their
    participation did not materialized and, instead, financing has been a mixed of federal and state
    subsidies, together with a loan from COVEG that includes substantial implicit subsidies. Thus,
    COVEG's structural deficiencies in financial practices remain unchanged.
    In addition, targeting of IVEG/COVEG's low-income housing programs deteriorated during the life of the
    loan, with the percentage of loans granted to low-income households (i.e., those with an income less
    than 4 times the minimum wage) decreasing from 79% in 2004 to 42% for 2006-2007--i.e., equivalent
    to almost a 50% reduction. (Data is not available for the entire time period). Targeting improved slightly
    after the restructuring, with roughly 52% of COVEG's low-income housing programs being granted to
    low-income hhlds (see Table 1).




                                                     34
                         Table 1. IVEG/COVEG's production outputs ­ 2004-2009
                                      2004       2005     2006    2007     2008      2009    2009/2004
    Institutional programs                                                                      %
    Self-help rural housing            1,002        733      697     652      927       927        0.93
    Self-help institutional housing    1,545        656      790     876      710       746        0.48
    Institutional links                   16         18       39       8         1      -          0.00
    Sites-and-services                   116        647      324     214      152       222        1.91
    Progressive housing                   86        143       79      20       20         27       0.31
    Sub-total                          2,765      2,197    1,929   1,770    1,810     1,922        0.70
    Low-income targeting
    Number                              2178         n.a.   1435      122      n.a.      993       0.46
    Percentage - %                      0.79         n.a.   0.74    0.07       n.a.    0.52        0.66
    Federal programs
    Sub-total                            256        137      480     369      818       194        0.76
    Third-party programs
    Sub-total                            303        423      292     353      225       202        0.67
    Promotion programs
    Sub-total                        10,271       8,677    5,215   2,486    2,616     1,109        0.11
    Total                            13,595     11,434     7,916   4,978    5,469     3,427        0.25
    Source: FESI - Performance Assessment of the Low-Income Component (Mendez, 2009)


   IVEG/COVEG staff trained for oversight of environmental management.
   Achieved: The permanent establishment of the ESU within COVEG's organizational structure is a
   major accomplishment under the project. Some of the specific achievements in this area include: i) an
   ESU was created in 2009 and permanently inserted into COVEG's organizational structure in 2010; ii)
   IVEG/COVEG applied the Environmental and Social Worksheet (Ficha Ambiental y Social) to the six
   sites-and-services development projects and submitted it to the Environmental and Social Sub-
   committee; iii) Manual of Environmental and Social Best Practices for the Housing Sector was published
   in 2010; and iv) ESU staff implemented actions to foster the integration of sites-and-services
   beneficiaries. The incorporation of environmental and social management procedures into COVEG's
   Internal Procedures is still pending.
   Increased access to housing for the poor as measured by the number of loans provided under selected
   IVEG's housing programs.
   Original targets not achieved: IVEG/COVEG's performance in terms of outputs deteriorated
   significantly over the life of the project. The 2005-2009 outputs of IVEG/COVEG's housing programs
   included a total of 9,628 loans and housing units, compared to the 14,043 outputs originally
   envisioned--i.e., equivalent to 69 percent achievement of the original target (see Table 2).
   IVEG/COVEG's drastic reduction in output was the result of the termination annual state funding from
   2003 onward, combined the institution's unsustainable financial practices.

       Table 2. Actual outputs vs. original targets for selected low-income housing programs
                                               2004-2009
                         Low-income                Actual       Original Targets
                         housing program          2005-2009 Number          %
                         Self-help housing            7,714      6,525       118%
                         Institutional links             66        276        24%
                         Sites-and-services           1,559      6,888        23%
                         Progressive housing            289        354        82%
                         All                          9,628    14,043         69%


   Revised targets achieved as a whole: As a whole, the target revised during restructuring for selected
   IVEG/COVEG low-income housing programs was met. They were designed to ensure that
   IVEG/COVEG's performance did not deteriorate further during 2008 and 2009. In fact, annual outputs in
   these housing programs increased slightly during 2008 and 2009, reverting the downward trend.
   Specifically, both in 2008 and 2009 the overall output of these selected programs was 1,810 and 1,922
   units programs exceeded the revised target of 1,557 units. While the target for self-help housing, which
   was the largest one, was amply exceeded, those for the remaining programs were below anticipated
   levels (see Table 3).



                                                   35
        Table 3. Actual outputs vs. revised targets for selected low-income housing programs
                                               2008-2009
          Low-income                               Actual                         Revised Targets
          housing program                      2008       2009       Avg.        Number       %
                                                                    2008-09
          Self-help housing                   1,637        1,673        1,655        1212         137%
          Institutional links                     1          -              1           18          3%
          Sites-and-services                    152          222          187          251         75%
          Progressive housing                    20            27          24           76         31%
          All                                 1,810        1,922        1,866       1,557         120%


  Additional targets partially achieved: In terms of the additional targets introduced at restructuring
  were also met or exceeded in terms of outputs. However, the enhanced financial mechanisms that were
  anticipated for the sites-and-services program have not yet materialized.
   The actual number of sites-and-services lots developed under the `Esta es tu Casa' Program
      exceeded the target defined at restructuring by 10 percent. Of the 769 lots that were developed, 187
      have been already distributed among households with less than five times the minimum wage.
      Unfortunately, no financial intermediaries have so far participated in the financing of these lots, as it
      was originally envisioned. Instead, financing has been a mixed of federal and state subsidies,
      together with a loan from COVEG that includes a substantial implicit subsidies. Thus, although the
      physical targets were met, their financing reveals that some of the structural deficiencies in COVEG's
      financial practices remain unchanged.
   The `Piso Firme' Program was incorporated at restructuring at the request of the incoming state
      authorities. It provides concrete floors up to a maximum of 50 m2 for low-income households with dirt
      road. The target defined at restructuring was exceeded by 4 percent. However, the contribution of
      the project to the implementation of the `Piso Firme' Program is negligible, as its amounts to only
      4,685 of the 80,000 actions that were implemented under the program, which was administered by
      the Secretariat of Human and Social Development - SDSH--i.e., equivalent to only 6 percent of the
      total output.
Component D - Technical Assistance to Cross-Sector Areas
Description: This Technical Assistance (TA) component was aimed at strengthening cross-sectoral
capabilities within the state to achieve full compliance with the Program's Operating Regulations. It focused
on: i) strengthening of the mechanisms to screen, prioritize and monitor public investments; ii) strengthening
of the existing consultation, participation and disclosure mechanisms; iii) enhancing the capacity of relevant
state agencies and practices in the safeguard areas; iv) strengthening of procurement policies and practices;
and; v) optimization of the existing financial management and audit systems and processes.
Level of achievement: Satisfactory
Strengths               Environmental and social safeguard procedures were significantly strengthened
                           within participating agencies, which now have ESUs permanently inserted into their
                           organizational structure. They have also mainstreamed procedures beyond the
                           scope and duration of the project.
                        Environmental and social safeguard procedures were also significantly
                           strengthened at the sector level. The implementation of a cross-sectoral committee
                           to carry out the ESMF under the project served to enhance consistency of criteria
                           and procedures to be used throughout the state. Likewise, the strengthening of the
                           state's environmental agency - IEEG has been an important step in improving
                           environmental practices at the state level, beyond the life of the project.
                        The operation also provided support to the further development of the state's e-
                           procurement system, public investment evaluation and prioritization, and multi-year
                           planning. In these areas, however, the Bank's support was mainly financial, with
                           limited TA.
                        The operation provided support to the state's efforts to enhance transparency,
                           participation, and access to information. These efforts were crucial in addressing
                           the concerns of some NGOs regarding the adoption of country systems
Pending                 The sustainability of these achievements will depend, to a large extent, on the
challenges                 continuous commitment of state authorities. Much of the progress made so far is


                                                      36
                            the result of strong ownership of the current administration.
Achievement of Intermediate Results defined in the Loan Agreement's PRF for this component
    Strengthening and mainstreaming of the use of economic, environmental and social analysis in the
    planning cycle.
    Achieved: Between 2005 and 2009, the IEEF assessed and classified a total of 516 subprojects
    financed under the project in accordance according to the guidelines under the agreed ESMF. In
    addition, the IEEG assessed and classified under the same ESMF a total of 298 subprojects in water
    and sanitation, roads and housing that were not financed under the project. This is the result of the
    mainstreaming of environmental and social safeguards within SOP, CEAG, and COVEG, regardless of
    the source of financing. Procurement practices within individual agencies were also strengthened under
    the project, with all executing agencies (which included some municipal water operators) receiving
    training in procurement.
    Adoption of systematic participation processes and access to information mechanisms around FESI,
    and by participating agencies at the sectoral and investment-specific levels.
    Achieved: The operation provided support to the state's efforts to enhance transparency, participation,
    and access to information. These efforts were crucial in addressing the concerns of some NGOs
    regarding the adoption of country systems. Specific actions in this area included:
      Intense consultation with civil society through consultation processes that involved more than 30
          NGOs, academicians, and representatives from government-organized consultative bodies. These
          consultations were very successful in eliciting community input on the consultations strategy
          around FESI, access to information strategy and the ESMF.
      The implementation of a web portal that provided public access to information related to the project
          identified in conjunction with civil organizations.
      The SDSH undertook an ambitious survey to measure the customer's satisfaction services
          provided by state agencies. Data from this study will be used as the baseline for comparison with
          future surveys.
    Systematic implementation of Environmental and Social Monitoring Framework (ESMF) by IEEG and
    sector agencies.
    Achieved: The project's ESMF was implemented as originally envisioned. The cross-sector
    Environmental and Social Sub-committee met in 31 occasions during the life of the project and
    reviewed a total of 548 subprojects being financed under the project. It is important to note, however,
    that IVEG/COVEG began compliance with the ESMF later than the other two sectors--from 2007
    onward.
    Improved procurement policies and practices in at least two of the participating agencies.
    Achieved: The new system was implemented in July 2009. During 2009, 26% of all state contracts
    were processed through the new procurement system. In 2010, all state contracts are being processed
    through the system.
    Uniform procurement information system operational and online.
    Achieved: Same as above.
    Standardized and improved Financial Management (FM) systems and processes in place.
    Achieved: Implementation of FM under the project was satisfactory, with robust FMRs and monitoring
    systems in place.
Component E ­ Implementing the `Piso Firme' Program
Description: This component provided support to the implementation of the `Piso Firne' Program being
implemented by the State Secretariat of Social and Human Development (Secretaría de Desarrollo Social y
Humano ­ SDSH). This activity supported the same low-income housing objective as Component C.
Level of achievement: Satisfactory
Strengths                This program, which was implemented by the SDSH, provided support to 80,000
                            low-income households through the provision of building materials to replace up to
                                   2
                            50 m of dirt floors for cement floors. Of these, 4,685 were supported under this
                            operation.
                         The `Piso Firme' program has multiple proved benefits, including major health
                            improvement among the beneficiary population, children in particular.
                         As a result of the implementation of this program, the percentage of dwellings with
                            dirt floor amounts to only 2.5% in the SoG, compared to a national average of 6%
                            (Encuesta Ingreso Gasto de los Hogares - ENIGH 2008).
Pending                  None.
challenges


                                                     37
Specific Intermediate Results defined under the 2008 restructuring for this component
   Number of beneficiaries from the `Piso Firme' Program.
   Achieved: The `Piso Firme' Program was incorporated at restructuring at the request of the incoming
   state authorities. It provides concrete floors up to a maximum of 50 m2 for low-income households with
   dirt road. Its target (i.e., 4,485 households) was exceeded by 4%, as 4,685 actions were financed
   under this component. However, the contribution of the project to the implementation of the `Piso Firme'
   Program within the scope of the project is negligible, as its amounts to only 4,685 of the 80,000 actions
   that were implemented under the program, which was administered by the Secretariat of Human and
   Social Development - SDSH--i.e., equivalent to only 6% of the total output.




                                                    38
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
a. Economic Analysis

An economic analysis was conducted for the transport and water and sanitation sector, which
represent 92 percent of the total loan amount. The transport economic analysis was undertaken by
a World Bank specialist, Rodrigo Archondo-Callao, based upon information provided by SOP.
The water and sanitation economic analysis was undertaken by Grupo Espacio Siete (SoG)
consultants and is also presented in their report. The economic analysis was not performed for the
low-income sector given that: i) there were substantial hidden subsidies in the loans being granted
by the state's housing authority that prevented from determining a clear cost structure, and; ii) the
low-income sector represented roughly 4 percent of the total disbursements.

Component A. Roads

Ex-ante Economic Evaluation: At appraisal, the road sections to be rehabilitated during the
duration of the project with Bank financing have not been identified; therefore, a representative
economic evaluation of the project was done at appraisal, using the Highway Development and
Management Model (HDM-4), analyzing representative road classes, characterized to be in poor
condition (average roughness of 5.5 IRI) and with different traffic levels. The table below
presents the four road classes, totaling 500 km, evaluated with HDM-4, considering the same
traffic distribution of the overall network.


                                Table 1. Road rehabilitation classes
                                     Road Rehabilitation Classes
                             Traffic          Length (km) Percent (%)
                             < 1,000 AADT          120          24
                             1,000-2,500 AADT      200          40
                             2,500-4,000 AADT      100          20
                             >4,000 AADT            80          16
                             Total                  500         100



The ex-ante economic evaluation considered a 'without project' alternative that includes routine
maintenance, patching and reconstruction when the roughness reaches 8.0 IRI, and a 'with project'
alternative that includes the rehabilitation work done at the beginning of the evaluation period
followed by a maintenance policy that includes routine maintenance, patching and overlays when
the roughness reaches 3.5 IRI. The ex-ante economic evaluation indicated that the Net Present
Value (NPV) of the rehabilitation program is in the order of US$99.4 million with an overall
internal rate of return (IRR) of 61 percent. The table below presents the economic evaluation
results.




                                                 39
                          Table 2. Ex-ante Economic Evaluation Results
                              Ex-ante Economic Evaluation Results
                                      Length    Investment       NPV         IRR
                 Traffic               (km)    (US$ million) (US$ million)   (%)
                 < 1000 AADT            120        18.0           1.1         18
                 1000-2500 AADT        200         30.0          17.1         37
                 2500-4000 AADT        100         15.0          26.1         81
                 > 4000 AADT            80         12.0          55.1        162
                 Total                  500        75.0          99.4         61



Ex-Post Economic Evaluation: The ex-post economic evaluation analyzed the 15 road sections
that received periodic maintenance or were rehabilitated under the project, totaling 133.2 km. Net
benefits were analyzed using the HDM-4 model, which simulates highway life cycle and vehicle
operation conditions and costs for multiple road design and maintenance alternatives. The
discount rate was set to 12 percent, the evaluation period to 20 years, and the annual traffic
growth rate to 3 percent considering that the GDP has grown in Mexico by around 3.4 percent per
year in recent years. The maintenance and rehabilitation costs were estimated in financial and
economic terms (net of taxes), economic costs being on average 87 percent of financial costs. The
following table presents typical unit road user costs (vehicle operating costs and passenger time
costs) in Mexico, at different roughness levels, in US$ per vehicle-km.


                                  Table 3. Unit Road User Costs
                                      Unit Road User Costs
                                         (US$/vehicle-km)
                  Roughness                      Medium    Heavy    Articulated
                     (IRI)       Car    Bus       Truck    Truck      Truck
                       2        0.129 1.064       0.515    0.689       1.020
                       3        0.129 1.074       0.518    0.693       1.027
                       4        0.133 1.170       0.543    0.723       1.083
                       5        0.137 1.276       0.570    0.756       1.148
                       6        0.142 1.393       0.602    0.794       1.224
                       7        0.149 1.529       0.638    0.840       1.314
                       8        0.157 1.681       0.680    0.897       1.414



The table below presents the fifteen road sections basic characteristic. All roads are asphalt
concrete roads in fair to poor condition with an average roughness of 4.04 IRI, m/km, and
average deflection of 0.86 mm. The Libramiento Sur De Celaya, Celaya - San Miguel De Allende,
Boulevard Euquerio Guerrero and Leon - San Francisco Del Rincon roads are four lane roads,
while the rest are two lane roads.




                                               40
                             Table 4. Road Sections Basic Characteristics
                                 Road Sections Basic Characteristics
                                         Length Lanes Surface Roughness             Deflection
       Road Section Name                  (km)      (#)     Type     (IRI, m/km)      (mm)
       Libramiento Sur De Acambaro        10.6       2       AC          3.58         1.228
       Tarimoro-Apaseo El Alto            24.8       2       AC          4.02         1.082
       Libramiento Sur De Celaya           2.2       4       AC          4.54         1.170
       Celaya-San Miguel De Allende        2.0       4       AC          4.19         1.121
       Doctor Mora-Cieneguilla            10.0       2       AC          5.05         0.704
       Dolores Hidalgo-Adjuntas Del
       Rio                                 3.3       2       AC          4.57         0.560
       Dolores Hidalgo-Rio Laja            3.7       2       AC          3.33         0.518
       Boulevard Euquerio Guerrero         3.7       4       AC          3.78         0.340
       Yerbabuena-Puentecillas             4.0       2       AC          4.58         0.624
       Huanimaro E.C. (Irapuato-
       Abasolo)                           28.9       2       AC          4.25         0.930
       Leon-San Francisco Del Rincon       9.5       4       AC          3.15         0.560
       Salamanca-La Ordeña                10.9       2       AC          3.89         0.690
       San Luis De La Paz-San Jose
       Iturbide                           12.5       2       AC          3.53         0.840
       Vialidad Lateral Norte-Puente
       Silao 1                             3.5       2       AC          5.25         0.800
       Boulevard General Motors            3.5       2       AC          3.91         0.619
       Total                              133.2                          4.04         0.860
       AC = Asphalt Concrete

The table below presents the road sections Average Annual Daily Traffic (AADT) in 2007. The
average AADT is 4,500 vehicles per day and the average traffic composition is 94.6 percent cars,
1.4 percent buses and 4.0 percent trucks. The Libramiento Sur De Celaya road section has a high
percentage of truck because it is an important toll road. The average AADT of the road classes
evaluated at appraisal is 2,430 vehicles per day that is almost half the traffic on the actual project
road sections.

                   Table 5. Road Sections 2007 Average Annual Daily Traffic (AADT)
                                                                Medium Heavy Articulated
                                        Traffic Cars    Buses    Truck       Truck Truck
     Road Section Name                 (AADT) (%)       (%)        (%)        (%)    (%)
     Libramiento Sur De Acambaro         3,405  94.8%    1.1%     1.4%       1.0%   1.8%
     Tarimoro-Apaseo El Alto             2,040  92.6%    1.8%     2.0%       1.7%   1.9%
     Libramiento Sur De Celaya           5,039  63.2%    7.8%     6.2%       3.0%  20.0%
     Celaya-San Miguel De Allende        8,502  89.9%    2.5%     1.7%       1.2%   4.9%
     Doctor Mora-Cieneguilla              789   98.1%    0.4%     1.0%       0.6%   0.0%
     Dolores Hidalgo-Adjuntas Del
     Rio                                 1,200  98.7%    0.2%     0.7%       0.5%   0.0%
     Dolores Hidalgo-Rio Laja            2,721  91.5%    2.4%     2.2%       1.2%   2.9%
     Boulevard Euquerio Guerrero        22,891 98.6%     0.4%     0.6%       0.3%   0.2%
     Yerbabuena-Puentecillas            7,878   97.7%    0.4%     1.0%       0.8%   0.2%
     Huanimaro E.C. (Irapuato-
     Abasolo)                            5,329  97.3%    0.5%     1.0%       0.5%   0.8%
     Leon-San Francisco Del Rincon       7,662  89.6%    5.6%     0.5%       0.2%   4.2%
     Salamanca-La Ordeña                 2,666  96.3%    0.5%     1.6%       1.0%   0.7%
     San Luis De La Paz-San Jose
     Iturbide                           3,038   97.2%    0.7%     1.0%       1.0%   0.2%
     Vialidad Lateral Norte-Puente
     Silao 1                             8,028  90.8%    1.3%     2.0%       1.6%   4.4%
     Boulevard General Motors           6,923   95.0%    0.6%     1.4%       1.0%   2.1%
     Total                               4,500  94.6%    1.4%     1.4%       0.9%   1.7%




                                                 41
The following table presents the road sections road works class and the financial investment costs.
Periodic maintenance works includes overlay or reseal works and rehabilitation works includes
reconstruction, partial reconstruction or mill and replace works. The average cost of the periodic
maintenance works is US$2.41 per m2 and the average cost of the rehabilitation works is
US$16.1 per m2. At appraisal, the unit cost of a 25mm reseal was estimated to be US$3.2 per m2
and the unit cost of reconstruction was estimated to be US$20.8 per m2. Therefore, the actual
costs are lower than the ones estimated at appraisal.

                            Table 6. Road Works Class and Financial Costs
                                Road Works Class and Financial Costs
                                            Road Work         Cost         Cost      Cost *
      Road Section Name                        Class      (US$ Million) (US$/km)   (US$/m2)
                                         Periodic
      Libramiento Sur De Acambaro        Maintenance         0.241        22,770     3.16
                                         Periodic
      Tarimoro-Apaseo El Alto            Maintenance         0.331        13,325    1.85
      Libramiento Sur De Celaya          Rehabilitation      1.077       489,377    33.98
      Celaya-San Miguel De Allende       Rehabilitation      0.366       183,123    12.72
                                         Periodic
      Doctor Mora-Cieneguilla            Maintenance         0.116        11,551     1.60
      Dolores Hidalgo-Adjuntas Del
      Rio                                Rehabilitation      0.204        61,682     8.57
      Dolores Hidalgo-Rio Laja           Rehabilitation      0.244        66,016     9.17
                                         Periodic
      Boulevard Euquerio Guerrero        Maintenance         0.128        34,557     2.40
                                         Periodic
      Yerbabuena-Puentecillas            Maintenance         0.088        22,012     3.06
      Huanimaro E.C. (Irapuato-          Periodic
      Abasolo)                           Maintenance         0.413        14,281     1.98
                                         Periodic
      Leon-San Francisco Del Rincon      Maintenance         0.299        31,495     2.19
                                         Periodic
      Salamanca-La Ordeña                Maintenance         0.165        15,134     2.10
      San Luis De La Paz-San Jose        Periodic
      Iturbide                           Maintenance         0.109         8,691     1.21
      Vialidad Lateral Norte-Puente      Periodic
      Silao 1                            Maintenance         0.086        24,629     3.42
                                         Periodic
      Boulevard General Motors           Maintenance         0.087        24,932     3.46
      Total                                                  3.954        29,693     4.12
      * Cost per m2 based on 7.2 m carriageway width.

The ex-post economic evaluation considers a 'without project' alternative that includes routine
maintenance, patching and reconstruction when the roughness reaches 8.0 IRI, and a 'with project'
alternative that includes the road work done followed by a maintenance policy that includes
routine maintenance, patching and overlays when the roughness reaches 3.5 IRI. The table
below presents the ex-post economic evaluation results, which shows that the NPV of the
program for the investments included in this analysis amounts to US$9.9 million, the NPV per
investment ratio is 2.50 and the overall EIRR is 97 percent. Thus, the program has a robust
economic justification as expected for periodic maintenance and rehabilitation works on roads
with high traffic volume and relatively low construction unit costs. The ex-post economic
indicators are higher than the ones estimated at appraisal because the actual road works costs are
lower than the ones estimated at appraisal and the average traffic on the project roads is higher
than the traffic values adopted at appraisal.




                                               42
                           Table 7. Ex-Post Economic Evaluation Results
                               Ex-Post Economic Evaluation Results
                                                                NPV per
                                                 NPV          Investment        EIRR
              Road Section Name               (US$ Million)       (#)            (%)
              Libramiento Sur De Acambaro         0.7            3.11           104%
              Tarimoro-Apaseo El Alto             1.4            4.31           119%
              Libramiento Sur De Celaya           0.1            0.12            15%
              Celaya-San Miguel De Allende        0.3            0.69            46%
              Doctor Mora-Cieneguilla             0.2            1.64            50%
              Dolores Hidalgo-Adjuntas Del
              Rio                                 0.0            0.10            14%
              Dolores Hidalgo-Rio Laja            0.3            1.22            38%
                                                                                  >
              Boulevard Euquerio Guerrero             1.2          9.45         150%
                                                                                  >
              Yerbabuena-Puentecillas                 0.2          2.64         150%
              Huanimaro E.C. (Irapuato-                                           >
              Abasolo)                                2.4          5.78         150%
              Leon-San Francisco Del Rincon           1.6          5.32         128%
              Salamanca-La Ordeña                     0.3          1.74          50%
              San Luis De La Paz-San Jose
              Iturbide                                0.4          3.96          76%
              Vialidad Lateral Norte-Puente                                       >
              Silao 1                                 0.5          5.85         150%
              Boulevard General Motors                0.2          2.08         114%
              Total                                   9.9          2.50          97%



Component B. Water and Sanitation

Households that lack access to drinking water are forced to collect or purchase water from other
sources, which not only limits the supply for water available for cooking, personal hygiene and
household cleaning but also increases the risk of water contamination. Likewise, results from
recent field studies (Chacón, 2007) have shown that lack of access to sanitation and improper use
of latrines, especially during the rainy season, increase health risks due to the proliferation of
insects and parasites that lead to gastrointestinal diseases. The lack of safe water safety has a very
high economic impact relative to other factors, including direct costs associated with health
treatment of water-borne diseases and indirect costs associated to lost days of work. Moreover,
economic costs associated to lack of access to water and sanitation have a disproportional
negative effect on lower income groups due to their increase vulnerability to water-borne diseases.
The following factors were taken into consideration for the economic analysis of the water and
sanitation component:




                                                 43
                   Table 8. Factors taken into consideration for economic analysis of
                                  Component B ­ Water and sanitation
                   Economic Analysis of Component B ­ Water and Sanitation Services
                                               Estimated costs
                                                                                           A total of Mx$1.1
Investment costs
                                                                                        billion over four years
Annual disinfecting costs per family (based on the utilization of sodium hypochlorite    Avg. of Mx$62,800
and 40 liters per family)                                                                       per year
                                                                                        Avg. of Mx$1.4 billion
Annual operation and maintenance costs
                                                                                                per year
                                               Estimated Benefits
Unitary treatment cost per health event due to water-borne gastrointestinal diseases          Mx$1,475
Average number of beneficiaries per year of Component B                                       109,792
Average number of health events attributed to water-borne gastrointestinal diseases
                                                                                               329,376
each year among beneficiaries under Component B
Average number of adults of productive age that are affected by water-borne
gastrointestinal diseases each year among beneficiaries under Component B (i.e., 47            154,807
percent of affected population)
Average number of working adults affected by water-borne gastrointestinal diseases
                                                                                               46,442
each year among beneficiary adults (i.e., 30 percent of affected adults)
Average number of lost man days of work due to health event related to water-borne
                                                                                               5 days
gastrointestinal disease
Minimum daily wage in Guanajuato                                                              Mx$54.47
                                               Other assumptions
Life span of water and sanitation infrastructure                                              25 years
Discount rate                                                                                   12%

Costs
   Investment cost
   A total investment of Mx$1.1 billion over four years (2005 to 2009).
   Operation and maintenance costs
   Annual disinfecting costs per family based on the utilization of sodium hypochlorite and 40
      liters per family (Escalas Cañellas, 2006).
   Annual operation and maintenance costs of Mx$1.4 billion per year, including energy costs
      related to pumping and personnel costs (data provided by the CEAG in March 2010).
Benefits
   Health care costs
   The incidence of several gastrointestinal infections attributable to contaminated water and
      food was taken into consideration for the economic analysis, including intestinal parasites,
      typhoid fever, hepatitis, intestinal infections caused by other organisms, other intestinal
      infections caused by protozoa, paratyphoid and shigellosis. Data for the State of
      Guanajuato corresponding to the period between 2005 and 2008 was obtained from the
      Mexican Secretariat of Health's Morbidity Yearbooks 1984-2008.
   The incidence of these illnesses was subsequently adjusted by the estimated water-borne
      transmission rate.
   The socio-economic characteristics of the beneficiary population were also taken into
      consideration, as the economic costs of water-borne diseases is not uniformly distributed
      and, instead, tend to concentrate among lower-income segments of the population. In
      Mexico, it is estimated that households living in extreme poverty are 2.5 to 3 times more
      likely to be affected by water-borne illnesses that households in higher income strata.
      Likewise, population living in extreme poverty has, on average, four times more children
      than the segment of the population with the highest income segment (SEDESOL, 2004).

                                                     44
   Unitary treatment cost per health event due to water-borne gastrointestinal diseases are
   
   estimated at Mx$1,475 (Muñiz Pereyra, 2006). It is estimated that 85 percent of these costs
   relate to consultations and patient treatment and the remaining 15 percent to hospitalization
   costs.
 Lost work
  It is estimated that approximately 47 percent of all individuals affected by water-borne
   illnesses between 2005 and 2008 were adults of productive age. Among those, 30 percent
   were employed and the remaining 70 percent were dependents.
  Socio-epidemiological studies in Mexico indicate that water-borne illnesses result in an
   average absence from work of one week (Martínez, 2004).
  Based on the average income for the State of Guanajuato, a work day lost is equivalent to
   Mx$54.47.




                                              45
                 Table 9. Economic analysis for Component B ­ Water and sanitation
                            Economic Analysis for Component B - Water and Sanitation
                                                   (Mx$ million)
  Year          Costs            Benefits     Net benefits    Discount rate        Discount Factor   NPV
     t            Ct                 Bt         Bt - Ct             r       1+r               t
                                                                                        (1+r)
     1                1,413.1           491.1       -922.01       0.12      1.12         0.89         -823.22
     2                1,718.5         1,159.7       -558.82       0.12      1.12         0.80         -445.49
     3                1,543.4         1,563.0         19.60       0.12      1.12         0.71           13.95
     4                1,793.9         2,058.7        264.80       0.12      1.12         0.64          168.29
     5                1,674.4         2,058.7        384.29       0.12      1.12         0.57          218.06
     6                1,402.4         2,058.7        656.37       0.12      1.12         0.51          332.54
     7                1,402.4         2,058.7        656.37       0.12      1.12         0.45          296.91
     8                1,402.4         2,058.7        656.37       0.12      1.12         0.40          265.10
     9                1,402.4         2,058.7        656.37       0.12      1.12         0.36          236.69
    10                1,402.4         2,058.7        656.37       0.12      1.12         0.32          211.33
    11                1,402.4         2,058.7        656.37       0.12      1.12         0.29          188.69
    12                1,402.4         2,058.7        656.37       0.12      1.12         0.26          168.47
    13                1,402.4         2,058.7        656.37       0.12      1.12         0.23          150.42
    14                1,402.4         2,058.7        656.37       0.12      1.12         0.20          134.31
    15                1,402.4         2,058.7        656.37       0.12      1.12         0.18          119.92
    16                1,402.4         2,058.7        656.37       0.12      1.12         0.16          107.07
    17                1,402.4         2,058.7        656.37       0.12      1.12         0.15           95.60
    18                1,402.4         2,058.7        656.37       0.12      1.12         0.13           85.35
    19                1,402.4         2,058.7        656.37       0.12      1.12         0.12           76.21
    20                1,402.4         2,058.7        656.37       0.12      1.12         0.10           68.04
    21                1,402.4         2,058.7        656.37       0.12      1.12         0.09           60.75
    22                1,402.4         2,058.7        656.37       0.12      1.12         0.08           54.24
    23                1,402.4         2,058.7        656.37       0.12      1.12         0.07           48.43
    24                1,402.4         2,058.7        656.37       0.12      1.12         0.07           43.24
    25                1,402.4         2,058.7        656.37       0.12      1.12         0.06           38.61
Net Present Value (Mx$ milion)                                                                       1,913.51
Internal Economic Rate of Return - IERR (%)                                                              0.25


Results
The economic analysis for Component B ­ Water and Sanitation rendered a positive Net
Present Value of Mx$1.9 billion over a 25-year span (equivalent to US$149.8 million)
and an Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) of 25 percent. These results indicate
that the investments under this component were economically sound.


b. Financial Analysis
The financial rate of return was not estimated at appraisal.




                                                     46
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
            Names                             Title                      Unit
Lending
Krishna Challa                               Sector Leader             LCSFP
John Henry Stein                           Sector Manager              LCSFW
Jose Luis Irigoyen                         Sector Manager              LCSFT
Mariangeles Sabella                             Counsel                LEGLA
Bernard Becq                                   Manager                 LCOPR
Lea D.Braslavsky                      Lead Procurement Spec.           LCOPR
Maria Angelica Sotomayor                      Economist                LCSFW
Gustavo Saltiel                        Senior Water Engineer           LCSFW
Oscar Alvarado                           Senior W & S Spec.            SASE1
Emmanuel A. James                        Sr. Financial Analyst         LCSFT
Daniel Boyce                      Sr. Financial Management Spec.       LCOAA
Victor Ordonez                     Financial Management Spec.          LCOAA
Charles DiLeva                               Lead Counsel              LEGEN
Juan David Quintero                  Lead Environmental Spec.          LCSEN
Maria Elena Castro                        Sr. Social Scientist         LCSEO
L.Panneer Selvam                      Sr. Environmental Spec.          ESDQC
Jean Roger Mercier                          Lead Specialist            ESDQC
Ernesto Sanchez-Triana              Sr. Environmental Engineer         LCSEN
Ann Jeannette Glauber                         Consultant               LCSEN
Justin Jacinto                     Junior Professional Associate       LCSEN
Paul Bermingham                                 Director               OPCFM
Jeff Ruster                            Lead Financial Analyst            IEF
Fernando Rojas                 Lead Public Sector Management Spec.     LCSPS
Supervision / ICR
Julieta Helena Abad-Oholeguy                Consultant                 LCSTR
Issam A. Abousleiman              Lead Financial Officer/Head of        BDM
Juan Carlos Alvarez                         Sr Counsel                 LEGES
Rosa Elena Bellido                 Language Program Assistant          LCSUW
Daniel J. Boyce                   Country Program Coordinator          SACNA
Alessandra Campanaro              Infrastructure Finance Special       LCSUW
Alan G. Carroll                     Country Operations Adviser         LCC3C
Karla Chaman                        Sr Communications Officer        EXTCD - HIS
Elena Correa                     Senior Social Development Spec         SDV
Mauricio Cuellar                        Sr Transport. Spec.            LCSTR
Ann Jeannette Glauber                 Sr Environmental Spec.           LCSEN
Mary Lisbeth Gonzalez            Senior Social Development Spec        LCSSO
Dmitri Gourfinkel                 Financial Management Analyst         LCSFM
Emmanuel A. James                    Lead Transport Specialist         AFTTR
Efraim Jimenez                              Consultant                 EAPCO
Karina M. Kashiwamoto              Language Program Assistant          LCC1C
Reidar Kvam                        Regional Safeguards Adviser         LCSDE
Jose M. Martinez                  Senior Procurement Specialist        LCSPT
Nicole Andrea Maywah                        Consultant                 ECSSD
David Michaud                      Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.         LCSUW
Angelica Nunez del Campo                  Sr Urban Spec.               LCSUW
Victor Manuel Ordonez Conde      Financial Management Specialis        CTRLP
Diana Ortiz Zuluaga                         Consultant                 AFTUW


                                             47
Francisco Javier Osorio Zago                    Consultant                         LCC1C
Harikrishnan Panneer Selvam                                                        DECDG
Gabriel Penaloza                            Procurement Analyst                    LCSPT
Catarina Isabel Portelo                           Sr Counsel                       LEGLA
Felix Prieto Arbelaez                   Senior Procurement Specialist              LCSPT
Juan D. Quintero                           Sr Environmental Engr.                  EASER
Gustavo Saltiel                                 Sector Leader                      LCSSD
Jennifer J. Sara                                Sector Leader                      LCSSD
Roberto Adrian Senderowitsch                  Country Manager                      LCCDO
Manuel Antonio Vargas Madrigal       Sr Financial Management Specialist            OPCFM
Miguel Vargas-Ramirez                    Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.               LCSUW
Anna Wellenstein                        Country Program Coordinator                 SACIA
Jose Vicente Zevallos                 Senior Social Development Spec               LCSSO
Maria Cecilia Zanetta                   Consultant ­ ICR preparation


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                        Preparation                               Supervision                Cumulative
                                                                                               Year
             Labor        Travel         Other           Labor      Travel       Other        Expenses
 FY 03     139,014.45    52,609.14      13,994.28
 FY 04     169,562.28    54,714.58      42,590.19
 FY 05     120,715.54    36,446.58      37,625.43
 FY 06     178,328.09    72,106.84      35,163.43
 FY 07                                               173,331.70    95,185.37     40,984.91
 FY 08                                                91,018.85    51,151.77     21,763.27
 FY 09                                                98,313.42    32,352.88     39,286.01
 FY 10                                               125,675.15    29,298.88     25,993.28

 TOTAL     607,620.36   215,877.14     129,373.33    488,339.12   207,988.90    128,027.47   1,777,226.32

Total Preparation:      US$ 952,871
Total Supervision:      US$ 824,355
Total Project:          US$1,77,226




                                                    48
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
N.A.




                                      49
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

A stakeholder workshop for the project took place on June 15-16, 2010. The summary comments
are presented in Section 3.6 of the main text. Annex 7: Borrower comments, contains detailed
comments by BANOBRAS and the State of Guanajuato which were taken into account in the
final version of the ICR. The agenda and list of participants is presented below.

   a) Workshop Agenda:
                                               Martes 15-Jun-10
    HORA
                  Sector                        TEMAS A TRATAR                           PARTICIPANTES
    (local)
                                Evaluación Componente Transporte y Carreteras:               BM
     10:10                          Presentación por parte del Banco Mundial de la        BANOBRAS
       a       CARRETERO            evaluación del Componente A. Carreteras.                 SFA
     11:30                          Comentarios de Banco Mundial, BANOBRAS y                 SOP
                                    SOP.                                                 CONSULTORES
                                Evaluación Componente Agua y Saneamiento:
                                                                                             BM
                                    Presentación por parte del Banco Mundial de la
     11:30                                                                                BANOBRAS
                                    evaluación del Componente B. Agua y
       a         AGUA                                                                        SFA
                                    Saneamiento.
     13:00                                                                                  CEAG
                                    Comentarios de Banco Mundial, BANOBRAS y             CONSULTORES
                                    CEAG.
                                Evaluación Componente Vivienda bajos ingresos:               BM
                                    Presentación por parte del Banco Mundial de la        BANOBRAS
   13:00 a
               VIVIENDA             evaluación del Componente C. Vivienda.                   SFA
    14:30
                                    Comentarios de Banco Mundial, BANOBRAS y                COVEG
                                    COVEG.                                               CONSULTORES

                                           Miércoles 16-Jun-10
     HORA
                Sector                       TEMAS A TRATAR                              PARTICIPANTES
     (local)
                                                                                              BM
                           Evaluación del Programa:                                        BANOBRAS
    11:00 a
               TODOS           Presentación ICR de Banco Mundial (40 min).                    SFA
     12:00
                               Comentarios finales.                                      DEPENDENCIAS
                                                                                         CONSULTORES

                           Evaluación del Programa:
                               Comentarios de la Consultoría Global del Informe de
                               Evaluación Global del Programa.                                BM
                                                                                           BANOBRAS
    12:00 a                    Comentarios Generales de BANOBRAS y Gob.
               TODOS                                                                          SFA
      13:30                    Guanajuato
                                                                                         DEPENDENCIAS
                               Comentarios Finales Gob. Guanajuato, BANOBRAS y
                                                                                         CONSULTORES
                               Banco Mundial.
                               Clausura de la Misión de Cierre del Programa.

                                                                                              BM
     14:00 a               Almuerzo con el Secretario y el Subsecretario de Finanzas y
                                                                                           BANOBRAS
      16:00                      Administración del Gobierno de Guanajuato.
                                                                                              SFA




                                                    50
    b) List of ICR Workshop Participants

Nombre                 CARGO              Dependencia    Nombre                  CARGO            Dependencia
                       Secretario de
Gustavo Adolfo         Finanzas y                        Genaro Carreño          Secretario de
González Estrada       Administración     SFA            Muro                    Obra Pública     SOP
                                                                                 Subsecratario
Enrique Castro         Subsecretario de                  Carlos Romero           de
Villalobos             Finanzas           SFA            Villegas                Programación     SOP
                                                                                 Directora
Miguel Augusto         Secretario                        Martha Patricia         General de
Gutiérrez Hernández    Particular         SFA            Quintana Olmos          Programación     SOP
                                                                                 Coordinador
                       Coordinador de                    Víctor Pablo Vélez      de
Javier Luna López      Asesores           SFA            Moreno                  Conservación     SOP
Luis Daniel Flores                                       Ma. Guadalupe           Coordinadora
Ibarra                 Asistente          SFA            Blancarte Garnica       Ambiental        SOP
Belén del Rocío        Coordinadora                      Miguel Ángel Arias      Jefe de
Espinoza Aguirre       FESI               SFA            Aguirre                 departamento     SOP
                                                                                 Jefe de
Hugo Arturo Pérez      Director de                       José Stefanoni          departamento
Guzmán                 Deuda Pública      SFA            Ramírez                 SAP              SOP
Lorena Medina          Jefe de                           Angélica Casillas       Secretaria
Meave                  departamento       SFA            Martínez                Ejecutiva        CEAG
Sara Margarita         Coordinadora de                   José Manuel García      Director de
Velázquez Morales      proyectos          SFA            Rentería                Programación     CEAG
                       Gerente                                                   Sistema
Liliana Reyes          Asistencia                        Israel Sánchez          Financiero del
Castrejón              Técnica            BANOBRAS       Espino                  Agua             CEAG
                       Subgerente
Emilio Héctor Sotelo   Asistencia                                                Director
García                 Técnica            BANOBRAS       Adrián Peña Miranda     General          COVEG
                       Subgerente
Salomón Herrejón       Seguimiento de                                            Director
López                  Proyectos          BANOBRAS       Edgar Hugo Dorsey       Planeación       COVEG
Leopoldo Ortíz         Delegado                          Enrique Octavio         Director de
Martínez               Estatal            BANOBRAS       González Gutiérrez      Área             COVEG
Ernesto Minor          Subdelegado                       Salvador Narvaez
Legarrea               Estatal            BANOBRAS       Juárez                  Asesor FESI      COVEG
Armida Valdés          Especialista                                              Director
Campos                 técnico            BANOBRAS       Enrique kato Miranda    General          IEEG
                                                                                 Jefe de
Miguel Ángel Meza      Especialista                      Antonio Domínguez       Departamento
Muñoz                  técnico            BANOBRAS       Rodríguez               Ambiental        IEEG
                       Gerente del        Banco          Luis M. Quiroz          Coordinador
Greg Browder           proyecto           Mundial        Echegaray               General          COPI
                                                                                 Coordinador
                       Especialista en    Banco          Oswaldo García          de Proyectos
Mauricio Cuellar       Transporte         Mundial        Mandujano               de Inversión     COPI
                       Especialista       Banco                                  Dirección de
Angélica Núñez         Vivienda           Mundial        Silvia Zamorano         Evaluación       SDSH
                       Consultora         Banco          Jaime Elizarraraz
Cecilia Zanetta        Banco Mundial      Mundial        García                  Consultor        Salveli
                       Asistente del      Banco          Maricela Méndez                          Grupo
Patricia Acevedo       proyecto           Mundial        Montoya                 Consultora       Espacio Siete
                                                                                                  Grupo
                                                         Israel Núñez Birrueta   Consultor        Espacio Siete




                                                    51
Annex 7. BANOBRAS Comments on ICR and Project


a) Comments By BANOBRAS, Received on June 18, 2010--After ICR Workshop


                            PRÉSTAMO 7230-ME DEL BIRF

      PROGRAMA DE FINANCIAMIENTO A ESTRATEGIAS SECTORIALES
                          INTEGRALES

                                 Evaluación del Prestatario

   1. Antecedentes

      El préstamo 7230-ME del BIRF por USD 108 millones, en el que BANOBRAS actuó
      como prestatario y ejecutor, fue firmado el 9 de marzo de 2005 y canalizado a su vez al
      Gobierno del Estado de Guanajuato que actuó como Estado Participante, mediante
      contrato de crédito firmado el 20 de mayo de 2005. A lo largo de cuatro años de
      implementación, entre 2005 y 2009, el financiamiento otorgado por los Bancos
      contribuyó al diseño e implementación de estrategias sectoriales para atender las
      necesidades de infraestructura en los sectores de: Transporte y Carreteras, Agua y
      Saneamiento y Vivienda de Bajos Ingresos, así como asistencia técnica, fortalecimiento
      institucional, y la implementación de salvaguardas ambientales y sociales en el estado de
      Guanajuato.

      El diseño del Programa se realizó en respuesta a las necesidades de las entidades
      federativas tras el proceso de descentralización iniciado en México desde 1990. A
      solicitud del Gobierno del Estado de Guanajuato, el Banco Mundial reunió un equipo de
      especialistas que diseñaron esta operación ad hoc para responder a las necesidades del
      estado de Guanajuato. El diseño del programa incorporó importantes innovaciones en sus
      aspectos financieros, operativos y técnicos.

      En materia financiera, bajo el programa, se activó por primera vez un mecanismo que
      permitió el desembolso de los recursos del Banco Mundial en moneda nacional. Este
      mecanismo recurrió al mercado financiero para efectuar la conversión de moneda.
      Asimismo, destaca el hecho de que en una operación de BANOBRAS con el Banco
      Mundial, se puso a disposición del Gobierno del Estado de Guanajuato, acreditado de
      BANOBRAS, un mecanismo de desembolso por anticipos que, a diferencia de las formas
      tradicionales de desembolso del Banco Mundial, aportó la liquidez necesaria para
      financiar el Programa, situación que sin duda contribuyó significativamente para alcanzar
      las metas y objetivos planteados.

      En sus aspectos técnicos, destaca notablemente la decisión del Gobierno del Estado de
      Guanajuato para alentar su transformación mediante numerosas actividades de asistencia
      técnica dirigidas a las áreas de gobierno que participaron en el programa. En estas
      actividades participaron una gran cantidad de funcionarios y técnicos en todos los niveles,
      lo que sin duda, permitió una gran penetración de la propuesta de cambio para el
      incremento de la capacidad de gestión de ésas áreas.



                                              52
   Esta iniciativa del Gobierno Estatal fue atendida mediante el diseño y preparación del
   programa y con la participación directa del Banco Mundial en la canalización de
   asistencia técnica, elementos que resultaron en el fortalecimiento institucional de diversas
   áreas del gobierno, en la mejora en la calidad de la atención a las demandas ciudadanas
   en la entidad y en la mejora de la gestión de gobierno en los aspectos ambientales y
   sociales en la dotación, conservación y mantenimiento de la infraestructura pública y los
   servicios públicos.

   Las innovaciones del programa, representaron un reto importante durante la ejecución del
   programa que llevó a ambos bancos a incrementar el uso de sus capacidades para
   homologar visiones, procesos y esquemas operativos que permitieran un adecuado apoyo
   al Estado de Guanajuato.

2. Evaluación del prestatario - General

   Para BANOBRAS es de suma importancia considerar una evaluación más integral que
   además de calificar las metas sectoriales, incluya todos los elementos financieros y
   operativos que hicieron posible alcanzar las metas y objetivos del programa.

   Adicionalmente, en el proceso de mejora continua de los productos de BANOBRAS y de
   la relación con el Banco Mundial, es de suma importancia conocer el punto de vista y la
   evaluación del Gobierno del Estado de Guanajuato en diversos aspectos en la ejecución
   del programa.

   La retroalimentación de nuestro acreditado permitirá a ambos bancos perfeccionar los
   mecanismos e innovaciones que se probaron por primera vez en México, así como
   también mejorar los diversos ámbitos de participación en materia financiera, de asistencia
   técnica y fortalecimiento institucional.

   Consecuentemente proponemos a ese organismo multilateral que la evaluación del
   programa pueda integrar más ampliamente diversos elementos, tomando en consideración
   la opinión del Gobierno del Estado de Guanajuato, más allá de considerar sólo las metas
   físicas relativas al incremento, conservación y modernización de la infraestructura. Entre
   los elementos a ser evaluados como parte integrante del programa, se pueden considerar
   los siguientes:

           La eficiencia financiera de los recursos (estructura de fondeo, costo, plazos y
           forma de pago).
           La agilidad de las conversiones de moneda y sus impactos financieros.
           La calidad e impactos en la ejecución del Programa en el cumplimiento de los
           acuerdos contractuales.
           La eficiencia de los desembolsos, respecto a las necesidades de liquidez del
           estado (eficiencia y operatividad, menores tiempos de respuesta, el porcentaje del
           anticipo).
           El cumplimiento de la normatividad del programa (beneficios obtenidos,
           obstáculos generados).
           La forma en la que se percibió la eficacia de la asistencia técnica brindada por los
           bancos (recursos comprometidos, penetración, impactos sectoriales).

                                           53
           La capacidad de los Bancos y del Gobierno del estado de Guanajuato para
           instrumentar las innovaciones del Programa.
           La transformación de las áreas de gobierno en sus capacidades de gestión, el
           valor agregado que les implicó el programa (aquí destacan la incorporación de los
           aspectos ambientales y sociales).
           El incremento en la capacidad de las instituciones sectoriales para mantener la
           sostenibilidad de las inversiones y las innovaciones generadas por el programa.

   En general, percibimos que, en las áreas antes citadas, se alcanzaron importantes logros
   que no están suficientemente ponderados en la evaluación actual. En particular, destacan
   los cambios institucionales y la incorporación en las estructuras de gobierno de áreas
   dedicadas específicamente a promover una adecuada gestión ambiental y social en el
   diseño, construcción, mantenimiento y operación de la infraestructura pública.

   El tomar en cuenta los factores descritos, seguramente puede tener repercusiones en una
   mejor calificación de evaluación del Programa, una operación que BANOBRAS
   considera muy exitosa, que dio a nuestro acreditado un valor agregado en materia de
   gestión gubernamental sin precedentes. Este programa deja numerosas lecciones
   aprendidas que son un valioso marco de referencia para otras administraciones locales.

3. Evaluación del prestatario - Específica

   No obstante que, se dieron algunas diferencias entre el documento de evaluación inicial
   (PAD), elaborado por el Banco Mundial en la etapa de preparación del Programa, y el
   Contrato de Préstamo, y que dichas diferencias son atribuibles al diseño de un programa
   innovador, los objetivos generales y las metas específicas a las que se pretendía llegar en
   cada sector fueron alcanzadas en su mayor parte y de manera satisfactoria. Buena parte
   del éxito de esta operación tiene sus fundamentos en que fue preparada especialmente
   para el Estado de Guanajuato desde su concepción:

   En la experiencia de BANOBRAS, la institución a menudo enfrenta retos para adecuar
   las condiciones y objetivos inicialmente preconcebidos en diversos proyectos con el
   Banco Mundial, de manera que se ajusten a las necesidades y objetivos de los
   beneficiarios finales (estados y municipios) de sus programas. Los resultados deben ser
   tomados en cuenta para establecer una base sobre la cual fomentar la evolución entre la
   relación de ambos bancos.

    Objetivos Propuestos
   La Componente de Transporte y Carreteras tuvo un avance satisfactorio a lo largo del
   Programa, entre sus logros destacan: el aumento en la red carretera del estado,
   rehabilitación y construcción de caminos rurales, la implementación del sistema de
   control de calidad HDM-4 del Banco Mundial para mejoras en la condición de los
   pavimentos carreteros, la inclusión de criterios para el mantenimiento rutinario y
   periódico de la red carretera del estado, así como fortalecimiento institucional y asistencia
   técnica para la implementación de un sistema de administración de pavimentos que
   incorpora los criterios de calidad HDM-4 del Banco Mundial.

   La Componente de Agua y Saneamiento tuvo un desempeño notable, superando las
   expectativas de resultados originalmente planteados en la etapa de diseño. Entre sus
   logros más destacados se encuentra el aumento en la cobertura de servicios de agua y

                                           54
drenaje en zonas rurales y urbanas del estado; mejoras en el servicio de cobranza y
facturación; incremento en la eficiencia de Organismos Operadores de Agua; eficiencia
operacional alcanzada por las plantas de tratamiento de aguas negras financiadas con el
Programa; y mejor manejo y planeación de la gestión del agua por parte de CEAG, que
refuerzan su compromiso con una cultura del cuidado y uso responsable del agua.

La Componente de Vivienda fue la única que requirió una revisión de sus objetivos para
reorientar las expectativas originalmente planteadas, ya que la estrategia dirigida a
fomentar préstamos y subsidios a la vivienda de bajos ingresos no pudo ser implementada,
debido principalmente a las debilidades institucionales de la Agencia Ejecutora, en este
caso el IVEG, por lo que se contó con la flexibilidad de los Bancos y el Gobierno de
Guanajuato para incorporar otra estrategia e innovaciones que permitieran atender al
segmento de bajos ingresos de manera más eficiente. Al final del Programa, el IVEG
fortaleció su estructura institucional creando la COVEG, la cual quedó a cargo del
Programa de Lotes con Servicios para familias de bajos ingresos, el cual se espera genere
beneficios en el mediano plazo, incentive una mayor participación del sector privado y
facilite el acceso al financiamiento para vivienda de este segmento de la población en
Guanajuato.

Los Temas Transversales fueron implementados transectorialmente (cross-sector) con el
fin de favorecer el intercambio de información y las lecciones aprendidas en cada sector
en beneficio de las agencias participantes y figuran entre los principales logros del
Programa, a pesar de los retos de coordinación que representó la revisión de diversos
sectores, cada uno con temas transversales como adquisiciones, fortalecimiento
institucional, el tema ambiental y el social.

Asistencia Técnica y Fortalecimiento Institucional: Asesoría y financiamiento a estudios
para mejorar la calidad de los servicios, fortalecer la estructura institucional, la gestión
administrativa, sistemas y encuestas de satisfacción de los usuarios de los servicios
públicos.

Salvaguardas Ambientales y Sociales: El más relevante fue el tema ambiental y social
que permitió incorporar unidades ambientales dentro de la estructura institucional de las
Dependencias participantes, las cuales cuentan con manuales de buenas prácticas
ambientales y sociales para cada dependencia, cuyos estándares de aplicación se
encuentran por encima de la legislación nacional y que actualmente forman parte de la
praxis institucional de la dependencias para todos sus proyectos y no únicamente para los
financiados por el Programa.

 Seguimiento y supervisión
Este préstamo planteó a BANOBRAS la necesidad de un mayor nivel de involucramiento
operativo respecto de su actividad crediticia normal. Las actividades que requirieron más
atención fueron: un seguimiento continuo del Programa, capacitación, asistencia técnica
personal y caso por caso, misiones de seguimiento al estado y diversos esfuerzos de
coordinación. Dichas actividades permitieron a BANOBRAS favorecer la construcción
de capacidades de la entidad y de los municipios participantes, así como cumplir con sus
metas y objetivos institucionales orientados a contribuir al fortalecimiento institucional y
al otorgamiento de asistencia técnica en acciones relacionadas con infraestructura y
servicios públicos.



                                        55
   La supervisión de temas ambientales permitió a BANOBRAS desarrollar capacidades en
   la materia, de la mano con el Estado de Guanajuato, con la preparación del Manual de
   Gestión Ambiental y Social del Programa (MAGAS), el seguimiento de las fichas
   ambientales y el desarrollo y seguimiento de los aspectos sociales del Programa, que
   pudieron ser atendidos de manera satisfactoria en gran parte gracias a la exhaustiva
   asistencia técnica del Banco Mundial en este tema, y la excelente disposición del Estado
   de incorporar las políticas sociales del Banco Mundial establecidas para este programa
   con la directiva OP 4.12.

   El trabajo conjunto de BANOBRAS y del Banco Mundial durante la ejecución del
   Programa fue clave para orientar las acciones necesarias para el logro de los objetivos
   propuestos, para este fin, el Banco Mundial facilitó la integración, en las actividades de
   asistencia técnica y en los temas transversales, de reconocidos expertos a nivel
   internacional para cada uno de los sectores del Programa.

    Experiencia de Ejecución
   Desde la preparación y a lo largo de todo el Programa, el Gobierno del Estado de
   Guanajuato mostró una gran disposición para trabajar con ambos bancos, con el fin de
   cumplir y alcanzar los objetivos del Programa. Esta actitud fue un elemento clave para el
   éxito de un programa con múltiples retos operativos y complejidades técnicas y
   normativas, lo cual implico superar diversos retos que se fueron presentando durante la
   ejecución relacionados con cambios en procesos administrativos a través del learning by
   doing, así como el cumplimiento de las políticas y salvaguardas del Banco Mundial en
   materia de gestión financiera, adquisiciones, gestión ambiental y social.

   El Programa representó una experiencia novedosa para BANOBRAS respecto a la
   implementación de un programa piloto preparado ad hoc por el Banco Mundial para un
   estado de la República, el cual, estuvo sujeto a un buen número de innovaciones por parte
   de los Bancos y las Agencias Ejecutoras. Entre ellos destacan:

       La implementación de perspectivas sectoriales (SWAP) en línea con los proyectos
       planteados en el Plan de Desarrollo del Estado,
       El mecanismo de desembolso por comprobación de gastos (OBD) que se caracteriza
       por:
        1. Permitir a los acreditados suficiente liquidez para implementar de manera más
           rápida y eficiente los recursos del préstamo.
        2. Representa una forma flexible para comprobar gastos elegibles de financiamiento
           del Programa mediante la supervisión y seguimiento de los Bancos.
        3. Permiten tener un seguimiento transparente del origen y destino de los gastos del
           Programa.
       Incorporación de aspectos ambientales y sociales en cada componente.
       Finalmente, las innovaciones que al interior de cada sector realizaron las Agencia
       Ejecutoras, para el logro y, en algunos casos, la superación de las metas previstas
       originalmente.

4. Evaluación del Alcance del Cumplimiento de los Objetivos.

   El adoptar una perspectiva sectorial (SWAP) en el Programa, permitió tener un enfoque
   más ambicioso, que fue mucho más allá de otorgar financiamiento para infraestructura. El
   cumplimiento satisfactorio de los objetivos del Programa lo demuestra, en el sentido de


                                          56
   que una perspectiva sectorial brindó al Gobierno de Guanajuato mayor valor agregado
   respecto a las metas y los objetivos de desarrollo de largo plazo para cada sector
   específico, especialmente cuando el diseño del Programa se enfocó en la plataforma de
   recursos y adelantos con los que contaba el estado de Guanajuato antes de implementar el
   Programa, con el fin de explorar diversas áreas de oportunidad que reportaran un
   progreso significativo. Entre las áreas de oportunidad que se abarcaron en el Programa se
   encuentran: a) mejora de procesos, b) incorporación de mejores prácticas, c) capacitación
   y eficiencias en servicio, d) innovación y desarrollo de capacidades, e) adelantos en
   materia ambiental y social, entre otros.


5. Evaluación del Desempeño del Prestatario durante la preparación y ejecución del
   proyecto
       Lecciones aprendidas
          o La perspectiva sectorial (SWAP) es una perspectiva adecuada para este tipo
              de Programas, por los logros alcanzados conforme a indicadores para cada
              sector y por sus beneficios agregados en el diseño de estrategias sectoriales,
              sin embargo, entre la lecciones que nos brinda la experiencia de este
              Programa, identificamos que cuando el enfoque sectorial se ofrece a varios
              sectores, resulta en costos muy altos durante la preparación, seguimiento y
              ejecución de cada uno de los sectores. Derivado de la experiencia de este
              Programa, un enfoque sectorial concentrado en sólo uno o dos sectores sería
              mucho más eficiente y recomendable.
          o La implementación por etapas tanto de los temas sectoriales como de algunos
              de los temas transversales podrían generar mayores resultados y una mejor
              planeación del Programa.
          o Es recomendable que proyectos de gran visión, como lo fue este Programa,
              consideren realizar el ciclo del proyecto (diseño-ejecución-evaluación-cierre)
              acotado a la duración del periodo de gobierno del Gobierno contratante. Lo
              anterior, debido a que pude representar un riesgo potencial realizar este tipo
              de proyectos durante las transiciones de administraciones distintas en el
              Gobierno, como resultado de procesos electorales. El caso de Guanajuato fue
              una excepción muy afortunada, pues el Gobierno entrante mantuvo un alto
              nivel de compromiso con los objetivos del Programa en beneficio de la
              comunidad guanajuatense.
          o Asegurar esquemas operativos más eficientes y flexibles en las Misiones de
              seguimiento y en los Temas transversales, con el fin de evitar reuniones
              multitudinarias que agoten los recursos humanos del acreditado para revisar
              el desarrollo y avances de objetivos.

       En general, los proyectos del Banco Mundial se caracterizan por tener requerimientos
       operativos específicos y muy detallados, lo cual a menudo se traduce en la creación
       de unidades administrativas específicas dentro de las estructuras de gobierno
       dedicadas exclusivamente a implementar los proyectos fondeados con recursos del
       BIRF. Sin embargo, en el caso del Gobierno del Estado de Guanajuato y sus
       Dependencias, los conocimientos, manuales, capacitación, procedimientos y políticas
       que generó el Programa se incorporaron a la práctica institucional general, y hoy en
       día se implementan para todos los proyectos de las Dependencias y no únicamente
       los financiados con recursos del Banco Mundial para el Programa, por lo que el
       alcance de los logros del Programa no se limita únicamente a los proyectos

                                          57
       financiados con recursos del Banco Mundial, sino también a los diversos proyectos
       que las Dependencias ejecutoras realizan en apego a la experiencia y conocimientos
       aprendidos durante el Programa.

6. Evaluación del desempeño del Banco durante la preparación y ejecución.
       Efectividad de las relaciones con el prestatario

       Las relaciones entre BANOBRAS y el Banco Mundial fueron cordiales en todo
       momento, orientadas a la mejor cooperación y trabajo conjunto.

       Entre los retos más importantes a superar durante la implementación del Programa,
       destacamos las funciones de coordinación de ambos bancos respecto a los diversos
       especialistas que el Banco Mundial facilitó para supervisar el Programa, quienes
       trabajaban con nutridos grupos de las Agencias Ejecutoras, lo cual convertía a las
       misiones en eventos multitudinarios con tiempo restringido para revisar y comentar
       con las agencias todas sus dudas, lo cual, a su vez representaba retos importantes para
       su seguimiento y supervisión. De lo anterior, se capitalizaron la mayor parte de los
       beneficios en cuanto a la amplia experiencia de los especialistas y las
       recomendaciones que contribuyeron ampliamente a que el Programa alcanzara sus
       objetivos y metas.

       Otro de los retos más significativos fue conciliar las diferencias identificadas en los
       objetivos planteados durante la etapa de diseño del Programa, con los objetivos
       plasmados en el Contrato de Préstamo, los cuales prevalecieron durante la ejecución
       del Programa. En el caso particular de vivienda, el Contrato de Préstamo no
       reconocía como elegibles los préstamos de vivienda, los cuales estaban contemplados
       en la descripción del Programa y en el Informe de Evaluación Inicial (PAD). Lo
       anterior, debido a que las limitaciones jurídicas del Contrato no permitieron
       reconocer los gastos del Gobierno del Estado para préstamos de vivienda para esa
       componente. En su momento esto representó una restricción en la ejecución de la
       Componente. Afortunadamente, los Bancos se mantuvieron flexibles y junto con el
       estado se logró la reestructura de esa componente. Sin embargo, es importante
       subrayar que el trabajo conjunto entre BANOBRAS y Banco Mundial desde la
       preparación hasta el cierre de los proyectos es fundamental para evitar este tipo de
       circunstancias en futuras operaciones.

       Lecciones aprendidas
       El Programa requirió flexibilidad por parte de los Bancos para adaptar de mejor
       manera los objetivos del Programa con la realidad que enfrenta un estado particular,
       tomando en cuenta sus fortalezas y limitaciones en la ejecución, por lo que fue
       posible redefinir los objetivos originales que no pudieron realizarse, pero que
       pudieron ser sujetos de replanteamiento, dado el interés y los esfuerzos del Gobierno
       de Guanajuato, con el fin de producir logros en cada sector.

7. Descripción de los arreglos propuestos para una futura operación.
       Flexibilidad operativa.- En la experiencia de BANOBRAS con proyectos del Banco
       Mundial, uno de los factores que previenen la participación de otras entidades
       federativas de México en proyectos financiados por el Banco es la complejidad
       técnica y la carga operativa que implican al ejecutar un proyecto, atendiendo todas las
       normativas y salvaguardas del Banco Mundial. Lo anterior, puede resultar en una

                                           58
   mayor carga operativa por cuenta de los estados lo cual podría desincentivarlos a
   participar en este tipo de financiamiento y podría, eventualmente, convertirse en un
   elemento de mayor peso en las decisiones de una entidad federativa para tomar un
   proyecto con BANOBRAS-Banco Mundial, independientemente del costo financiero
   que representa.
   Perfeccionar el esquema de desembolsos por anticipos.- El esquema de desembolsos
   (OBD) ha demostrado ser un mecanismo muy efectivo para canalizar los recursos de
   BANOBRAS y el Banco Mundial a los acreditados, por lo que se buscaría continuar
   con este mecanismo y perfeccionarlo.
   Aspectos Ambientales y Sociales.- Luego de la experiencia de este Préstamo, que
   permitió avances sustanciales en materia social y ambiental, BANOBRAS está muy
   interesado en continuar incorporando este tema en futuras operaciones, tomando
   como línea de base los resultados y experiencias de este Préstamo, que se han
   convertido en un importante valor agregado de los proyectos que BANOBRAS y el
   Banco Mundial pueden promover en conjunto en nuestro país.
   Conversión Automática.- Este préstamo permitió la conversión automática a pesos
   mexicanos de los desembolsos, lo cual facilitó la transferencia de recursos al
   acreditado de manera rápida y eficiente. Se buscará continuar con este esquema y
   explorar opciones en las que para algunos préstamos sea factible el desembolso tanto
   en moneda nacional como en dólares americanos.
   Fortalecer el esquema de Country Systems. En México y en el trabajo con
   BANOBRAS, el esquema de Country Systems es viable en diversas áreas,
   convendría profundizar estos avances y aprovechar las sinergias creadas en el trabajo
   conjunto, de manera que sea posible reducir la carga operativa, simplificar y
   flexibilizar mecanismos de revisión y supervisión, así como validar el papel de
   BANOBRAS como garante en la supervisión de estas áreas, tomando en
   consideración que en los años que llevamos de trabajar juntos, jamás se ha presentado
   ninguna incidencia. Lo anterior permitiría que nuestra relación de trabajo evolucione
   del modelo tradicional al reforzamiento de capacidades institucionales de
   BANOBRAS en áreas de probada eficiencia y compromiso en nuestras operaciones
   conjuntas, resultado de años de trabajo conjunto entre ambas instituciones.
   Acompañamiento continuo de la Banca de Desarrollo y en los casos que competen a
   BANOBRAS involucrar a la institución durante todo el ciclo del proyecto, desde el
   diseño y preparación, hasta el cierre, lo cual contribuirá al desarrollo de mejores
   esquemas de coordinación, retroalimentación y complementación institucional en
   proyectos conjuntos.
   Mayor comprensión de los procesos de BANOBRAS, de la Secretaría de Hacienda y
   Crédito Público (SHCP) y del proceso de otorgamiento del crédito subnacional en las
   operaciones que realizamos en conjunto, así como de los procesos del Banco Mundial,
   en aras de un mayor conocimiento de los procedimientos que por ley las instituciones
   realizan para el otorgamiento de financiamiento y la autorización de esquemas
   operativos innovadores que nos permitan unir sinergias para eficientar y agilizar
   nuestros procesos de otorgamiento de crédito.




                                      59
b) Comments By State of Guanajuato, Received on June 18, 2010--After ICR Workshop

Con respecto a la calificación otorgada por Banco Mundial en su documento del Implementation
Competion Report (ICR) a los sectores e instituciones participantes en el proyecto FESI, la
coordinación del programa en el Gobierno del Estado de Guanajuato emite los siguientes
comentarios al respecto, para ser considerados por el equipo de evaluación de Banco Mundial:

        La evaluación toma como referencia indicadores de resultados establecidos en el marco
        lógico. Este marco lógico fue diseñado en la etapa de preparación del programa y Banco
        Mundial se ha autoevaluado en esta primera etapa como Moderadamente Insatisfactorio.

        Al considerar que el diseño del proyecto no fue correctamente formulado, en la etapa de
        evaluación habría que considerar que los indicadores mediante los cuales se quiere
        comparar el antes y después de FESI en el Estado de Guanajuato, no pueden ser objetivos
        ni suponer que abarcan todos los aspectos que comprendieron el desarrollo del proyecto
        FESI.

        Derivado de lo anterior, se recomienda que en este proyecto en particular Banco Mundial
        no utilice la metodología de evaluación de la misma forma como se utiliza para cualquier
        otro programa, dado que se estaría arrastrando con los errores iniciales del diseño del
        proyecto hasta su etapa de evaluación.

Aunado a lo anterior, se propone considerar también las externalidades positivas para el Gobierno
del Estado de la implementación de FESI. Que si bien no se consideraron como objetivos del
proyecto, sí valdría la pena tomarlas en cuenta porque se refieren a la mejora de la administración
pública estatal. La evaluación del programa de Financiamiento a Estrategias Sectoriales Integrales,
desde el punto de vista del sub-prestatario, es decir, del Gobierno del Estado de Guanajuato, en
particular la Secretaría de Finanzas y Administración en donde se designó la coordinación del
Programa, es el siguiente:

1.- Con respecto al diseño del proyecto. Cualquier programa en el que intervengan siete
dependencias y/o entidades8 dentro de cualquier nivel de gobierno, además de dos o más áreas
dentro de éstas, requiere de un gran esfuerzo de coordinación de todas las agencias participantes,
en este caso de Banco Mundial, de BANOBRAS y de la coordinación del programa del Gobierno
del Estado. En este sentido, el diseño del programa FESI no consideró esta posible complicación,
y no se previó un mejor mecanismo de coordinación y seguimiento que permitiera una operación
más sencilla y mejor articulada. De la misma manera, Banco Mundial tuvo una visión bastante
optimista en cuanto a las políticas de salvaguardas y licitación que llevaba a cabo el Gobierno del
Estado, de manera que no se consideró el tiempo que se requirió para el aprendizaje de las normas
totalmente diferentes del programa.




8
  Secretaría de Obra Pública (SOP), Comisión Estatal del Agua (CEAG), Comisión de
Vivienda del Estado de Guanajuato (COVEG), Instituto de Ecología (IEEG), Secretaría de
Desarrollo Social y Humano (SDSH), Coordinación General de Programación y Gestión de
la Inversión Pública (COPI), y Secretaría de Finanzas y Administración (SFA). Durante
algún tiempo también participó la Unidad de Acceso a la Información.


                                                60
2.- Objetivos propuestos. Con respecto al objetivo final del programa, éste pudo haber sido
alcanzado sin la necesidad de aplicar un punto de vista sectorial; por ejemplo, apoyar el desarrollo
de infraestructura de un sector a la vez. Pareciera que implementar un punto de vista sectorial
tendría como finalidad disminuir variables de impacto, como pobreza, salud, educación, etc., y
como objetivo último, que el Estado alcance un mayor nivel de desarrollo. En este sentido, el
objetivo inicial fue modificado con la finalidad de alcanzar resultados menos ambiciosos, tal
como sucedió.

3.- Ejecución. El problema con el mecanismo de comunicación dependencia/entidad de Gobierno
del Estado ­ coordinación del programa (SFA) ­ Delegación Estatal de BANOBRAS ­ Oficinas
centrales de BANOBRAS ­ Banco Mundial y viceversa, fue que se derivaron retrasos en la
ejecución de las obras y por ende, retrasos en la disposición del préstamo. Esto también conllevó
a que el Estado de Guanajuato tuviera que pagar una comisión por saldos nos dispuestos al
prestatario, en esta caso BANOBRAS. Por otra parte, es imprescindible que la duración del
proyecto, considerando posibles extensiones, no traspase la duración de una administración.
Varios de los retrasos en la ejecución de FESI fueron derivados del cambio de funcionarios
dentro de las dependencias del Gobierno del Estado, pero también dentro del propio Banco
Mundial, cuya diferencia de criterios entre sí confundía a los ejecutores.

4.- Cumplimiento de los objetivos. La implementación de mejores prácticas de gestión en el
Gobierno del Estado, así como el desarrollo de mayor infraestructura en los tres sectores del
programa, fueron logrados gracias a FESI. Un logro primordial fue la incorporación de aspectos
ambientales y sociales a la construcción de obras de cualquier índole dentro del Estado.

5.- Desempeño del prestatario. Durante la ejecución del programa, aún y cuando sólo se contaba
con un funcionario en BANOBRAS para resolver las cuestiones de licitación y adquisición de
bienes, su servicio fue vasto, pero no suficiente. En la práctica, el papel de BANOBRAS en
general, y de la Delegación en particular, fue de oficialía de partes. Cuando la Delegación contó
con un funcionario dedicado exclusivamente a la implementación del programa, los trámites
fueron más ágiles, pero no tenía facultades de autorizar gestiones. Los especialistas sectoriales de
Banco Mundial fueron quienes trabajaron de la mano con los funcionarios de Gobierno del
Estado en todo el desarrollo del programa. De la misma manera, durante la reestructura y
modificación del Manual de Operaciones, la coordinación, en conjunto con Banco Mundial
fueron quienes aportaron las soluciones a los problemas que se presentaron durante la vida del
proyecto. Como lección aprendida, se propone dar un papel más importante a la función de la
Delegación Estatal, suprimiendo la participación de las oficinas centrales, o bien, eliminar la
intervención de la primera desde el diseño del proyecto. De la misma manera, BANOBRAS
deberá atender y acompañar de manera más cercana al sub prestatario y contar con la
participación de funcionarios de mayor nivel de las oficinas centrales.

6.- Desempeño de Banco Mundial. En cuanto a la atención de los funcionarios de Banco
Mundial al Estado de Guanajuato, la coordinación opina que la mayoría de las veces fue próxima
y enfocada a resolver los problemas de implementación de manera expedita. No obstante, los
funcionarios del Banco debieran estar más concientes de las circunstancias económicas,
administrativas y políticas imperantes del sub prestatario, ya que en algunas ocasiones las
propuestas realizadas no se lograban consolidar por el desconocimiento de las condiciones
intrínsecas del Estado. Lo anterior aunado a la constante rotación de los especialistas, así como
del líder del proyecto, causaron la percepción por parte de los ejecutores de una desatención de
Banco Mundial y desdén al programa.



                                                61
7.- Cambios propuestos para una futura operación (si es el caso). El concepto de SWAP
deberá ser revisado a profundidad, ya que esta experiencia demuestra que los mecanismos de
coordinación y ejecución se complican en demasía cuando se trata de implementar un proyecto en
varios sectores a la vez. La función del prestatario durante la ejecución del programa deberá tener
un papel más activo para con el sub prestatario, o bien, ser limitado a receptor de los pagos del
préstamo. De la misma manera, los mecanismos de comunicación deberán estar estructurados de
manera más ágil y cercana, para que no sean un factor de demora en la ejecución del mismo. El
programa se deberá implementar durante la duración de una sola administración, y los
funcionarios de Banco Mundial deberán ser los mismos durante toda la duración del proyecto. De
esta manera, se garantiza que el tiempo de aprendizaje de todos los participantes del programa sea
el mínimo necesario.




                                                62
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

Key Project Documents:

World Bank (2004), Mexico - Decentralized Infrastructure Reform and Development Loan
   Project, Project Appraisal Document. Report No. 28599-ME, 23 April 2004, Washington,
   D.C.

World Bank (2003-2010), Documents in Project's Electronic File, including Loan Agreement,
   Loan Amendments, Aide Memoirs, Back-to-Office Reports, Project Status Reports, Project
   Financial Assessments, and Project Procurement Assessments; IRIS, Washington, D.C.

BANOBRAS-Estado de Guanajuato (2005, Updated in 2009): FESI-Manual de Operación del
  Programa. Filed in Iris.

BANOBRAS (2004) MX-Decentralized Infrastructure Reform and Development Loan:
  Environmental and Social Manual (Spanish and English). Available in World Bank Infoshop
  and Image Bank.

Zevallos, J. and Browder, G. (2009), Land Acquisition and Resettlement Associated with the
   Decentralized Infrastructure Reform and Development Project in Mexico. Filed in Iris.

SOG Evaluation Documents:

Elirraraz García, J. (2010), Programa de Financiamiento de Estrategias Sectoriales Integrales ­
    FESI: Estudio de Evaluación Expost Para El Componente de Transporte. Filed in Iris.

Méndez, M. and Núñez, I. (2010), Programa de Financiamiento de Estrategias Sectoriales
   Integrales - Evaluación Global, Filed in Iris.

Méndez, M. (2010), FESI - Performance Assessment of the Low-Income Housing Component,
   Filed in Iris.

Méndez, M. (2010), FESI- EVALUACIÓN DE PROCEDIMIENTOS DE AFECTACIONES
   RELACIONADAS CON LA LIBERACIÓN DEL DERECHO DE VÍA Y REASENTAMIENTOS.
   Filed in IRIS.

Miranda Peña, R. and Maruri Aguilar, J. (2010), Evaluación Expost del Componente de Agua y
   Saneamiento del Programa de Financiamiento de Estrategias Sectoriales Integrales. Filed in
   IRIS.

Other Key Documents:

World Bank (2008), Mexico - Country Partnership Strategy 2008-20013, Report No. 42846-ME,
   3 March 2008, Washington, DC.

World Bank (2007), Implementing Output-Based Disbursement Mechanisms for Investment
   Operations, Operational/Technical Guidance Note to Staff, OPCS, 2 April 2007, Washington.



                                              63
World Bank (2004), Mexico - Country Partnership Strategy 2005-2008, Report No. 28141-ME,
   18 March 2004, Washington, DC.

World Bank (2002), Mexico - State-Level Public Expenditure Review: The Case of Guanajuato,
   Available in Image Bank.
World Bank Board Report (2004): Issues in Using Country Systems in Bank Operations, August
   20, 2004. Available in Infoshop.

LAC Region Power Point Presentation to World Bank Board: Mexico Decentralized
  Infrastructure Reform and Development Loan Progress Report, July 18, 2006. Filed in IRIS.




                                            64
              Tijuana
                            Mexicali                                                                                                                                               UNITED STAT ES O F A M ERICA
                                                                                                                                                                                   UNIT ED STATES OF AMERICA
               Ensanada
                                                         Sonoita
                                       San                                                                                             Ciudad Juárez
                                     Felipe                                    Nogales                                                 Rio
                                                                                                   Agua




                                                                                                                                         Ri av
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MEXICO




                                                                                                                                           oG
                                                                                                   Prieta                                           r an




                                                                                                                                            Br
                                                                                                                                               o           d
                                BAJA




                                                                                                                                                           e
                             CALIFORNIA                                        SONORA




                                                                                                   Yaqui
                                                                                                                                                   Ojinaga
                                                                      Hermosillo
                                                                                                                        Chihuahua                                                     Sa
                                                                                                                                                                                        la
                                                                                   Guaymas                             CHIHUAHUA




                                                                                                                                                                                           do
                                                            Santa
                                                           Rosalia                                                              Con
                                                                                                                                      chos
                                                                                                                                                                           COAHUILA                 Laredo
                                                                                         Navojoa
                                                                                                                   Fu
                                                                                                                     ert
                                                                                                                        e                                                                    Frontera

                                                                      Loreto                                                                                                                      NUEVO
                                                                                           Los Mochis                                                                                              LEON
                                                                    BAJA                                                                                                                              Monterrey                      Matamoros                                 Gulf        of             Mexico
                                                                                                                                                                 Torreón             Saltíllo
                                                                 CALIFORNIA
                                                                     SUR                                    Culiacán                   DURANGO
                                                                           La Paz                                                                                                                                TAMAULIPAS
                                                                                                                       S III
                                                                                                                       S
                                                                                                                       S
                                                                                                                         N




                                                                                                                                             Durango                                                                   Ciudad
                                                                                                                             A




                                                                                                                                                                        ZACATECAS
                                                                                                                               L
                                                                                                                               LO
                                                                                                                               L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Victória
                                                                                                                                   A
                                                                                                                                   A
                                                                                                                                   A




                                                                                                                       Mazatlán
                                                                         Cabo San Lucas                                                                                                    SAN LUIS
                                                                                                                                                                       Zacatecas
                             PACIFIC                                                                                                                                                        POTOSI                                Tampico
                                                                                             AGUASCALIENTES                                                                                                                                      QUERÉTARO
                                                                                                                                       NAYARIT                                                 San Luis
                                                                                                                                                                  Aguascalientes               Potosí
                               OCEAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Cancun
                                                                                                                                                               Le




                                                                                                                                              Tepic                                                                         VERACRUZ                                                            Merida
                                                                                                                                                                 rm




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HIDALGO
                                                                                                                                                                   a




                                                                                                           GUANAJUATO                                                                           Guanajuato                                                                                           YUCATAN                  Cozumel
                                                                                                                             Puerto Vallarta                                 Guadalajara               Querétaro                                   DISTRITO FEDERAL
                                                                                                                                                       JALISCO                                                             Pachuca                                                     Campeche
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TLAXCALA
                                                                                                                                                                                                        MEXICO                                                                                                QUINTANA
            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                     MEXICO                                                              Morelia               CITY                                Jalapa                                                            ROO
            The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                         Toluca                        Tlaxcala
            shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                             Colima                                                                                       Veracruz                                                        Chetumal
            Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                       Cuernavaca                     Puebla
            endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                           COLIMA                   MICHOACAN                                                                                                  CAMPECHE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PUEBLA                                    TABASCO
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Balsas                                                          Villahermosa
                                                                                                                                                                                             GUERRERO                 Chilpancingo                                                                                 BELIZE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CHIAPAS          um
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Oaxaca                                                   ac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                in
                                   MAIN CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                      OAXACA                                                 ta
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Acapulco                                                                 Tuxtla
                                   STATE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tehuantepec       Gutierrez
                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                             MORELOS                              Puerto
                                                                                                                         0        100              200           300 Kilometers                                                   Escondido                                                GUATEMALA
                                   STATE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tapachula                                   HONDURAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 37938
JUNE 2010




                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                              0       50          100      150         200 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SALVADOR
