                                   Document of
                                  The World Bank


                                                     Report No: ICR00002900



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                     (IDA-H1020, IDA-47190 & TF-53677)

                                      ON A

                                     GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 35.2 MILLION
                          (US$ 51 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      FOR A

                REACHING OUT-OF-SCHOOL CHILDREN PROJECT

                                       AND

                           ADDITIONAL FINANCING CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 23.1 MILLION
                          (US$ 35 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                      PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH



                                 December 23, 2013




Human Development Sector
South Asia Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 2013)

                              Currency Unit = Taka
                              Tk. 1.00 = US$ 0.0129
                              US$ 1.00 = Tk. 77.68

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                                 July 1 – June 30

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ACF       Award Confirmation Form
AF        Additional Financing
AOP       Annual Operation Plan
AY        Academic Year
BANBEIS   Bangladesh Bureau of Educational Information and Statistics
BCCP      Bangladesh Center for Communication Programs
CAMPE     Campaign for Popular Education in Bangladesh
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CBO       Community-based Organization
CHF       Swiss franc
CHT       Chittagong Hill Tracts
CMC       Center Management Committee
CPIA      Country Policy and Institution Assessment
DGA       Development Grant Agreement
DP        Development Partner
DPE       Directorate of Primary Education
DPP       Development Project Proforma
EA        Economic Analysis
ECNEC     Executive Committee for National Economic Council
EFA       Education for All
EMIS      Education Management Information System
ERP       Education Resource Provider
ESP       Education Service Provider
FA        Financing Agreement
FMR       Financial Management Report
GER       Gross enrollment rate
GOB       Government of Bangladesh
GPS       Government Primary Schools
ICCR      Implementation Completion and Results Report (also referred to as “ICR”)
IDA       International Development Association
IP        Indigenous Peoples
I-PRSP    Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
ISDS      Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
KI        Key Indicator
LC        Learning Center
LGED      Local Government Engineering Department
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS           Monitoring Information System
MoPME         Ministry of Primary and Mass Education
MoU           Memorandum of Understanding
MTR           Mid-Term Review
NER           Net enrollment rate
NFE           Non-formal education
NGO           Non-Government Organization
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PD            Project Director
PEDPII        Primary Education Development Project II
PEDP3         Primary Education Development Program 3
PD            Project Director
PDO           Project Development Objective
RNGPS         Registered Non-government Primary Schools
ROSC          Reaching Out-of-School Children project (also referred to as “ROSC-1”)
ROSC-II       Reaching Out-of-School Children Project II
ROSCU         Reaching Out-of-School Children Unit
SDC           Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation
SKT           Shishu Kallyan Trust
SWAp          Sector-wide Approach
Tk            Bangladesh Taka
UEO           Upazila Education Officer




Vice President:                              Philippe Le Houerou
Country Director:                            Johannes C.M. Zutt
Sector Manager:                              Amit Dar
Project Team Leaders:                        Dilip Parajuli/Subrata S. Dhar
ICR Team Leaders:                            Susan Opper/Syed Rashed Al-Zayed Josh
                                  BANGLADESH
                    REACHING OUT-OF-SCHOOL CHILDREN PROJECT



                                                   CONTENTS


DATASHEET ................................................................................................................. v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 15
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 24
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 24
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 27
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 28
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 30
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 31
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 37
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 39
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 41
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 48
MAP
                                   DATASHEET
A. Basic Information
                                                                        Bangladesh Reaching
Country:              Bangladesh              Project Name:             Out-of-School Children
                                                                        Project
                                                                        IDA-H1020-BD, IDA-
Project ID:           P086791                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                        47190,TF-53677
ICR Date:             12/20/2013              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                        GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:   SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                        BANGLADESH
Original Total
                      XDR 35.20M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 51.13M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:       XDR 58.30M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Directorate of Primary Education (DPE), Ministry of Primary and
Mass Education (MoPME)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: Government of the Swiss Confederation
B. Key Dates
                                                                             Revised / Actual
     Process            Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                 Date(s)
                                   Effectiveness:
Concept Review:       11/03/2003   Original Grant             09/22/2004        09/22/2004
                                   Additional Fin.            06/07/2010
                                                                                02/22/2011
Appraisal:            03/25/2004   Restructuring(s):
                                                                                04/04/2013
Approval:             06/17/2004   Mid-term Review:           07/31/2007        02/10/2008
                                   Closing:                   06/30/2010        06/30/2013
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Negligible to Low
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                Borrower          Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                          Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                            None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA): 03/11/2004
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                            None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social services                                              55                   55
Primary education                                                  45                   45


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                   50                  50
Gender                                                              25                  25
Participation and civic engagement                                  25                  25

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou              Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Johannes C.M. Zutt                  Christine I. Wallich
Sector Manager:            Amit Dar                            Michelle Riboud
Project Team Leaders:      Dilip Parajuli/Subrata S. Dhar      Amit Dar/Hena G. Mukherjee
                           Susan Opper/
ICR Team Leaders:
                           Syed Rashed Al-Zayed Josh
                           Susan Opper/
ICR Primary Authors:
                           Syed Rashed Al-Zayed Josh

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The key objective of the Project is to reduce the number of out-of-school children
through improved access, quality and efficiency in primary education, especially for the
disadvantaged children, in support of GOB's national Education for All (EFA) goal.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was unchanged during the project.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                             Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                approval          Target       Completion or
                                              documents)          Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     The number of out-of-school children reduced by about 0.75 million.
Value
quantitative or   2.5 million                  2 million       1.75 million   1.66 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2004                09/16/2004          02/22/2011     12/31/2012
Comments          Target surpassed by more than 10%: ROSC reached total of 0.84 million
(incl. %          children. At Additional Financing, the target for reducing "Number of out-of-
achievement)      school children reduced” was revised to 0.75m from the original 0.50m.
                  Percentage of students reaching expected competency level based on teacher's
Indicator 2 :
                  assessment in Bangla and Mathematics not less than 65%.
Value
                  Not Applicable (schools did
quantitative or   not exist prior to the project)
                                                  65%                         80%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2004                   06/30/2004                     12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Target surpassed by nearly 25%.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Student grade completion rate not less than 85%.
Value
                  Not Applicable (schools did
quantitative or   not exist prior to the project)
                                                  80%          85%            90%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2004                   06/30/2004      02/22/2011     12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Target surpassed. At Additional Financing, the target was revised to 85%.
achievement)
                  Student transition rate to public and NGO schools to Grade 4 (from Grade 3) not
Indicator 4 :
                  less than 80%, or to Grade 6 (from Grade 5) not less than 50%.
                                                                Not less than
                                              Not less than 80% 80% from
Value                                         from Grade 3 to 4 Grade 3 to 4
                Not Applicable (schools did
quantitative or not exist prior to the project)
Qualitative)                                    Not less than 70% Not less than 70% from Grade 5
                                                from Grade 5 to 6 50% from      to 6
                                                                  Grade 5 to 6
Date achieved 06/30/2004                        06/30/2004        02/22/2011    12/31/2012
                Target surpassed by 40%. At Additional Financing, based on implementation
Comments
                experience, the transition rate to Grade 6 was reduced to "not less than 50%"
(incl. %
                from the original "not less than 70%." Transition rate from Grade 3 to 4
achievement)
                consistently remained over 80% but this indicator became less important over
                  time as ROSC learning centers (LCs) provided the full five years of education.
                  At preparation it was felt that some LCs might only be able to provide 3 years of
                  education so that students would need to transition to other schools after Grade 3.
Indicator 5 :     About 2.9 million student years supported for beneficiary students.
Value
quantitative or   0                            1.4 million            2.9 million   2.94 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2004                  06/30/2004              02/22/2011    12/31/2012
Comments
                  Target met. At Additional Financing, this was revised to 2.9m from the original
(incl. %
                  1.4m.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Average student attendance rate not less than 75%.
Value
                  Not Applicable (schools did
quantitative or   not exist prior to the project)
                                                  Not less than 75%                 90%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2004                  06/30/2004                            12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Target surpassed by nearly 20%.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Average teacher attendance rate not less than 90%.
Value
                  Not Applicable (schools did Note less than
quantitative or   not exist prior to the project) 90%
                                                                                    90%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2004                  06/30/2004                            12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Target met.
achievement)
                  Students in each grade to have on average, the same number of textbooks as
Indicator 8 :
                  those in corresponding grades in the formal primary education system.
Value
                  Not Applicable (schools did
quantitative or   not exist prior to the project)
                                                  100%                              99%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2004                06/30/2004                       12/31/2012
Comments          Target met. The project ensured textbook provision in ROSC LCs was same as
(incl. %          (the National Curriculum and Textbook Board) textbooks provided to formal
achievement)      primary schools.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                           Original Target                            Actual Value
                                                             Formally
                                             Values (from                              Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                           Revised
                                              approval                                Completion or
                                                           Target Values
                                             documents)                               Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of LCs established.
Value
(quantitative   0                        15,000              22,500          23,695
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2004                 06/30/2004          02/22/2011      12/31/2012
Comments        Target surpassed. At Additional Financing, this was revised to 22,500 (including
(incl. %          an additional 7,500 in new Upazilas). Adding the Shishu Kallyan Trust schools
achievement)      covered by the project brings the overall total schools to 23,768.
Indicator 2 :     Number of students initially enrolled in LCs
Value
quantitative or   0                             500,000         750,000        778,147
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2004                    06/30/2004      02/22/2011     12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Target surpassed. At additional financing, target was revised to 750,000.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Bi-annual disbursement of allowances and grants to be maintained regularly
Value
                  Not Applicable (schools did
quantitative or   not exist prior to the project)
                                                  Yes                          Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2004                    06/30/2004                     12/31/2012
Comments
                  This was one of the basic disbursement procedures that was monitored
(incl. %
                  rigorously and it proceeded as planned.
achievement)
                  Community Outreach efforts as measured by number of participants in CMC
Indicator 4:
                  basic training sessions
Value
quantitative or   0                             75,000          112,500        122,667
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2004                    06/30/2004      02/22/2011     12/31/2012
Comments
                  Target surpassed by nearly 10%. The original target had estimated 5 participants
(incl. %
                  per LC/CMC.
achievement)
                  ROSC Committee is functional and provides policy and implementation
Indicator 5 :
                  guidance to ROSCU for project operation.
Value
                  Not Applicable (schools did
quantitative or   not exist prior to the project)
                                                  Yes                          Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2004                06/30/2004                      12/31/2012
Comments          ROSC Committee meetings were held with regularity and provided necessary
(incl. %          support to ROSCU on project implementation, and leadership in garnering
achievement)      broad-based support and ownership at the national level.
Indicator 6 :     M&E activities carried out as planned
Value
                  Not Applicable (schools did
quantitative or   not exist prior to the project)
                                                  Yes                          Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2004                  06/30/2004                          12/31/2012
                  All M&E activities in the PAD were carried out. These included: (i) collection
                  and processing of self-reported data from LCs every six months to process
Comments          disbursement of grants and allowances; (ii) verification through 20% sample
(incl. %          field monitoring every year; (iii) impact evaluation baseline and follow-up
achievement)      surveys; (iv) quantitative (learning levels, tracer study) and qualitative
                  assessments (service providers); (v) NFE study; and (vi) performance audits of
                  grants and allowances. (ii)-(vi) were commissioned to third parties.
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                               Actual
        Date ISR
No.                          DO                          IP                Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                           (USD millions)
  1    09/16/2004       Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.00
  2    03/08/2005   Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                2.38
  3    08/29/2005   Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                2.39
  4    02/27/2006       Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory                2.90
  5    08/24/2006       Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       5.68
  6    02/06/2007       Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       8.79
  7    08/01/2007       Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     14.97
  8    01/24/2008       Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     17.44
  9    07/29/2008       Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     23.23
 10    01/28/2009       Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory              26.59
 11    07/20/2009       Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory              31.62
 12    01/29/2010       Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     41.91
 13    09/05/2010       Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     49.00
 14    03/21/2011       Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     59.67
 15    09/26/2011       Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     77.41
 16    04/11/2012       Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     80.22
 17    10/25/2012       Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     85.13
 18    06/05/2013       Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     86.48

H. Restructuring (if any)

                              ISR Ratings at      Amount
Restructuring     Board        Restructuring    Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring
  Date(s)        Approved      DO        IP     Restructuring & Key Changes Made
                PDO Change                        in USD
                                                  millions
02/22/2011          na          S        S         56.67      (i) Scale up operations to 30
                                                                additional Upazilas (Additional
                                                                Financing); (ii) extend closing
                                                                date to align with AF; (iii)
                                                                adjust targets to align with AF
                                                                and make more realistic; iv)
                                                                increase IDA financing
                                                                percentages in selected
                                                                categories to meet changed
                                                                disbursement needs as result of
                                                                AF scale up, extension of
                                                                closing date, and closing of
                                                                Swiss co-financing TF-53677.

04/04/2013                      S        S          86.48       Re-allocate amounts of the
                    na                                          original Grant H01020-BD to
                                                                each category.
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1. The project was prepared at a time of general recognition that Bangladesh had made
impressive gains in access to primary education, but significant challenges remained for reaching
remaining millions of out-of-school children and delivering quality education to all. The out-of-
school population was particularly disadvantaged: living in extreme poverty, in remote rural areas
(including hard to reach regions in the Chittagong Hill Tracts and other tribal regions), on the
streets, and with displaced families who had migrated from rural to urban areas.

2. Enrollment trends. By 2002, Bangladesh had a primary gross enrollment rate of 92 percent
(up from 76 percent in 1991) with gender parity. Nearly 17.7 million students were enrolled in
78,000 primary schools across the 484 Upazilas.1 Yet, dropout rates averaged nearly 50 percent,
and together with the net enrollment rate (NER) of 80 percent at the primary level, suggested that
well over three million children of primary school age (6-10 years) were out of school either
because they had never enrolled or had dropped out. Close to 8 million children aged 6-14 (the
target age for the ROSC project) were also out of school in 2001.

3. Government response. The Government issued an Interim-Poverty Reduction Support
Program (March 2003) that sought to narrow an ever-widening “quality divide” in education
between the rich and the poor, and to increase access to education for the poor to ensure an
efficient and sustainable approach to equitable, quality education. The related agenda in the
education sector, the National Plan of Action for Education for all (EFA) 2003-2015, embraced
all the international EFA goals for making education compulsory, accessible and all-inclusive.
The Government enhanced its response by: (a) implementing (from July 2003) a second Primary
Education Development Program (PEDPII) aimed at boosting access to schooling, improving
education quality, and ameliorating overall management and oversight of the state’s provision of
formal primary education; and (b) instituting (from fiscal year 2002/2003) a stipend program
targeted at the poorest 40 percent of enrolled primary school students, estimated at the time to
number over four million annually. Non-formal schools (“Learning Centers,” LCs) which
provided primary education lay outside the ambit of PEDPII.

4. Rationale for Bank involvement. IDA supported GOB’s aspiration to reduce poverty
substantially within a generation. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, 21326-DB dated
February 8, 2001) took a three-pronged approach to: (i) consolidate gains in human development
and support initiatives to address the next generation of development challenges in education,
health and nutrition; (ii) implement an integrated approach to rural development; and (iii)
accelerate and broaden private sector-led growth. Improving the quality of primary education and
expanding access for the disadvantaged were key areas of IDA’s support.

5. While IDA and eight other Development Partners (DPs) were supporting primary education
through the PEDPII (effective in May 2004), there was general recognition that, even if PEDPII
achieved its targets, this would still leave as many as 1.8 million children aged 6-10 out of school
by 2009. To complement PEDPII, which covered four categories of primary schools in the formal
sector, the GOB decided that it needed an alternative arrangement to address the challenge of out-


1
    Upazilas are sub-districts, and are the second lowest tier of regional administration in Bangladesh.




                                                              1
of-school children more fully. In 2004, Bangladesh became eligible for an IDA Grant which
presented an opportunity to utilize grant funds for marginalized children whom PEDPII could not
reach. ROSC was envisaged and designed as a pilot project to complement PEDPII to test
alternative mechanisms for quality education service delivery.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
6. The PDO stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was: to reduce the number of out-
of-school children through improved access, quality and efficiency in primary education,
especially for the disadvantaged children, in support of GOB’S national EFA goals. The PDO
statement in the Development Grant Agreement (DGA) was consistent with that in the PAD.

7. The PDO was to be measured by eight outcome indicators, also consistently stated in the PAD
and DGA as follows: (i) the number of out-of-school children reduced by about 0.5 million; (ii)
percentage of students reaching expected competency level based on teacher’s assessment in
Bangla and Mathematics not less than 65 percent; (iii) student grade completion rate not less than
80 percent; (iv) student transition rate to public and NGO schools to Grade 4 (from Grade 3) not
less than 80 percent, or to Grade 6 (from Grade 5) not less than 70 percent; (v) about 1.4 million
student years supported for beneficiary students; (vi) average annual student attendance rate not
less than 75 percent; (vii) average teacher attendance rate not less than 90 percent; and (viii)
students in each grade to have, on average, the same number of textbooks as those in
corresponding grades in the formal primary education system.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
8. The PDO was not revised. However, four of the PDO outcome indicators were adjusted in
2010 to reflect the broadened project scope under Additional Financing (AF). Targets for two
outcome indicators were increased: the number of out-of-school children to be reduced was
changed to 0.75 million (up from the original 0.5 million), and the number of student-years was
changed to 2.9 million (up from the original 1.4 million). Also, adjustments were made in two
additional outcome indicators to set more realistic targets on the basis of actual implementation
experience. The target for student grade completion rate was raised to not less than 85 percent
(originally 80 percent), and the target for student transition rate to public and NGO school to
Grade 6 (from Grade 5) was reduced to not less than 50 percent (originally 70 percent). (See the
ICR Datasheet).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
9. Direct beneficiaries were an originally estimated 500,000 children (increased to 750,000 with
the AF) to benefit from the expansion of LCs. The project prioritized access for the
“disadvantaged” and activated this by targeting “needy” Upazilas according to four indicators: (i)
NER lower than 85 percent, (ii) gender gap in enrollment greater than two percent, (iii) primary
cycle completion rate not more than 50 percent, and (iv) poverty rate above 30 percent.2 The
project would also benefit Shishu Kallyan Trust (SKT) schools under a program that MoPME
was already operating to provide education to disadvantaged working children in urban areas.




2
    The poverty headcount ratio at national poverty line was 40 percent in 2005.




                                                            2
10. Indirect beneficiaries included: parents/guardians/ward members of over 20,000 newly
created Center Management Committees (CMCs)3 who would be supported by training to build
up administrative and technical skills; and 24,000 teachers for ROSC-supported schools (labeled
“Learning Centers” (LCs)), 80 percent of whom female and newly selected from among local
communities, would receive training and salaries. The Ministry of Primary and Mass Education
(MoPME) and Directorate of Primary Education (DPE) would benefit from consolidating their
capacity to support the education system and from establishment of the project’s Management
Information System (MIS) for data collection and analysis to inform program and policy
decisions.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
11. The main thrust of the project, representing over ninety percent of the IDA financing, was to
increase access to quality primary education through direct support to communities to establish
LCs. The communities would be assisted by local level institutions – mostly non-governmental
organizations but also local education administrators. Originally, 60 Upazilas were selected, with
an understanding that the number of Upazilas could be increased over the project’s lifetime.
Project operations were organized into four main components and 12 sub-components,
summarized as follows:

Component 1: Improving Access to Quality Education for Out-of-School Children (Total
estimated US$53.4 million, of which IDA = $US47.0 million). The objective was to increase
access to, and facilitate completion of, primary schooling of disadvantaged children aged 6-14 by
testing two approaches: (i) in 60 percent of the [n.b. originally] selected Upazilas, both education
allowances for eligible students and grants to LCs would be provided; (ii) in the remaining
Upazilas, only grants would be provided to LCs. One sub-component “Education Allowances to
Out-of School Children” would disburse allowances twice a year to qualifying children through
bank accounts managed by their mothers or guardians (total annual allowances per student ranged
from BDT800 for class 1-3 students, to BDT970 for class 4-5 students). A second sub-component
“Grants to Learning Centers/Schools” would disburse twice a year through bank accounts
managed by the CMCs (grants per annum ranged from BDT25,000 for class 1-3 to about
BDT31,000 for class 4-5). Financing was linked to the number of children enrolled. A portion of
the grants was to be earmarked for quality enhancements and improving school management; the
remainder used at the discretion of the CMC for teachers’ salaries (within defined parameters). A
third sub-component “Shishu Kallyan Trust (SKT) Schools” financed grants to cover a part of
their program management expenditures and education allowances for disadvantaged working
children in urban areas who enrolled in SKT schools (SKT school grants ranged between
BDT25,000-30,000 per annum and educational allowances were BDT1400 per student per year;
the allowances aimed to meet direct and indirect costs of schooling).

Component 2: Communications and Social Awareness (Total estimated US$2.7 million, of
which IDA = $US2.0 million). The objective was to increase awareness about primary education
in general, and about the project in particular. A “Social Awareness” sub-component focused on
development and delivery of communications to stakeholders at family, community, Upazila, and
national levels; development and distribution of informational materials to potential Education
Service Providers (ESPs) and Education Resource Providers (ERPs); and logistical support for
communications between the LCs and Upazila Education Officers (UEOs) in the government


3
  The CMC would be composed of five parents/guardians, one female ward member, one Upazila Education Office
representative, and one Education Service Provider, with the teacher as the member secretary to the CMC.




                                                      3
administration. A “Community Mobilization” sub-component covered development of training
modules and related materials, activities at community level and preparation of Upazila
community mobilization reports.

Component 3: Project Management and Institutional Strengthening (Total estimated US$2.4
million, of which IDA = US$1.0 million). This component supported necessary activities for
sound project management, as well as logistical and technical support. A “Project Management”
sub-component provided for the operation of: (i) the ROSC Committee through which MoPME
was to carry out its oversight role, and (ii) the ROSC Unit (ROSCU), headed by a Project
Director, for day-to-day implementation. The “Institutional Capacity Building” sub-component
covered training in management, educational development and financial management to
strengthen central and Upazila administrations and local communities. The “Networking to
Improve Quality” sub-component supported the ROSCU to create a network of ERPs and other
experts for quality assurance and technical advice on education service provision.

Component 4: Monitoring, Evaluation and Research (Total estimated US$4.3 million, of which
IDA = US$1.0 million). The objective was to set up and maintain an effective system to: (i)
monitor the use of grants and education allowances, and (ii) evaluate effects of these types of
support through action research, thematic studies, and impact assessments. The majority of
evaluations were to be carried out by contracted, independent agencies. One of the four sub-
components, “Analytical Studies of Non-formal Education,” would support the GOB in
institutionalizing a national, non-formal education framework.

1.6 Revised Components
12. The original components were not revised. However, under the Additional Financing
approved in 2010, the scope of the project, particularly affecting Components 1 and 2, was
expanded (see below).

1.7 Other significant changes
13. The project was implemented largely as planned. The processing of the Additional Financing
(AF) was appropriate to help scale up a well performing project and enhance its impact.
Significant changes during the AF include: (i) introduction of performance incentives for students,
teachers, ESPs, ERPs, Upazila Education Officers (UEOs) and Assistant UEOs related to ROSC
students’ completion of Grade 5; (ii) placing a ceiling of 75 LCs per ESP and a two-year
maximum on the (previously unlimited) contract period between an ESP and a CMC; and (iii)
starting a practice for the best performing teachers (per students’ Grade 5 results) to open new
LCs for 2011 cohorts, obviating the need for ESPs in these cases. A single funding approach
(grant-plus-allowance) was adopted for the 30 Upazilas added under the AF. These changes were
made in efforts to refine implementation mechanisms and increase development impact. In terms
of project restructuring, the following four Level-2 restructurings were approved in 2010, 2011,
and 2013:

   Additional Financing (Financing Agreement IDA-47190, dated June 7, 2010). This did not
    add new policy initiatives, but it extended support to: (i) enable students in the original 60
    Upazilas to complete the primary cycle as there had been a delay in establishing LCs during
    early stages of the project, and (ii) scale up operations to an additional 30 Upazilas.
   Amendment of the DGA of the original IDA Grant H-1020-BD (Letter dated June 16, 2010)
    was approved to: (i) extend the Closing Date to June 30, 2013 to align with that of the AF,
    and (ii) include “costs of transportation and distribution of textbooks” under the disbursement




                                                4
    category “Operating Costs” to cover additional genuine, eligible expenditures supporting the
    Project Development Outcome and build flexibility into the definition of “Operating Costs.”
   Re-allocation of the proceeds, and increases in IDA financing percentages in selected
    categories of the original IDA Grant H-1020-BD (Restructuring Paper dated February 22,
    2011) were approved to: (i) meet disbursement needs which changed as a result of the AF
    scale-up and extension of the original Grant Closing Date; and (ii) cover the gap left by the
    closure of the co-financing Trust Fund (TF053577) on June 30, 2010 that was financed by the
    Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation (SDC). This restructuring also covered
    retroactive application of an increase in IDA financing percentages in disbursement
    categories (Grants, Education Allowances and Consulting Services) resulting from the
    decision against extending the SDC TF due to the change in SDC’s overall country strategy
    for Bangladesh, to focus on income generation.
   Amendment of proceeds of IDA Grant H-1020-BD (April 4, 2013) to reflect re-allocation of
    the amounts of the Grant to each category.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
14. The project was prepared in approximately six months (November 2003 to May 2004) which
was rapid in view of the novelty of its concept, diverse geographical scope, and large number of
potential stakeholders dispersed at local levels. The Bank team had a good skills mix, with
expertise in education, economics, and operations (project management, monitoring and
evaluation, communications and social awareness, financial management, procurement and
costing). The two co-task team leaders combined good understanding of the formal education
sector of Bangladesh. Both were involved in the PEDPII, which was an asset in analyzing
institutional strengths and weaknesses in the education sector relevant for ROSC, and evaluating
the costs-benefits of its approach.

15. The following factors in the preparation process affected the implementation and outcomes
of the project:

    Responsive PDO. This reflects an effective response to Bangladesh’s circumstances and
    priorities for EFA. Consultations with major NGOs 4 actively involved in non-formal
    education and with key bilateral and multi-lateral development partners (DPs)5 are evident in
    the Aides-memoire of the preparation missions and contributed to refinements of the project
    concept and operational design. However, evidence points to concerns stakeholders shared
    over ROSC being designed and beginning implementation at a time when PEDPII was just
    getting underway – and thus straining MoPME/DPE’s capacity to manage both programs. It
    would have been preferable for the Bank team to reach consensus among all development
    partners on the plan to launch ROSC as a parallel project to PEDPII that was just starting as
    the first Sector-wide Approach (SWAp) in primary education in Bangladesh.


4
  Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee (BRAC), Bangladesh Association for Community Education (BACE),
Campaign for Popular Education (CAMPE), Center for Rehabilitation Education Earning Development (CREED),
Dhaka Ahsania Mission (DAM), Friends in Village Development Program (FIVDP), Heed Bangladesh, Proshika, Save
the Children (SCF/USA), Kastbir Youth Action Group (KYAG), and Dirha Suchana Project (FIVDB and SCF project
funded by USAID).

5
 Education Local Consultative Group (ELCG), Asian Development Bank (ADB), Swiss Development Cooperation
(SDC), United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), United States Aid Agency (USAID),




                                                     5
    Straightforward and coherent project design. The clear rationale for the project to test the
    effectiveness of alternative approaches for expanding access to quality education for
    disadvantaged, out-of-school children is well reflected in the project design. It introduces an
    innovative, blended approach of demand and supply, 6 clearly stating that a number of
    initiatives were subject to testing and revision over the course of implementation.

    Benefits of key lessons incorporated in project design. ROSC could not build on specific
    strengths of other projects since the innovation to deploy grants through a direct partnership
    between GOB and local communities who would be responsible for contracting NGOs was
    the first of its kind in Bangladesh. A number of lessons from the NGO sector were
    nonetheless reflected in the project design, namely: (i) mechanisms for quality assurance (e.g.
    teacher training) in alternative approaches to primary education, and (ii) community
    involvement as critical to improve coverage and quality of services in remote areas. The
    project design was also guided by the effects of the GOB stipend program that was showing
    how monetary incentives were encouraging the poor, and especially girls, to enroll in school;
    and by research showing that when educational institutions were granted decision making
    autonomy, there were improvements in education quality. These lessons deepened
    understanding of operational technicalities, but in retrospect did not adequately prepare the
    project to meet substantial political economy challenges it encountered at community level.

    Generally appropriate risk assessment. The Project Appraisal considered whether risks had
    been appropriately assessed and addressed. The overall risk rating was judged as “moderate;”
    only one risk was rated “substantial,” i.e. that “there could be leakages in the disbursements
    of educational allowances and grants.” The ensuing implementation experience suggests that
    most risks were appropriately assessed, except for two: (i) the ability to “empower
    communities” within the political economy context, and (ii) the domineering behavior of
    local level NGOs vis-à-vis vulnerable populations. These two risks were rated “modest”
    during preparation but found to be substantial in the first few years of project implementation.
    Corrective measures to address these issues were taken at Mid-Term and at the AF
    implementation.

16. Quality at Entry. A total budget of US$295,000 was spent on project preparation. A Quality
Enhancement Review (QER) was held in March 2004, shortly before Appraisal. The main
recommendation was that, given the innovative nature of the project, its design should be flexible,
and a robust monitoring system needed to be in place. These recommendations were incorporated
into the project design. Likewise, recommendations from two workshops the Bank team
organized with national and international NGOs in non-formal education fed into the final
definition of criteria for selecting ROSC project areas, procedures to reach “untapped”
communities, safeguards for funds transfers to families and LCs, the outline for teacher training
and LC quality control, and tools for project monitoring.

17. The Government was proactive in obtaining all necessary approvals and developing a clear
Annual Operation Plan (AoP) and Operations Manual by project approval. Most of the readiness
steps were already completed by project negotiations and in addition to the AOP included: (i)
Project Concept Paper approved by the GOB Executive Committee for National Economic


6
 While demand was augmented through no-cost facilities and stipends for beneficiaries, supply was generated through
establishing LCs within easy reach of the families, and capacity building for CMCs, teachers, local level education
officials and NGOs.




                                                         6
Council (ECNEC); (ii) procurement plan for the first 18 months of project implementation and a
sample contract to be signed by CMCs and ESPs; (iii) terms of reference for a community
organization and management study to serve as the basis for preparing a standardized training and
dissemination package for building local level capacity; (iv) terms of reference for internal audit
and monitoring of the project; (v) draft of the participation agreement with Commercial Banks;
(vi) draft of the cooperation agreement between DPE and CMCs; (vii) draft of the Memorandum
of Understanding (MoU) between MoPME and the Local Government Engineering Department
(LGED) for its M&E services; (viii) list of qualifying Upazilas to be covered by the Project; and
(ix) job descriptions for key project positions.

2.2      Implementation
18. The disbursement rate is the broadest parameter characterizing implementation progress. For
the first three years, disbursement was low and did not surpass 20 percent (see DataSheet).
Disbursement increased significantly after the Mid-Term Review and from 2009 continued with
strong momentum – at approximately twice the rate of the first three years – until project closing.
Of the original Grant, nearly 90 percent was disbursed by October 2010. The project was never
rated at risk status.

19. Factors which favorably contributed to the project implementation:

    The Upazilas were selected by Appraisal and listed in the PAD and Development
    Project Proforma (DPP). As mentioned earlier, these were selected based on transparent
    and objective criteria. This helped offset risk of political disturbances to the continuity in
    (geographical) coverage needed to test effectiveness of the two approaches in Component 1.

    Dedicated institutional arrangements for ROSC were instrumental for steady attention to
    implementing the project’s new concept for GOB (MoPME/DPE) partnership with local
    communities delivering primary education in the non-formal sector. By project close, the
    ROSCU was successfully coordinating the set of systems and procedures which were tested
    and refined all during implementation. Decentralization mechanisms, including the use of
    commercial banks, were clearly articulated in partnership agreements and systematically
    monitored. The ROSC Committee was crucial for the high level political support that backed
    the Project Director (PD) in making the extraordinary progress after 2009.

    Robust, ground-breaking M&E. Out-sourcing M&E to agencies other than DPE was a first
    step in GOB’s openness to external third-party assessments and enhanced the project’s
    professional credibility in making claims about its results and development impact. The M&E
    reached the remotest LCs and delivered clear returns in signaling aspects which needed
    adjustment over the course of implementation.

    Flexibility within defined operational modalities and proactive use of action plans were
    among the major strengths of implementation and the ability to resolve issues as they arose.
    These features were particularly instrumental in amplifying attention to education quality
    which was considerably reinforced, progressively, over the duration of the project.

    Continuous support to capacity development was inherent to the project design. In
    addition, the Bank team provided ongoing mentoring in human resource development of
    education officials in regard to planning, budgeting, administration and monitoring (to
    capitalize on feedback from M&E functions) to strengthen quality assurance and outcomes.




                                                7
    Effective partnership with the Swiss Development Cooperation was manifest in US$6
    million co-financing and in the joint DP “forum” created for technical supervision and
    support along with the Bank.

20. Factors causing implementation difficulties were:

    Human resource constraints. ROSC was launched during the early stage of PEDPII and this
    had some impact on ROSC because the two operations competed for similar expertise (e.g.
    fiduciary) in a fairly limited domestic market. This was a factor in delays experienced
    recruiting ROSCU personnel, which in turn resulted in uneven attention to community
    mobilization and contributed to slow start-up of LCs. The slow start ultimately led to
    rescheduling the ROSC MTR from July 2007 to February 2008. Further, both PEDPII and
    ROSC had the same implementing agency (MoPME/DPE), and the authorities, especially at
    field level, were initially preoccupied with PEDPII and were less sure about their
    responsibilities for ROSC.

    Steep learning curve engaging communities. The very newness of the project’s concept
    was its greatest challenge as well as the reason for its ultimate acclaim. The original design
    relied on an untested package of financial incentives channeled directly to beneficiaries
    (including LC grants sent to CMC bank accounts), training to build up community members
    to take on powers vested in CMCs, and regular third party monitoring as a constant check on
    performance. Over time, implementation was adjusted to achieve a satisfactory balance
    between incentives and sanctions to overcome a greater than anticipated dominance of ESPs
    vis-à-vis CMCs (i.e. “elite capture”), and tendencies for some NGOs to seek the lucrative
    financing grants without providing adequate service.

    Changes in national government which occurred three times over the project lifetime
    slowed implementation in the field as a result of changes in community leaders, ESPs and
    local officials who had been closely aligned with the previous government(s). Significantly,
    the original concept of the project was not disturbed.

21. The greatest challenge at the start of implementation was to secure the people’s participation
in community-based clientele mapping, resource mobilization, program implementation and
monitoring. The arrangements (PAD, Operation Manual, templates for MoUs and contracts) were
methodically designed during project preparation, but they were untested. Creating CMCs in
remote, marginalized areas had never been done before. Nor had working with local NGOs by
putting the burden of their selection on the communities. The idea that LCs would operate with
oversight support from their CMCs, in which a sizable portion of the membership was illiterate,
was far more challenging than even the efforts of PEDPII that was breaking new ground trying to
launch a program of small grants for School Management Committees, transferred via Upazila
Education Offices (UEOs), for small-scale “school improvement plans” on the order of procuring
sports and recreational equipment. The ROSC was far more ambitious assigning CMCs the
responsibility of selecting teachers from among candidates in the local community and entering
into contracts with NGOs (ESPs and ERPs) for services to help manage LCs and train the
teachers. During ROSC preparations, it was not feasible to inventory all such NGOs’ capacities
nor assess their provisions for receiving funds (and accounting for how the money would be
spent) since the NGOs could not be identified in advance; indeed, many were created expressly
upon hearing that ROSC was launched. As for the DPE, its experience lay in managing schools in
the formal sector. For ROSC, DPE’s Upazila level administration was expected to provide
support for management and capacity building to LCs and visit them regularly, but these
functions were not traditionally in the UEO mandate (they are not otherwise involved in literacy


                                                8
programs managed through MoPME’s Bureau of Non-formal Education which uses a different
network of local literacy centers).

22. Ultimately, the ROSC took hold and entered a strongly productive phase especially in its last
three years. Evidence points to this achievement having resulted mostly from: (i) stronger
program coordination from a fully staffed ROSCU; (ii) more frequent communication initiated by
the Project Director vis-a-vis the ROSC Committee to ensure political backing for remedial
actions (e.g. initiatives from the then MoPME Secretary to fully engage local administration in
ROSC implementation, and the decision to restrict the duration of ESP services to LCs to a
maximum of two years); (iii) stepped-up publicity on the project, aided by the various evaluations
which were identifying ROSC results on the ground; and (iv) capitalizing on the opportunity to
use the Grade 5 exam (primary school leaving exam that MoPME introduced on a national level
in 2009) as a new yardstick for gauging LC students’ performance. Linking ROSC to the Grade 5
exam was a significant step in mainstreaming the project into the formal education system and
providing graduates clear avenues for moving into secondary education.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
23. Third-party monitoring and evaluation which ROSC brought directly into the GOB system
was novel and impressive because of its scale and development impact.

24. M&E Design. The PAD (Annex 3) defines a project “Results Framework and Monitoring”
comprising 8 PDO level indicators and 17 intermediate outcome indicators related to the four
components. The rationale for selecting the eight PDO indicators was clear: (i) they had
contribution linkages to EFA outcomes in terms of universalizing primary education; and (ii) they
were a sub-set with most need of improvement to address entrenched challenges of getting the
last 15 percent of primary school-aged children into school, while also paying attention to the
quality of education. Given that the intermediate outcome indicators enabled progress tracking in
various operational dimensions of project implementation, the preparation team’s choice of
indicators was justified. Most are quantifiable, in principle, facilitating data collection. Some
deficiencies worthy of notice include: (a) lack of precision about expected results for 5 out of 17
intermediate outcome indicators (e.g. “innovative” marketing strategies, “adequate” budget
statement); and (b) failure to disaggregate project performance by income and ethnic population
strata.

25. The project relied on two main data sources for tracking progress: (i) routine LC-reported
data synthesized by LGED (external agency), and (ii) special purpose studies and surveys (large
household-based baseline study, tracer study, ESP performance studies, Public Expenditures
Tracking Survey, etc.) contracted out for more rigorous analysis than the LGED could perform.
The MIS Cell that was created for the ROSC was the bedrock of collecting, hosting and
processing critical project data. In connection with the LC-reported data, the MIS Cell introduced
a sample-based monitoring mechanism in 2005/06 to validate information provided by LCs,
Master Trainers (MTs), and AUEOs. It was also intended that UEOs/AUEOs would perform
field-based monitoring and that their reports would be supervised by the ROSCU Assistant
Director Monitoring.

26. M&E Implementation. The self-reported data, collected twice a year, provided a steady
stream of information on LC operation, teachers, students, CMC activities and training which was
regularly summarized by the LGED ROSC MIS Cell in Semi-annual and Annual Statistical
Reports for each year of project operations. Throughout, the MIS Cell maintained a complete
Database Management system. Local LGED staff (in Upazilas) physically visited schools to
monitor 20 percent of the LCs in a year, using a monitoring checklist. This innovative mechanism


                                                9
that allowed third-party validation of the self-reported data was instrumental in reducing data
discrepancies over time. The routine functions of ROSCU internal monitoring, supervised by the
Assistant Director Monitoring, relied on consultants and were slow to start up, mainly due to
staffing deficiencies; consultants were appointed just before the MTR.7 The internal monitoring
took a stronger, positive trend in the latter years of project implementation. Upgrades were made,
including introduction of a format for ROSC officials’ field visits, and efforts were made to enter
and maintain data on a similar data platform as LGED to facilitate triangulation/comparison
across various streams of data.

27. Impact Evaluation: With technical assistance from the World Bank, a rigorous impact
evaluation (IE) – sub-component of M&E component – was carried out (Sarr et. al., 2010) to
assess the impact of the ROSC project. The IE design involved baseline (pre-project) and follow-
up (post-project) surveys of children, households and schools from treatment and non-treatment
areas, and allowed the evaluation to estimate the causal impact of ROSC intervention on
schooling outcomes. The ROSC LCs were found to increase enrolment probability between 9 and
18 percent and perform as well as non-ROSC schools in raising test scores. In particular, better
performing students attending grant-plus-allowance LCs improved their test scores by around 0.2-
0.4 standard deviations compared to other schools. These results pointed to the effectiveness of
the ROSC schooling model as a comprehensive “package” whose salient characteristics are
incentives to increase access, quality assurance (especially teacher training), and a spirit of
constant self-learning and self-improvement in managing the operations.

28. M&E Utilization. Good use was made of the M&E at three levels: in day-to-day project
operations, in cyclical programmatic assessments, and in the broader policy arena. In regard to
the first two levels, the well-established review system supported by regular monitoring reports
was the main basis for the ROSCU to decide on the number of annual student allowances (based
on enrolment reports from the LCs). Evidence from regular monitoring was also used in
management decisions on sanctions against improperly performing Upazilas, ESPs and LCs; and
decisions for improvements to the project operational design during the course of implementation.
Among these were actions which strengthened the M&E system itself. These included a full
validation scheme that was introduced to check whether all LCs were meeting the basic
educational compliance criteria to receive grants and student allowances, and the creation of
profiles for all LCs and enrolled students which allowed the monitors (including Master Trainers
from ERPs, DPE, ROSCU staff, consultants and IDA task team) easily to check on the status of
LCs and their students, especially as a precaution against misrepresentation of the actual number
of students enrolled. Together, these two improvements ultimately enabled 100 percent
compliance monitoring of LCs every year, compared to the 20 percent monitoring of the self-
reported data. For cyclical program assessments, results of the M&E were utilized for the
Implementation Supervision Reports (ISRs) to IDA management and the DPE Director General.

29. The in-depth studies and special purpose surveys also contributed strongly to programmatic
assessments. To illustrate, the evaluation of ESP performance over 2005-2007 (AcNielson, 2007)
joined by investigations at the project Mid-Term Review generated an empirical base on which
the GOB and Bank decided to take action against non-performing ESPs and further influenced the
decision at the time of Additional Financing to limit the range and duration of ESPs’ contracts
with CMCs. Feedback on teachers’ and students’ performance through various channels of field-



7
    Only 5 of the originally intended 14 formal Internal Monitoring Reports were available for review by the ICR team.




                                                           10
based monitoring yielded information that was steadily used by the GOB and Bank teams to
readjust and ramp up teacher training and development and initiate performance incentives to
improve quality. Findings of the impact evaluation informed decisions by the GOB and the Bank
to scale up the project at Additional Financing and to select the Grants-plus-Allowance approach
as the sole method for use in the additional 30 Upazilas. The M&E reports, impact evaluation and
Public Expenditures Tracking Survey contributed to the ROSCU’s ability to publicize the
project’s success with credibility. The consequence at a broader policy level was government’s
decision to extend use of the ROSC model for second chance education through ROSC-II, and
even more extensively in forthcoming operations to cover rural areas across the entire country.

30. There were some weaknesses in the M&E system. These included considerable delay in
procuring the firms for two key studies as well as limitations of the MIS Cell in being able to
analyze the vast quantity of descriptive data collected. Regarding the former, the baseline study
was delayed nearly two years, which complicated the impact evaluation because the baseline field
surveys were carried out after the project had already started implementation. This study still has
value, owing to its rigorous performance assessment of the project at a relatively early stage of
implementation. In contrast, the analytical study on Non-Formal Education (NFE) which was also
delayed (not carried out until 2010 because of a protracted lack of clarity over its objectives
followed by delays in contracting the consultants) could have helped bring NFE much earlier into
an overall programmatic framework for primary education if this work had been done on time.
With regard to the MIS Cell, the ICR team noted that, by nature of its contract, the LGED could –
and did – regularly recommend to ROSCU on actions to take based on assessment of field data.
There was occasional tension vis-à-vis the ROSCU when LGED felt its recommendations were
not adequately considered. As the M&E system keeps improving its capability for the data
collection to capture ground realities (e.g. strengthening school visits and monitoring) under
ROSC-II, so, too, management of the chain of various procedures for data interpretation,
arbitration (if discrepancies arise across different data streams), assessment of appropriate follow-
up, and ROSCU/DPE decision making on recommended actions needs to bring all these parts
more effectively together. This is essential to cross-check feedback from multiple sources, avoid
inadvertently overlooking important evidence from the field, and generally to draw the best
collective use out of these positive features of the M&E program.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard Compliance
31. The project was Environmental Category “B” and triggered two safeguard policies:
environmental assessment and Indigenous Peoples. The project preparation used the
environmental guidelines just developed and disclosed for the PEDPII; these were based on a
detailed Social and Environmental Assessment. The Borrower expanded the PEDPII guidelines
for ROSC after carrying out a rapid assessment on non-formal education institutions. The ROSC-
specific guidelines were disclosed publicly.

32. The LCs and SKT schools were located in existing premises so the project did not involve
construction. The main concern was to ensure that communities provided safe drinking water and
appropriate sanitation facilities for the Learning Centers. These aspects were clearly included on
the monitoring checklists used systematically throughout project implementation and reported
mainly through the Semi-annual and Annual Reports issued by LGED (ROSC MIS Cell). The
ICR team found the MIS Cell database contained a record of compliance, including evidence of
steps taken to improve facilities for safe drinking water and toilets in cases where they had
initially been observed as inadequate. For these reasons, the ICR team rates compliance on
environmental assessment “Satisfactory,” which is consistent with the ratings in the ISRs.


                                                 11
33. For the safeguard on Indigenous Peoples (IP), the project was to implement the Tribal Action
Plan of PEDPII which covered all tribal areas of Bangladesh and was disclosed publically. The
ROSC Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS) approved at Appraisal noted that the tribal
population comprised approximately one percent of the country’s total population but gave no
indication of specific actions the project would take and report on during implementation. The
ICR team found implementation support mission Aides-memoire occasionally referred to due
consideration given to the potential enrollment of ethnic minorities. While project files document
numerous LCs were implemented by tribal communities (for example, 23 LCs in Sylhet managed
by the Monipuri community), the ROSC MIS Cell database has no record of ROSC students by
ethnic background or explicit mention of follow-up on the IP safeguard. Nor is this specifically
referred to in missions’ Aides-memoire. For these reasons, and considering the PDO focus on
“disadvantaged” children, the ICR team rates compliance on IP “Moderately Unsatisfactory.”

Financial Management
34. The overall performance of financial management (FM) is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

35. The project was implemented in a country fiduciary environment of high risk which did not
improve over the project lifetime. To mitigate risk to the project, a number of initiatives were
taken: (i) dedicated FM staff at the ROSCU (supplementing DPE’s Finance Unit); (ii) FM
responsibilities articulated for central, intermediate, and the most local levels of project activity
and systematically refined on the basis of implementation experience; (iii) contractual agreements
between the nationalized commercial bank (Sonali Bank) and CMCs, and grant and education
allowance criteria specifying eligibility and forming the basis for accounting; (iv) annually
renewable Cooperation Agreements to be signed by DPE with each CMC indicating fiduciary and
statutory obligations of both parties (as a legal covenant of the DGA); (v) IDA review of project
quarterly Financial Management Reports (FMRs) and periodic desk review and field visits to
monitor Statement of Expenditure (SOE) submission by LCs; (vi) annual auditing of project
financial statements by the Comptroller and Auditor General of Bangladesh; and (vii)
independent audits of educational allowances and grants on an annual basis.

36. The main challenges which became evident during implementation were: (i) vacancies in the
core financial management and procurement positions of the ROSCU up until the MTR; (ii)
CMCs’ weak financial management (FM) capacity (notably, in book-keeping); (iii) low quality
financial management reports (FMRs) in early years of the project, displaying inconsistencies
with financial statements from the LCs and Sonali Bank; (iv) Sonali Bank’s lapses in production
of fund utilization reports and reconciliation statements of actual amounts disbursed to students
and LCs; (v) over-stating of financial statements and in some cases payment for services which
were not rendered; and (vi) delays in settling audit observations.

37. The impact of these issues was successfully mitigated through active follow-up by joint
Bank-GOB reviews and implementation of remedial action plans. The MTR recommended
preparation and implementation of an “accountability plan FM section” for the ROSC Committee,
MoPME, DPE, ROSCU, UEO, partners, ERPs, ESPs, CMCs, teachers and parents to: (i) ensure
the veracity of project expenditures at all levels by strengthening accountability and adherence to
agreed procedures; (ii) promote transparency through public disclosure of LC activities (through
social audits involving Parents’ Assemblies on utilization of grants and education allowances,
display of funds receipts and expenditures in each LC, and use of checkbooks for LC
transactions); and (iii) embed a fully functional funds reconciliation system in the regular
monitoring system. The MTR further recommended a Public Expenditures Tracking Study



                                                 12
(PETS) to be carried out on a sample basis, and recruitment of a full-time FM consultant to
support the ROSCU.

38. Evidence of success in building up a satisfactory level of financial management in the post-
MTR period is chiefly the following: (i) FM positions at the ROSCU fully staffed; (ii) substantial
improvements in on-time disbursement of education allowances; (iii) improvements (after 2010)
in Sonali Bank fund utilization reports and reconciliation statements; (iv) results of the PETS
which showed service delivery was effective in that over 95 percent of intended student
beneficiaries reported to have received educational allowances, and close to 95 percent of them
received both installments; and (v) reviews showing LCs maintained reasonable fund
documentation. Additional measures adopted were random performance audits by the ROSCU as
well as its examination of the respective separate reports of ESPs, UEOs, and Sonali Bank in
parallel to reconcile LC/SKT financial transactions. Independent audits were also conducted on a
contract basis to review overall LC/SKT performance.

39. Counterpart funding. There were no major issues with the Government’s project financing
(US$ 6.8 million, including AF) which was nearly eight percent of the total and mainly covered
salaries of the project staff and consultants as well as administrative costs and logistics. Total
counterpart funds were over 85 percent disbursed.8

40. SDC co-financing grant of US$6 million. As agreed by the GOB, SDC and the Bank, the
Swiss co-financing was deployed to co-finance all four components in the IDA DGA (Grant No.
H-1020-BD). The Bank managed the Swiss grant through the Cofinancing Technical Assistance
and Consultant Trust Fund Framework Agreement between The Government of the Swiss
Confederation, IBRD and IDA. An initial amount of US$ 1.48 million was provided to the Trust
Fund (TF053577) for a first phase of 18 months ending February 28, 2006. Following a
satisfactory performance review (which included an external performance Audit of the initial 18
months of the project), the Administration and Management Agreement for the Trust Fund was
amended to provide US$4.52 million for a second phase, effective July 1, 2006 until June 30,
2010. Beyond this date, there was no additional financing due to a shift in SDC’s strategy, to
focus on income generation activities.

Disbursements
41. Disbursement estimates were formally revised on August 16, 2010 because of the project
restructuring (Additional Financing and extension of the closing date). Of the original Grant of
SDR 35.2 million (equivalent to US$ 51 million), the undisbursed balance after the final
disbursement on October 31, 2013 was SDR 0.12 million (equivalent to US$ 0.18 million). Of the
Additional Financing Credit of SDR 23.1 million (equivalent to US$ 35 million), the undisbursed
balance after the final disbursement on October 31, 2013 was SDR 7.05 million (equivalent to
US$ 10.79 million). The total undisbursed amount in the ROSC project was SDR 7.17 million
(equivalent to US$ 10.97 million). The project was 88 percent disbursed.

42. At the time of writing the ICR, the undisbursed amounts include balances in the Designated
Accounts for the Original Grant (approximately SDR 0.118 million) and the Additional Financing
Credit (SDR 4.6 million) which are in process of being refunded to IDA. Since IDA balances are
in BDT, they are converted to SDR and US$ amounts based on current exchange rates. The main


8
  In order to deal with a small discrepancy in the amounts between the approved Development Project Proforma (DPP)
and the DGA, revisions to the DPP were made in January 2006.




                                                       13
reason for the less than full disbursement (12 percent undisbursed) in ROSC-1 is due to the fact
that ROSC-II and ROSC-I overlapped for six months. Because of the GOB guidelines on funds
release on projects with the same names (ROSC-I and ROSC-II), the project chose to use ROSC-
II funds because the latter were made effective six months before ROSC-I was closed.

Procurement
43. The overall procurement performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

44. Under the initial IDA grant (H102-BD) and TF053577, there was no procurement subject to
international competitive bidding. The major portion (91 percent) of Grant proceeds comprised
allowances for out-of-school children and grants transferred to CMCs, who had the primary
responsibility for procuring materials and hiring teachers. Remaining procurement consisted of
small value goods and services. This was managed by the ROSCU. There was no additional
procurement planned under the Additional Financing as the procurement plan under the original
project was adequately updated to meet the needs during the period of the AF and financed fully
from the original project funds.

45. The project design and readiness steps sought to ensure adequate procurement capability by
effectiveness. During implementation, procurement moved slowly up to the time of the MTR, and
the quality was variable. This stemmed mostly from capacity constraints at the ROSCU; in
particular, protracted vacancies in the procurement function. Deficiencies were partly
compensated by the proactive recruitment of procurement consultants, but the joint reviews noted
that capacity often diminished following a consultant’s departure. Several large services packages
(including for Communication and Social Awareness, Network Coordinating Body for ERPs to
assist LC teacher training, and Analytical work on Non-formal Education) were delayed
inordinately. Up to Mid-Term, procurement post-reviews revealed some inconsistencies in the
procurement process (including repackaging goods without IDA no-objection, deficient bidding
practices, and limited screening of quotations). However, misprocurement was declared only
once (on November 8, 2008). This was relatively minor, involving five packages amounting to
US$4,662; the amount was canceled from the IDA Grant.

46. Procurement capacity picked up significantly over the second half of implementation, with
weaknesses actively addressed through stabilizing staffing at the ROSCU and intensifying
training (especially related to the new public procurement regulations), performance monitoring,
and procurement auditing. Post reviews of FY10 and FY11 indicated satisfactory procurement
compliance.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
47. The follow-on Reaching Out of School Children Project II (ROSC-II), which was approved
by the Board in October 2012, was designed to improve equitable access, retention and
completion for out-of-school children in Bangladesh. It built upon lessons derived from the
implementation of ROSC-I. The ROSC-II is a US$ 130 million investment credit, and the design
aims to reach a larger target group than ROSC-I (including – for the first time – urban slum areas)
as well as incorporate design refinements into the program; in particular, a significantly enhanced
emphasis on education quality with interventions focused on improving teacher effectiveness at
the level of the classroom, streamlined provisioning of grants and allowances, an elaborate
system of monitoring, and a more defined and time-bound role for supporting NGOs. Over time,
the mechanism is expected to be streamlined into the overall Primary Education Development
Program of the Government.




                                                14
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
48. The overall relevance is Substantial.

49. Alignment with development strategy, objectives and design (Rating: Satisfactory). The
objectives and design of ROSC were and are still fully relevant to the country strategy. The core
features of ROSC to achieve its objectives were to expand second chance access to primary
education through testing an innovative community-led approach for the most disadvantaged
segment of the society, improve the quality of teaching and learning, and strengthen the
institutional foundation of the delivery system for formal primary education for the children left
out of the system. These actions directly supported GOB’s efforts toward EFA goals as outlined
in the Interim Poverty Reduction Support Program (I-PRSP, 2003) and the National Plan for
Education for All (EFA, 2003) which stated that access to education for the poor needed to be
increased to ensure an efficient and sustainable approach to equitable, quality education. The
project was also consistent with the Bank’s CAS dated February 2001, one of whose pillars was
consolidating gains in human development, and remains consistent with the current CAS (2010)
focus on more effective service delivery at the local level to enhance access to the marginalized,
and better education quality and learning outcomes. Moreover, ROSC objectives are in line with
the Third Primary Education Development Program (PEDP3, 2011-2016) whose key policy
directions and expected results emphasize enhanced access and quality education for all. Building
on core actions and capabilities of ROSC-I is an ongoing agenda in ROSC-II, with further
expansion in terms of geographic coverage. In a recent policy decision, the Government indicates
it will take this even further, to use the ROSC model (in rural areas) to provide second chance
education to the disadvantaged children in the entire country.

50. Implementation (Rating: Satisfactory). While the project took some time to gain momentum,
ROSC clearly performed well expanding access and made significant advances on education
quality and developing appropriate institutions. The innovative approach of community-led
learning centers, no-cost schooling incentives for the poor and former drop-outs; and incentives
for performance of teachers, LCs, and ESPs worked effectively. Quality of education is a generic
concern in Bangladesh. ROSC students, who were mostly from the most disadvantaged segments
of society, performed reasonably well in the nationally administered Grade 5 (primary
completion) examinations. ROSC arranged formal trainings for teachers, teachers’ group
meetings for sharing experiences and innovative ideas, refresher trainings for quality
enhancement of teaching and learning. Finally, ROSC built up a credible system of M&E and
third party verification which is now being used across the sector. Contributing to project success
was the proactivity shown in adapting design to accumulated experience, in line with the overall
aim to test accountable, transparent, alternative procedures for delivering education services to
the poorest and most disadvantaged children.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
51. Based on the achievement of all core PDO indicators and significant surpassing of targets on
five of them, the project fully achieved its development objectives. There has been a significant
increase in access to primary education for disadvantaged children and in the quality of education
in non-formal learning centers, both of which are advances toward the country’s EFA goals.
These are satisfactory results. Detailed justification for this rating is given below.

52. The PDO formulation in the PAD consists of six elements, for which the first four have
corresponding KPIs. The ICR team assessed achievements against all six of these elements by
bringing in intermediate outcome indicators (PAD, Annex 3) and specific outputs from the


                                                15
components (Annex 2). The ICR team’s assessment is based on project reported data and external
sources. Results are summarized below, grouped into six parts corresponding to the respective
PDO elements. Each part – “PDO1,” “PDO2,” PDO3,” PDO4,” PDO 5, and “PDO6” – is rated.

53. PDO 1: Reduce the number of out-of-school children. Achievement is assessed in the
areas of:

i)  Total number of out-of-school children enrolled in ROSC. The 0.84 million children the
    project reports to have reached surpassed the (AF) EOP target of 0.75 million. The number of
    children who benefited from ROSC roughly corresponds to 40 percent of the 2.2 million
    decrease (from 7.7 million to about 5.5 million) in number of out-of-school 6-14 year olds
    reported by other sources for the 2001-2010 period (Education Sector Review 2013). Even
    though the reduction in number of out-of-school children prior to 2004 cannot be attributed
    solely to ROSC, this comparison helps put the magnitude of ROSC’s contribution in context.
ii) Evidence of grants and grants-plus-allowances on increasing access. Independent in-depth
    studies carried out under ROSC show the incentive of grant-plus-allowance was particularly
    successful attracting children to LCs: the prevalence of primary school age out-of-school
    children was found to be considerably lower in grant-plus-allowance areas compared with the
    grant and control (non-ROSC Upazilas) areas, especially among the poorest segments of the
    population (Uniconsult, 2011). A study carried out in 2007 shows a statistically significant
    average net increase in primary school enrollment of 9 percentage points for children aged 6-
    14 in grant-plus-allowance areas. This is an important indication of the reduction in number
    of never-enrolled. However, there was some qualitative evidence based on informant
    interviews that suggested some of the students had left other schools to join the LCs. While
    the empirical evidence on this issue was limited, it is possible that this would have
    compromised the project’s achievement of reducing the number of children who had never
    previously attended school. A rigorous impact evaluation carried out in 2010 (using data from
    2006 baseline and 2009 follow-up surveys) shows that: (i) ROSC intervention is associated
    with as high as 20 percentage points increase in enrolment of primary-aged children, (ii)
    ROSC is reaching the poorest segment of the communities, and benefit incidence would be
    even more pro-poor if the program were to be scaled up; and iii) these results are notable
    given much lower per student unit cost in ROSC schools relative to formal primary schools.

54. Table 1 provides a summary of PDO 1. The overall rating is Satisfactory.

Table 1: Ratings for PDO 1
                           PDO Indicators                            Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactory
1.Number of out-of-school children enrolled in ROSC                          X
2. Evidence of grants/ grants-plus-allowances on increasing access                              X
Total/average                                                                   X


55. PDO 2: Improved access in primary education. Achievement is assessed in the areas of:

i)   Innovative grassroots marketing strategies and community outreach efforts. “Innovative” was
     not defined in the project Results Framework, making it difficult to assess outcomes against
     that part of the objective. However, in terms of numbers reached, it is clear that efforts were
     initially focused at Division level and only shifted to community level from 2009 (see Annex
     2, Table 4). The intermediate outcome indicator for community outreach efforts originally
     specified a minimum of two workshops, two dissemination campaigns and two stakeholder
     training sessions annually. Data available to the ICR team confirms that the number of “social
     awareness” workshops over the 2004-2006 period exceeded these targets (see Annex 2, Table


                                                         16
       1). The total number of participants in basic and refresher training (nearly 390,000) also
       indicates these targets were reached (see Annex 2, Table 5). A noteworthy “innovation” in
       the community outreach efforts was the production of videos prepared for courtyard training
       to assist government officials and community members on the ground, as they were not able
       to carry through the communications activities of a previously contracted firm (BCCP) at the
       same level of professionalism.
ii)    Number of LCs. The total number of new LCs and SKT schools (23,768) created over the
       project lifetime is shown in Table 2 of Annex 2. To illustrate the exemplary magnitude of this
       effort, these numbers can be compared with the numbers of Government Primary Schools
       (GPS) and Registered non-government primary schools (RNGPS) in Bangladesh which are
       37,672 and 20,061, respectively (BANBEIS 2011).
iii)   Student enrollment in LCs and number of student years supported for new students. The total
       0.84 million students who attended the LCs and SKT schools (778,147 students, if replaced
       students are not included) is reported in PDO1, above. The number of student years the
       project had supported by December 2012 is 2.94 million (Annex 2, Table 3), which met the
       (AF) EOP target of 2.9 million.
iv)    Student average annual attendance rate exceeded the EOP targets. Early on, the Baseline
       Survey (2006) found remarkably high attendance rates (85-91 percent) overall, and that rates
       in grant-plus-allowance LCs were higher (91 percent) than for students in other non-ROSC
       Upazilas (86 percent). Attendance rates remained high during implementation and were close
       to 90 percent by project closing, exceeding the EOP target of not less than 75 percent. This
       may have been due to the demand-side incentives which encouraged children to go to school,
       close monitoring and supervision by communities, as well as an improving quality.
v)     Bi-annual disbursement of allowances and grants. In the first two years, there were significant
       delays in disbursing funds which may have weakened incentives (allowances) for children to
       go to LCs. The slow disbursement of grants to LCs was a factor in their slow start-up and
       contributed to the decision to reschedule the MTR. As late as 2008, the record of planned vs.
       actual date of disbursement by Upazila by semester was not maintained, so it is not possible
       to assess the full extent of the delay. However, in the last few years of implementation,
       disbursement proceeded regularly and the effects of the allowances and grants appear to have
       been instrumental for access and quality outcomes, as shown by independent evaluations.

56. Table 2 provides a summary of PDO 2. The overall rating is Satisfactory.

Table 2: Ratings for PDO 2
                                                                        Highly                      Moderately
                          PDO Indicators                              Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Satisfactory
1.Innovative grassroots marketing strategies and community outreach                                      X
2. Number of LCs                                                                          X
3. Student enrollment in LCs and number student years supported            X
4. Student average annual attendance rate                                  X
5. Bi-annual disbursement of allowances and grants                                                       X
Total/average                                                                                 X


57. PDO 3: Improved quality in primary education. Achievement is assessed in the areas of:

i)     Percentage of students reaching expected competency level based on teachers’ assessment in
       Bangla and Mathematics. This is reported as 80 percent, exceeding the EOP target of not less
       than 65 percent (see DataSheet). The LGED database shows the percentage of students with




                                                        17
       qualifying marks was well above 90 percent in most cases (Annex 2, Table 7).9 In 2008, the
       LC self-reported data started to be supplemented with that from LGED field monitoring. The
       ICR team’s review of the data revealed largely consistent results from these two sources, with
       the exception of 2009 when the field monitoring recorded considerably lower competencies,
       due to a higher competency threshold used by the monitors for the first time. In subsequent
       years, the same threshold was used in both the self-reported data and field monitoring data,
       and data between the two sources showed similar competencies.
ii)    Student academic achievement assessed by independent evaluations and performance on
       primary school completion (Grade 5) exam. When MoPME introduced the Grade 5 terminal
       exam at national level in 2009, the project made a concerted effort for ROSC students to sit
       for it. Their pass rates in 2009 and 2010 were 43 percent and 49 percent, respectively. By
       2011, the pass rate was a remarkable 73 percent. While these rates are still lower than the
       national average and the government schools (which have been around 85-90 percent), it
       should be noted that ROSC students are first generation learners in their households, come
       from the most marginalized communities, and attend shorter LC class times as they are
       designed flexibly to suit for working children. Since the project introduced bonuses for
       teachers based on student performance as early as 2007, it is highly likely the strong
       improvement in Grade 5 pass rates by 2011 reflects the additional measures the project took
       to improve the quality of teaching and learning, e.g., scaled up teacher training (see vii,
       below), additional classes for Grade 5 students, and preparatory exams before the terminal
       exams. It is also noteworthy that findings from the independent impact evaluation (Sarr et.
       Al., 2010) suggest that performance of ROSC students in terms of gains in test scores
       between the two rounds of the evaluation’s surveys are similar to non-ROSC students, after
       controlling for socio-economic characteristics, and impacts on learning levels are stronger for
       girls in ROSC intervention areas.
iii)   Average teacher attendance rate. At 90 percent, this met the EOP target (see DataSheet), and
       it is high compared with average attendance rates in the formal primary sector (around 80
       percent). Significantly, independent evaluation dating back to 2008 (follow-up to the Baseline
       Study) found that among teachers present in school during the survey visits, over 80 percent
       were actually teaching.
iv)    Number of textbooks ROSC students have in each grade compared with corresponding
       grades in the formal primary education system. The project reports that students in each grade
       had on average the same number of textbooks as those in corresponding grades of the formal
       primary education system, thus meeting the EOP target (see DataSheet).
v)     Basic facilities for conducive learning environment. The Results Framework (PAD Annex 3)
       did not itemize the specific facilities expected, but the detailed project description (PAD
       Annex 4) identified “books with supplementary materials.” These items were subsequently
       incorporated into the Monitoring Checklist and systematically tracked. The basic facilities
       markedly improved over the project lifetime. By 2010, across all LCs in the project, almost
       all were observed to have received textbooks on time, 76 percent had supplementary reading
       materials, and over 95 percent had blackboards and chalk. In 2009, the seating arrangement
       was mats on floor in only 4 percent of schools; by 2012 this was 96 percent.



9
  The qualifying threshold was defined as the minimum level of marks for slow learners and this, along with the
average attendance (minimum 75 percent) of all learners in general, was the yardstick for “re-qualification” namely for
continuing students to receive education allowances in the next academic year. The threshold evolved in the project’s
lifetime: It was “above 40 marks” for 2005-2006 and 2010 and “50% and above marks” for 2008-2009. From 2011 this
became more complex, as follows: at least 33 percent marks for promotion to the next grade, and a more stringent
threshold for “requalifying” marks that increases by 10 percent for each year with the age of the respective cohort.




                                                         18
vi) Student-teacher ratio. The intermediate outcome indicator specified a student-teacher ratio of
     25-35:1 which is consistent with the criteria for creating LCs and continuing to receive grants
     in the subsequent year (PAD, Annex 4). Third party evaluations reported the average to be 27.
vii) Number of teachers trained in instructional methods and classroom management. Statistics
     LGED provided on the project’s overall achievement in training show these efforts
     progressively became more robust over the project lifetime (Annex 2, Table 6). One of the
     indicators of success is seen in LGED reports documenting an increase in the percentage of
     teachers observed to have teaching plans: 76 percent in 2012 compared to 58 percent in 2009.
viii)     Teacher-based assessments available monthly. During implementation, the teachers’
     assessments were provided to the LGED regularly on a semi-annual basis and are
     documented in the LGED Semi-annual and Annual Monitoring Reports. While provided with
     regularity, it is not clear whether these assessments were available monthly.

58. Table 3 provides a summary of PDO 3. The overall rating is Satisfactory.

Table 3: Ratings for PDO 3
                                                                                       Highly
                                    PDO Indicators                                   Satisfactory   Satisfactory
1.Percentage of students reaching expected competency level (teachers’ assessment)        X
2. Student academic achievement assessed by Grade 5 exam performance                                     X
3. Average teacher attendance rate                                                                       X
4. Number of textbooks for students in each grade                                                        X
5. Basic facilities for conducive learning environment                                                   X
6. Student-teacher ratio                                                                                 X
7. Number of teachers received training in instructional methods, classroom mgmt.                        X
8. Teacher-based assessments of student achievement available monthly                                    X
Total/average                                                                                                X


59. PDO 4: Improved efficiency in primary education. This section focuses on the internal
efficiency of the ROSC and comparable indicators for formal primary education; the project’s
technical efficiency (keeping the cost per unit of the outcome as low as possible), and the
allocative efficiency (spending on the “right things” most likely to achieve the desired outcomes)
particularly in regard to student learning achievement. Efficiency is further addressed in Section
3.3 (Economic Analysis) of the ICR.

60. PDO4 assesses ROSC achievements in the following areas:

i) Student grade completion and transition rates. The project reported a 90 percent student grade
    completion rate, surpassing the (AF) EOP target of 85 percent (see DataSheet). Based on
    project data, the ICR team calculated the mean survival rate to Grade 5 was 70 percent for the
    initial four cohorts (2005-2008), with somewhat lower rates (60-65 percent) for the latter two
    ROSC cohorts as a result of more stringent re-qualifying criteria as mentioned above. By
    EOP, 70 percent of ROSC students were also making the transition from Grade 5 to Grade 6
    (see DataSheet).
ii) Benefit incidence analysis of ROSC relative to government schools reveals that ROSC spent
    less per child across all income groups (Education Sector Review 2013) compared with
    government spending per child, by income group, in formal primary education. Moreover, in
    government spending on formal primary education, the share of the non-poor is higher and
    that of the poor is lower than the corresponding spending in ROSC. For spending on children




                                                        19
     from the poorest households, ROSC spends less than half the amount spent in government
     schools: in 2005, the government spent about BDT 2,991 annually for each enrolled child
     from the poorest households; for the same income group, ROSC spent BDT 1,307.10
iii) Level of transparency and accountability in service delivery through ROSC. The project’s
     success in progressively strengthening internal control systems is highly commendable and
     has potential for broader use within government systems. As late as for the AY2006 cohort,
     the Award Confirmation Form (ACF) for student allowances still had no signature column to
     confirm receipt of funds, so there was no actual proof of disbursement. As noted elsewhere in
     the ICR, the MTR recommended the development and implementation of an “accountability
     plan for financial management.” Among other actions, this recommended that the grants be
     posted on the wall of each LC to show an exact breakdown of the grant and how it was used.
     These measures were joined by additional safeguards including the introduction of a new
     “student unique ID,” creation of a new ESP supervisor position (in place for the Additional
     Financing), and improvements in Sonali Bank fund utilization reports and reconciliation
     statements. The Public Expenditures Tracking Survey captured some of the early benefits of
     these enhanced internal controls, as reported earlier in the ICR
iv) Role of accountability in education outcomes. Independent analysis (Education Sector
     Review 2013) finds accountability in reducing inefficiency strongly correlated with
     generating a quality education (measured in student scores on the National Student
     Assessment 2011). Results also suggest that displaying information at LCs on the grants they
     received was strongly associated with improved (technical) efficiency, and schools in which
     students’ guardians elected the CMC chairperson tended to be more efficient than schools in
     which the local elite initiated the CMC’s formation. These findings similarly appear in a
     third-party review conducted under ROSC (Uniconsult 2011) as well as performance surveys
     carried out by SDC. The latter noted students’ learning outcomes were best where the CMC
     was strong. The strong accountability measures implemented, especially in the latter half of
     the project and the improving learning outcomes over time (Grade 5 examination results)
     suggest that improved accountability positively contributed to better learning outcomes.

61. Table 4 provides a summary of PDO 4. The overall rating is Satisfactory.

Table 4: Ratings for PDO 4
                                                                    Highly                               Moderately
                       PDO Indicators                             Satisfactory        Satisfactory       Satisfactory
1.Student grade completion and transition rate to Grade 6                                  X
2. Benefit incidence of ROSC relative to government schools                                X
3. Transparency/accountability in ROSC service delivery                                                        X
4. Role of accountability in education outcomes                                            X
Total/average                                                                                  X


62. PDO 5: Especially [benefit] the disadvantaged children. Achievement is assessed in the
areas of:

i)   The ROSC objective to target the poor was met consistently, as shown by external
     evaluations. Early on, among the LC graduates surveyed in the Tracer Study (2007), all came
     from hardcore poverty (defined as below subsistence level). A more recent study based on


10
   This is due in part to the amount of the ROSC allowance being less than the stipend for the qualifying students
enrolled in government schools.




                                                          20
    panel data similarly found that over 90 percent of ROSC students were from families of
    “extreme poor” (Dang et. al., 2011). Furthermore, among all education incentive programs in
    rural Bangladesh, the ROSC school allowances appeared to reach the poorest most effectively
    (Uniconsult 2011). Marginal benefit analysis using data from the impact evaluation surveys
    (2006, 2009) indicates that ROSC project scale-up would disproportionally benefit the poor
    (58 percent of the increased program benefits would go to the poorest quintile).
ii) Percentage of ethnic and other disadvantaged children enrolled in LCs. While ROSC had an
    explicit priority to reach the poorest segments of the out-of-school population, the PAD
    rounded out the definition of “disadvantaged” to consider gender aspects as well as
    disadvantages associated with socially stigmatized groups, children living in backward or
    inaccessible areas (with no mainstream school within two kilometers), children from
    households living on floating/khas land, and working children. ROSC MIS data show that at
    least half of the student beneficiaries in ROSC were girls, and education allowances were
    provided to students including those children from tribal populations who happen to live in
    the area of the LC location. However, within a community, there was no explicit targeting of
    these groups since any eligible child in the community would have access to ROSC
    intervention. In the case of SKT schools, ROSC benefits were extended to eligible students
    who also worked part-time to provide for themselves or families.

63. Table 5 provides a summary of PDO 5. The overall rating is Satisfactory.

Table 5: Ratings for PDO 5
                                                                          Highly                        Moderately
                           PDO Indicators                               Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Satisfactory
1. Percentage of extreme poor enrolled in LCs                                X
2. Percentage of ethnic, other disadvantaged children enrolled in LCs                                        X
Total/average                                                                                    X


64. PDO 6: Support of GOB’s national EFA goals. The overall PDO has an implied causal
chain leading from the first four PDO elements to imputed progress on the national EFA goals.
What specifically has ROSC achieved in meeting the program related challenges which are
outlined in the National EFA Plan (2003) for 2003-2015? This is assessed in terms of:

i)   Closing the gap on universalizing primary education (UPE). ROSC on the ground embodies
     the EFA principle of ensuring close cooperation between GOB, NGOs, and broader civil
     society to share responsibility for program development and management particularly to
     serve segments of the population which are not served by formal primary schools, and to give
     high priority to the constraints of the poor in terms of enrollment, attendance, retention,
     completion, and quality achievement. ROSC achieved both increased access and increasingly
     effective measures to tackle quality, which the project defined more broadly than simply
     mastery of the curriculum. 11 The increasing success in infusing the ROSC “package” of
     quality interventions with mainstream features of formal primary education (using the GOB
     textbooks, actively involving UEOs) and focusing a PDO level KPI on the goal of primary
     school completion (as well as lateral transfers of LC students to secondary schools) means
     that ROSC took concrete steps toward closing the gap on UPE. ROSC-II is adding to this.


11
   For example, the role and performance of teachers, conducive learning environment, and capitalizing on the new
Grade 5 exam to ensure basic levels of competencies for children graduating and entering secondary school also
figured prominently in an inter-related “package” of project interventions to improve and maintain quality.




                                                          21
    The uniquely significant achievement of ROSC-I is in the headway it made facing its greatest
    challenge: getting the people’s participation in community-based clientele mapping, resource
    mobilization, program implementation and monitoring.
ii) Contribution to national framework policy on non-formal education. The analytical work on
    non-formal education was completed (in 2010) and additionally, the project files and other
    third party evaluations contain reflections on the role of ROSC within the national context of
    non-formal education. However, it is unclear how the project may have had a proactive role
    in helping develop an explicit national framework policy on NFE.

65. Table 6 provides a summary of PDO 6. The overall rating is Moderately Satisfactory.

Table 6: Ratings for PDO 6
                                                                       Moderately      Moderately
                       PDO Indicator                    Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory
1.Closing gap universalizing primary education               X
2. Contribution to national framework policy NFE                                            X
Total/average                                                                  X


3.3 Efficiency (Economic Analysis)
66. The ICR economic analysis (Annex 3) presents an assessment of benefits and costs
associated with the project over eight years (2005-2012). Compared to the economic analysis
from project appraisal, the ICR economic analysis (EA) shows IRR and NPV. Retrospective data
on cost and benefit stream used for the ICR EA are now different than the assumptions and
projections made at appraisal because: (i) project cost increased due to additional financing, and
(ii) the number of students reaching Grade 5 increased due to project expansion (across more
areas) and extension (more years). The increase in the cost stream has been more than offset by a
larger increase in benefit stream measured in terms of both internal efficiency under PDO4 above
and external efficiency in terms of life-time earnings. Finally, the ICR analysis uses better quality
data on both physical (enrollment and completion rates) and financial aspects (actual data on
costs, wage premiums, etc.) of the completed ROSC project. The estimated internal rate of return
is 27 percent and the net present value of economic benefits is US$ 328 million.

67. In sum: Benefits and costs (Rating: Satisfactory). Internal Efficiency (Rating:
Satisfactory).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
68. Table 7 provides a summary of scores of different aspects of project outcomes, using a six-
point scale and weights assigned to reflect the relative importance of different factors. The end
result is an Outcome rating of Satisfactory. The weight given to “implementation” in the
“Relevance” category reflects, in addition to implementation progress in a technical sense, the
success in changing attitudes in favor of the new concept for a direct partnership between the
GOB and communities to achieve more effective delivery of non-formal primary education at the
local level, as well as the ROSC achievement implementing a previously untested package of
financial incentives channeled directly to beneficiaries to extend primary education access to the
most marginalized. The “Efficacy” of the project is well founded in the responsiveness of the
project development objective to the GOB’s priorities for education under the Education for All
(EFA) action plan to make education accessible and all-inclusive. All PDO level indicator targets
have been achieved or surpassed, including those revised at the time of Additional Financing
when the project scope was expanded. Since the targets were achieved, there was no impact of the
undisbursed balance on achieving the PDO (a credit amount of approximately SDR 7.2 million
was unused at the end of the project). In the “Efficacy” category of Table 7, PDO 6 is weighted


                                                   22
slightly less than the other PDOs to avoid over-weighting the EFA objectives, since these are also
assessed in the “Relevance” category. PDO4 is added to the category on “Efficiency” in view of
its responsiveness to the CAS higher level objective to ensure transparency and accountability in
service delivery.

69. It should be noted that if one were to use the metric on project rating envisaged at Appraisal,
ROSC-1 can be rated as “Highly Satisfactory,” since it has achieved the core KPIs (1-5) and the
remaining ones as well.

Table 7: Project outcome evaluation scores
                                                                           Weight          Score     Weighted score
Relevance                                                                   0.33
 Alignment with development strategy/ objectives/ design                    0.15             5               0.75
 Implementation                                                             0.18             5               0.90

Efficacy                                                                     0.34
 PDO 1: Reduce number of out-of-school children                              0.06            6               0.36
 PDO 2: Improve access                                                       0.06            5               0.30
 PDO 3: Improve quality                                                      0.06            5               0.30
 PDO 4: Improved efficiency                                                  0.06            5               0.30
 PDO 5: Benefit to disadvantaged                                             0.06            5               0.30
 PDO 6: Support EFA goals                                                    0.04            4               0.16
Efficiency                                                                   0.33
 PDO4: Technical/allocative efficiency                                       0.17            5               0.85
 Benefits to costs (Economic Analysis)                                       0.08            5               0.40
 Internal efficiency (Economic Analysis)                                     0.08            5               0.40
Total                                                                        1.00                            5.02
1 = Highly Unsatisfactory, 2 = Unsatisfactory, 3 = Moderately Unsatisfactory, 4 = Moderately Satisfactory,
5 = Satisfactory, 6 = Highly Satisfactory

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

70. Poverty impacts are discussed in PDO 5, above.

71. Gender aspects. Female empowerment is one of the most marked achievements of ROSC. In
addition to the equity achieved in female and male participation rates in the LCs – and greater
proportion of females than males enrolled in SKTs – over 80 percent of the LC teachers recruited
were female. Many among the latter went on to establish new LCs, without requiring assistance
from ESPs. Close to 90 percent of all CMC heads were female, together representing significant
female empowerment at the local level. Consequently, through the CMC, they had decision-
making power and bore major responsibilities in managing funds, employing teachers,
monitoring school attendance, arranging training of teachers, and other logistics, all of which was
highly unusual practice for these women in the context of their social status. ROSC contributed
to the creation of new job opportunities for women in rural areas; this happened directly, through
employing teachers for LCs, and in the longer term, by affording females the possibility to
complete their primary education, go on to secondary school and then to remunerative
employment.

72. Social Development. The multiplier effects of educating poor children and especially poor
girls, leading to a positive impact on their career opportunities could have a far-reaching impact
on Bangladesh’s economic and social development, especially in terms of poverty reduction. The
novel idea of rural communities contracting NGOs to provide them with educational services
attempted to recast the NGO-community relationship, which for a long time has been viewed as a


                                                         23
patron-client relationship. ROSC attempted to take community empowerment to a new level. In
the given political environment where many of the local NGOs are inextricably linked to the
political power bases, this was a daunting task, more so for a small-scale education project. Still,
within the lifetime of the project, symptoms were visible that these relationships were being
redefined in favor of the rural communities.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
73. Implementing the project via government systems, in particular through DPE which has
overall responsibility for formal primary education, had significant influence on key government
functions by bringing them directly into supporting non-formal alternatives to complement formal
primary schools. The effects are expected to be sustained in future education sector-wide
planning. The institutional strengthening under ROSC also has implications beyond the education
sector. Mainly by the capacity development of local communities, NGOs, and financial
institutions (Sonali Bank), the project has helped realize sets of accountability measures to
reinforce governance for service delivery through decentralized channels of the public sector and
through community participation. Besides, ROSC was instrumental in bringing a synergy
between the government and NGOs as partners in provision of education, making use of a blend
between formal education and a much acclaimed non-formal mode of delivery for which
Bangladeshi NGOs are known worldwide. The now-launched third-party monitoring within the
education sector of the government has considerably strengthened monitoring and reporting
systems.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
74. Interviews with key stakeholders pointed to the positive, catalytic effect of the GOB
introduction of the Grade 5 exam in 2009 on ROSC to orient the assessment of student learning
achievement around a nationally recognized benchmark, thereby advancing a mainstreaming of
ROSC within the overall primary education system overseen by DPE.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not Applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
75. The development outcomes of ROSC-I are being maintained in the GOB commitment to
implement ROSC-II through 2017. A further indicator of sustainability of the benefits of ROSC-I
is the fundamentally important policy decision by GOB to adopt the ROSC model as the national
platform for reaching at-risk children in rural areas. The proposed implementation plan is being
discussed within the context of the PEDP3, the ongoing successor SWAp to PEDPII. For these
reasons, the Risk to Development Outcome at the time of ICR evaluation is assessed as
“Negligible to Low.”

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (Rating: Moderately Satisfactory)
76. The fast-tracked preparation period of six months may have left too little time for more
development partners to explore co-financing of ROSC (so soon after PEDPII), but the schedule
was partly dictated by the need to meet the deadline for the IDA Grant funding. Despite the short
planning period, preparation of the basic building blocks for the implementation arrangements
was thorough. They were technically sound and, together with the successful testing of
comparative advantages of a grant-only vs. grant-plus-allowance approach, proved a solid base
for extending the project’s development impact through Additional Financing for ROSC-I and
next in ROSC-II.


                                                24
77. Quality at entry could have been strengthened in three respects. First, despite the ground-
level mapping of remote areas and precautions taken at Appraisal to avoid political interference in
the selection of beneficiaries, project preparation could have benefited from a more
comprehensive analysis of risks inherent in implementing an ambitious new concept that
expected vulnerable population communities to lead in collaboration with NGOs. The Bank team
sought advice on this at the QER; in retrospect, the guidance received, that “CMC membership
should be limited to community members to empower them fully,” may have been most salient.
A different tack was taken during implementation, i.e. the CMC membership included ESPs
(NGOs), and this increased their leverage to dominate over local populations. Furthermore, the
Bank team had studied the BRAC NFE program but could have gone farther distilling lessons
from that experience, which clearly showed how direct links between BRAC regional
administration and the villages/LCs were critical to “protect” beneficiaries from local elite
capture. A second factor that affected project quality at entry was the timing of the baseline study.
In an apparent trade-off for fast-tracking the preparation period, the project design called for the
study to be conducted in the first six months of implementation. The baseline study was delayed
considerably beyond this period due to difficulties procuring the firm and lost the opportunity to
reinforce quality at entry since the project had already started up in the majority of Upazilas.
Third, the interpretation of the safeguard policy related to Indigenous Peoples as requiring a
Tribal Action Plan seemed more designed to satisfy the letter of the law than to tackle the many
complex cultural and linguistic issues which would have been needed for LCs to expand
enrollments of tribal children.

(b) Quality of Supervision (Rating: Satisfactory)

78. The Bank team focused on the project outcomes and their impacts on the PDO during
implementation. This required intensive supervision given the extensive geographic scope, range
of activities, and multiple stakeholders. Supervision was made more challenging with the changes
in national government and their repercussions at decentralized levels, as explained earlier in this
ICR. The Aides-memoire and ISRs produced over the project’s lifetime reflect attention to detail
with precise recommendations and follow-up actions for all aspects of the program, combined
with strategic reminders of the overall development goal. Interviews conducted for the ICR
pointed to the catalytic value of the Bank’s site visits for identifying problems as they occurred
and using the flexibility of the project’s pilot nature to make changes which improved
implementation. Team members notably helped in the early years to delve into the ground
realities of ESPs who were not meeting the criteria for service delivery and to suggest solutions.
Studies embedded in the project design to obtain data and analytical perspectives from credible
third party experts produced reliable information and led to improvements in implementation.

79. Overall, the ICR team received positive feedback from government counterparts and the SDC
concerning the Bank’s responsiveness to emerging situations. Some examples where the Bank
team together with the Borrower’s project team showed proactivity include the following:
successful transition from the two ROSC interventions (Grants-and-Allowances, and Grants-
Only) towards a single scheme of Grants-plus-Allowances; introduction of a validation
mechanism as a compliance confirmation tool to process and disburse grants and allowances;
introduction of cluster-based master trainers to enhance quality of teaching/learning; limiting the
duration of ESP services to foster community empowerment and sustainability; AF processing to
address the funding gap and to provide existing ROSC students with an opportunity to complete
Grade 5; project restructuring/Financing Agreement amendment(s) to address changing
disbursement needs; strengthening the ROSC MIS Cell at LGED continually improving on the
relevance of M&E; and capacity building of key stakeholders, including the local education
offices, to enhance ownership of implementation on the Borrower’s side. The task leadership on


                                                 25
the Bank side changed six times. This did not negatively impact the team’s ability to ensure
diligent implementation support as each incoming TTL had an overlap with the previous one
through prior direct involvement in the project team, thereby making hand-over arrangements
smooth and successful. Through close monitoring of the project progress, the Bank and GOB
anticipated the need of Additional Financing and prepared this well in advance. There was no
impact of the undisbursed balance on ROSC-I results, since the targets were achieved, and even
surpassed in several areas. As part of the project transition arrangement, the ROSC-I findings
were fed into the design of ROSC-II which the Bank team processed in a timely manner. The
Bank team also notified the GOB on time and persisted with several reminders that the balance of
funds from ROSC-I must be refunded; the GOB was processing this at the time of the ICR.

80. Three shortcomings were noted: (i) the project was slow to gain momentum due mainly to
human resource constraints in the implementing agency, which resulted in slow disbursements
the first three years and delayed the Mid-Term Review where crucial adjustments were made to
project design and implementation arrangements; earlier start-up of Bank implementation support
missions could have helped offset weaknesses in initial implementation (the first such mission
occurred ten months after effectiveness); (ii) ISR ratings were too positive in certain aspects of
the project performance (supervision of effects in terms of the participation of indigenous peoples
did not receive the attention required, so the ratings for safeguard compliance do not reflect the
limited progress made); and (iii) FM and safeguards experts familiar with field realities were not
always accessible on a full-time basis in Dhaka.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance (Rating: Satisfactory)

81. With the rating of Moderately Satisfactory for preparation and Satisfactory for supervision,
overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance (Rating: Satisfactory)

82. An important gauge of GOB commitment lies in how the ROSC PDO remained unchanged
despite multiple changes of government. From the outset, GOB counterparts emphasized the
strong potential of the proposed project and underpinned this commitment by vesting project
implementation with DPE, the government body that has overall responsibility for primary
education in Bangladesh. Detailed operational arrangements were clearly agreed by Appraisal:
the MoPME technical team worked alongside the Bank at every step. These precautions were
challenged in the initial years of implementation by chronic delays in recruiting qualified
personnel for the ROSCU. At different points in time, there were also divergences among Project
Directors (PDs) in their views about program implementation and what they would support.
However, given that two markedly effective PDs (the project had a total of five in its lifetime)
were in place for a combined total of six years, this balanced out the differences. The relative
continuity in ROSCU leadership stands in contrast to most other projects in Bangladesh.
Particularly from 2009, the GOB exercised its leadership through the ROSC Committee and this
was joined by active liaison with the parliamentary standing committee on education, which
helped ensure broad-based support and ownership to the project at all levels within the country.
The government’s openness to third party M&E was also a key action, as was the regular annual
auditing of project accounts by the Comptroller and Auditor General of Bangladesh. Both were
fundamental for drawing credible lessons from ROSC-I.




                                                26
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance (Rating: Satisfactory)

83. Continued improvement in human resources at the ROSCU significantly supported the
project implementation. The human resource deficiencies at ROSCU negatively affected initial
performance of the project; this is reflected in the disbursements which fell off schedule in the
first year and lagged until midterm. The situation improved as the project moved forward,
particularly profiting from the vigorous PD management from 2007/2008. The ROSC was fully
staffed with qualified personnel over its last few years, and even with expansion of the project
scope through the Additional Financing, the Implementing Agency was able to complete the
project, meeting or exceeding most targets, and played a key role in the seamless preparation and
approval of ROSC-II. A high level of engagement from DPE’s Director General (DG), who made
it a priority to participate in all implementation support missions, delivered strong benefits
especially through the progressively successful mobilization of ROSCU and field level staff
(UEOs, AUEOs) to maintain active field presence in support of LC service delivery.

84. Program decisions made good use of the M&E data produced under the project. The
ROSC was able to collect data even from the remotest LCs and regularly issued Semi-annual and
Annual Reports. The LGED, contracted for the ROSC MIS Cell, was a consistently strong
performer and took many initiatives to hone the reliability of data collection techniques (for
example, through use of mobile phone technology). In the project’s later years, beneficiaries were
consulted in increasingly meaningful ways on various aspects of the project (the Upazila level LC
teacher conferences for 2008, 2010 and 2011 cohorts is one example) to identify, build on, and
broadly publicize what was working well.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance (Rating: Satisfactory)

85. With the rating of Satisfactory for preparation and supervision, overall Borrower
performance is rated Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

86. Key lessons are:

   Ambitions and expectations for innovation need to be realistic. Changing approaches to
    service delivery, putting communities which have long remained disempowered at the center
    of the whole intervention, is difficult to implement in any country setting, and especially so in
    the context of Bangladesh. Analysis of the political economy of vulnerable populations would
    help to mitigate risks of such a proposed innovation agenda.

   The model of government and community partnership can work. Lessons from ROSC are:
    (i) community awareness is crucial, as is the assimilation of roles intended for the respective
    stakeholders; both require vigorous and sustained communication efforts; (ii) if selected
    properly, local NGOs play a constructive role supporting the first year of LC operations; the
    dividend of using NGOs beyond the first year is marginal; (iii) clear performance criteria
    with initial and ongoing evaluations and action to terminate poor performers or to help them
    improve can ensure strong performance; and (iv) active engagement of UEOs with back-up
    from their central administration (MoPME/DPE/ROSCU) is decisive for vigilance of LC
    issues. Leaving these activities only to local NGOs (who are sometimes politically
    influential) without adequate government oversight was not effective.




                                                27
   Systematic strengthening of governance arrangements has potential for broader impact.
    This ICR discusses numerous governance issues in the context of public-private sector
    partnerships and how they were built up. Among them is the strengthening of financial
    management capacity, transparently publishing financial information, and third party
    monitoring, which improved accountability.

   Combining educational allowances with higher level grants – the level received by LC
    schools in Grant-only areas – is likely the most effective way to reach the dual goal of
    attracting out-of-school children to school and improving their learning.

   From the very outset, quality must be targeted simultaneously with access issues. Teachers
    are a key determinant of LC quality. Lessons learned from the changes made successively
    over the project lifetime are that more successful strategies: (i) actively manage the teacher
    selection process (recruit LC teachers from a pre-enlisted pool with appropriate
    qualifications); (ii) contract out teacher development (training and on-site support) to
    professional agencies with track records in areas LC teachers find most challenging (e.g.
    multi-grade teaching); and (iii) use incentives to attract and retain teachers and reward for
    performance.

   A robust M&E program needs multiple systems of checks and balances. Monitoring all
    activities taking place simultaneously at ground level is impossible; even more so when such
    activities take place in the remotest and the most disadvantaged areas of the country. The
    monitoring framework needs to involve various stakeholders for monitoring at the local level
    and procedures for cross-checking feedback from multiple sources and resolution of data
    discrepancies. To offset risk of inflating student numbers, it is indispensable to have a
    mechanism that uniquely identifies each student in the project and is coupled with the MIS.
    Mainstreaming select survey instruments into the overall monitoring arrangements and
    obtaining necessary information of other cross-sectoral household surveys is necessary to
    ensure informed decision making.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
87. Comments from the Ministry of Primary and Mass Education on the Bank Implementation
and Completion Results Report (ICCR) and the Government’s own completion report on the
project are attached at Annex 5. The Bank ICR team agrees with the assessment of achievements
and strengths of ROSC-I highlighted in Annex 5, as well as the challenges to be addressed in the
programs directly following on ROSC-I. The ICR team endorses the importance of building on
the ROSC-I achievements in “mainstreaming” its approach as a second chance alternative in the
primary education sector. In contrast to many other non-formal education programs, the ROSC
has equivalencies with formal primary education because ROSC students use the same textbooks
(prepared by the National Curriculum and Textbook Board) as the formal system and participate
in the same Grade 5 terminal exams after completion of a five-year primary cycle; the ROSC
design also involves the regular DPE administration at central and decentralized levels. Under the
present (ROSC-I) design, students can complete the primary education cycle in five years and
enter the mainstream for secondary education.

(b) Co-financiers
88. The Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) provided comments in an
interview with the Bank ICR team. The Bank concurs with the SDC’s synopsis of the longer term
development impact of ROSC which was described as follows: “The ROSC design – NFE



                                               28
channeled through the government system (i.e. DPE) – was its most compelling feature, and it
was important to support this so as not to miss a generation of children.” The SDC highlighted the
main success of ROSC as the combination of: (i) its social change process, (ii) reaching the
under-served; (iii) establishing the LGED monitoring system; and (iv) achieving commendable
learning outcomes especially under conditions of a strong CMC and good collaboration between
parents and LC management.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
89. No comments were received from other stakeholders.




                                               29
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


      (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal            Appraisal
                                         Appraisal          Estimates for       Estimates for
                                                                                                       Actual/Latest        Percentage of
                                       Estimates for         Additional       both Original and
Components                                                                                               Estimate               Both
                                      Original Project       Financing           Additional
                                                                                                      (USD millions)         Appraisals
                                      (USD millions)            (USD              financing
                                                              millions)        (USD millions)
Improving Access to Quality
Education for Out-of-School                  53.5                 35                 88.5                   79.3                90%
Children

Communications and Social
                                             2.3                                      2.3                   1.2                 52%
Awareness
Project Management and
                                             2.1                    1                 3.1                   5.2                 168%
Institutional Strengthening
Monitoring, Evaluation and
                                             3.5                                      3.5                   2.6                 74%
Research


           Total Baseline Cost               61.4                 36                 97.4                   88.3                91%
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies                          1.4
            Total Project Costs              62.8                 36                 98.8                   88.3                89%
Front-end fee PPF
Front-end fee IBRD
    Total Financing Required



           (b) Financing
                                                        Appraisal Add. Fin. Actual/Latest
                                              Type of   Estimate              Estimate    Percentage of
         Source of Funds
                                            Cofinancing  (USD                  (USD        Appraisal
                                                        millions)             millions)
 Borrower                                                  5.8       1           4.5          66%
 International Development
                                                                                    35                25                 71%
Association (IDA)
 IDA GRANT FOR POOREST
                                                                        51                           53.9               106%
COUNTRY
 SWITZERLAND: Swiss Agency
                                                                        6                             4.9                82%
for Dev. & Coop. (SDC)
 Note: The main reason for less than full disbursement of the Additional Financing is due to the fact that ROSC-II and ROSC I
 overlapped 6 months. Because of Government of Bangladesh guidelines on funds release to projects with the same names (ROSC I
 and ROSC II) the ROSC I chose to use ROSC-II funds since the latter were made effective 6 months before ROSC I closed.




                                                               30
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The ROSC completed most planned activities, and exceeded targets for many. The matrix in
Table 1 below summarizes the outputs delivered within the project period (including additional
financing), by component. Tables 2-7 provide additional detail on selected outputs:

Table 1: ROSC Main Outputs by Component
                                Component wise outputs
1     Component 1: Improving Access to Quality Education for Out-of-School Children

      DO1 Objective 1: Education allowances for eligible students
      DO1 Objective 2: Grants to LCs where the students enroll

1.1   Sub-component 1.1: Education allowances to Out-of-School Children
      Total initial enrollees over AY2005-2012: 778,147 students (replaced students not included)
      By gender: 382,830 females; 395,317 males
      Contracting system established with Nationalized Commercial Bank (Sonali Bank) for disbursing
      grants
      Total amount education allowances disbursed to students (ROSC LC + SKT students): US$ 26.21
      million

1.2   Sub-component 1.2: Grants to Learning Centers/schools
          - Total new LCs established: 23,695 LCs over AY2005-2012
          -  Total operating LCs AY2005-2012: 177,576 LCs

      (Note: Most schools = 1 teacher, 1 class cohort type enrolling all students in Grade 1 and moving
      them through to higher grades.)
      Total number LC teachers AY2005-2012: 90,861 teachers

1.3   Sub-component 1.3: Shishu Kallyan Trust (SKT) Schools)
      Total initial enrollees over AY2005-2012: 23,456 students (replaced students not included)
      By gender: 12,473 females; 10,983 males
      Total number SKT institutions supported AY2005-2008: 73

      (Note: Grant support to schools was based on School Improvement Plans submitted.)
      Construction: 1 Technical School (Fatullah) built with ROSC support

      See also in this Annex:
      Table 2: Number of Learning Centers and SKT schools supported by ROSC, AY2005-2012
      Table 3: Number of student years supported by ROSC, AY2005-2012

2     Component 2:Communications and Social Awareness

      DO2 Objective 1: Raise awareness about primary education in general and the Project in particular
      DO2 Objective 2: Mobilize stakeholders to open new LCs or expand existing ones
      DO2 Objective 3: Disseminate information on qualification criteria, resource support & other operational
                       guidelines to stakeholders
      DO2 Objective 4:Assess the effectiveness and “reach” of the communications and social awareness
                      activities

2.1   Sub-component 2.1: Social Awareness
      Social Awareness Workshops:
          - 60 Upazila workshops, 34 District workshops in 2004-2005 to disseminate information on
              ROSC
          - 40 workshops in 2005-2006


                                                     31
          -    See also in this Annex: Table 4 Participants in Community Mobilizations & Social
               Awareness, AY2005-2012

      Posters etc.: 11 posters printed by ROSCU (some on contract to BITOPI, BCCP)
      Television & radio spots

2.2   Sub-component 2.2: Community Mobilization
      Total ESPs recruited: 1726 NGOs

      (Note: The longer CMCs were in operation, the more ESPs could be phased out. 28 ESPs remained
      in 2012.)

      Information/Training for frontline workers:
          - Pictorial CMC Manuals distributed to 60 Upazilas for new LCs
          - Videos:
              * ROSC goals, processes & achievements; video screened 5280 times in 59 Upazilas
          - * Video for “courtyard meetings” for use by Government & community members on the
                 ground to inform CMCs, to supplement other awareness/mobilization outreach efforts
          - Circulars:
              * Roles, responsibilities of ERPs in cluster-based teacher support program
              * Roles, responsibilities of field level partners & CMC financial management aspects in
                context of larger responsibilities entrusted to UEOs, and the need to empower local
                communities
              * Operational mechanisms of Ananda schools (LCs)
          - See also in this Annex: Table 5Participants in CMC and ESP training, AY2005-2012

3     Component 3:Project Management and Institutional Development

      DO3 Objective 1: Establish a sound structure for managing and implementing the Project
      DO3 Objective 2: Develop and strengthen the capacity to deliver quality primary education to out-of-
                       school children

3.1   Sub-component 3.1: Project Management
      ROSC Committee established within GOB
      ROSC Unit established within DPE
      Operations Manual (& English translation of shorter version) produced and updated progressively

3.2   Sub-component 3.2: Institutional Capacity Building
      Training established for CMCs, ESPS across participating Upazilas (Table 5, this Annex)
      Established system of teacher education/training (initial, refresher, continuous training, content &
      pedagogical knowledge).
           - Basic instructional package of teaching-learning materials produced and disseminated to
                LCs (Teacher Support Manual, teachers’ guides)
           - Sequenced lesson plans developed for Master Trainers (MTs)
           - Established system of supervisory support (involves evaluation forms used by supervisors
                for observations of Master Trainers training LC teachers and observation of LC teachers in
                classrooms)
           - See also in this Annex: Table 6 Participants in Teacher training, AY2005-2012
      Staff training:
           - In-country training (management, educational development, financial management): 80 staff
           - Overseas training: 60 staff (i.e. training at National Institute of Education, Singapore;
                International Institute of Educational Planning, UNESCO Paris)
3.3   Sub-component 3.3: Networking to Improve Quality
      Established ERP Networking Group: technical advisory services to ERPs




                                                      32
      (Note: This network also strengthened the professional partnership between MoPME/DPE and
      NGOs specialized in education, i.e. ERPs.)

4     Component 4: Monitoring, Evaluation and Research

      DO4 Objective 1:Monitor the use of grants support
      DO4 Objective 2:Monitor the use of education allowances
      DO4 Objective 3: Evaluate the two approaches (grants, grants-plus-allowances) through action research,
                      thematic studies, and impact assessments
4.1   Sub-component 4.1: Monitoring the use of Grant Support by LCs
      ROSC reporting system established linking DPE with Upazilas (includes use of standardized
      monitoring templates, checklists)
      MIS Cell established (by contract to LGED, independent agency): tracking/verifying LC & SKT
      student enrollments. MIS Cell has facilities for school mapping/ monitoring /educational data
      collection & processing
      Enhanced surveillance system established: monitoring in 20 percent of LCs in a year; conducted
      monitoring in 21,609 LCs out of 23,695
      MIS Cell publications: 24 evidence based reports providing better data and analysis for decision
      making on program implementation and quality assurance; includes 8 Annual Reports
      Computerized database & financial management system set up for monitoring student enrollments
      and grants across Upazilas
      Comprehensive database set up on MTs, UEOs, teachers, ERPs etc.; introduced mobile phone
      technology for data collection/monitoring Comprehensive database set up on MTs, UEOs, teachers,
      ERPs etc.; introduced mobile phone technology for data collection/monitoring

4.2   Sub-component 4.2: Monitoring and Assessing the use of Education Allowances
      As above for 4.1

4.3   Sub-component 4.3: Evaluating the Impact of Grants and Education Allowances (and additional
      studies/surveys for making program decisions)
      - Developed numerous thematic monographs and publications on program activities and innovations,
         including LGED’s 8 Annual Statistical Reports, financial and performance audit reports, ROSC
         Mid-term Review evaluation
      - Produced 7 third party evaluations (see also Annex 6 List of Supporting Documents):
        * Baseline Study (2006)
        * Evaluation of ESP Performance 2005-2007 (2007)
        * Evaluation of SKT Schools (20__)
        * Tracer Study (2008)
        * Qualitative study on performance of ROSC implementing agents (2010)
        * Quantitative Study evaluating ROSC students learning achievement & transition (2010)
        * Public Expenditures Tracking Survey (2010)


4.4   Sub-component 4.4: analytical Studies of Non-formal Education
      Non-formal education sector analysis (2010)




                                                     33
Table 2: Number of Learning Centers and SKT schools supported by ROSC, AY2005-2012
Category       Detail       AY            AY                AY            AY            AY             AY         AY            AY              AY
                           2005          2006              2007          2008          2009           2010       2011          2012            2005-
                                                                                                                                               2012
No. of         LC            727             7,184         3,027          4,066               -        4,700      3,991               -        23,695
institutions   SKT            44               19              8             2                -                                       -           73
(initial
year)          Total         771             7,203         3,035          4,068               -        4,700      3,991               -        23,768
Total No.   1st           -    7,910                   10,907            14,936        14,816         13,455     13,269        11,422          86,715
operating   Sem.
LCs         2nd        727     7,893                   10,884            14,867        14,685         17,097     13,795        10,913          90,861
            Sem.
Source: LGED ROSC MIS Database


Table 3: Number of student years supported by ROSC, AY2005-2012
              AY      AY         AY                          AY              AY              AY                AY           AY                Total
             2005    2006       2007                        2008            2009            2010              2011         2012
LC + SKT    30,145 254,054     357,153                     495,063         480,427         533,615           428,985      355,744         2,935,186
SKT only      6,766   9,581     12,272                      14,441          15,207          11,173             7,081                         76,521
Source: LGED ROSC MIS Database


Table 4: Participants in Community Mobilizations and Social Awareness, AY2005-2012
                                   AY            AY            AY            AY           AY             AY         AY           AY             AY
                                  2005          2006          2007          2008         2009           2010       2011         2012           2005-
                                                                                                                                               2012
Community       Division                        8,552         1,002                                                                             9,554
mobilization    Advocacy
& social        Upazila                  -             -             -             -          711         980              -              -     1,691
awareness:      Advocacy
number of       Union                    -             -             -             -              -     3,536              -              -     3,536
participants    advocacy
             Community         -                       -             -             -     41,365        33,557     10,780                  -    85,702
             level
Source: LGED ROSC MIS Database

Observations on Table 4: The late start-up of social awareness campaigns targeted at
community level coincides with the period of a particularly large number of cases of local NGO
dominance reported by other sources, including the Aides-memoires of the Bank’s
implementation support missions.

Table 5: Participants in CMC and ESP training, AY2005-2012
                              AY               AY            AY             AY            AY            AY         AY           AY              AY
                             2005             2006          2007           2008          2009          2010       2011         2012            2005-
                                                                                                                                               2012
CMC       Basic         5,805                 54,456        23,888        28,105             -          4,400     8,013               -       122,667
training Refresher          -                      -             -        50,426       216,642               -         -              -       267,068
ESP       Foundation        -                    300           108             -             -              -         -               -           408
training Refresher          -                      -           300             -             -              -         -               -           300
Source: LGED ROSC MIS Database

Observations on Table 5: Throughout the project’s lifetime, the assimilation of information on
roles and responsibilities of relevant parties was a recurrent challenge. Acceleration of the
refresher training from AY2008 is striking and, joined by the much more prominent targeting of
social awareness campaigns at community level from AY2009, undoubtedly reinforced the base
for the project’s strong performance after the MTR.


                                                                     34
Table 6: Participants in Teacher training, AY2005-2012
                               AY         AY         AY          AY         AY         AY         AY         AY          AY
                              2005       2006       2007        2008       2009       2010       2011       2012       2005-
                                                                                                                        2012
Teacher          Basic         727       7,184      3,027       4,066             -   6,325       3,899            -   25,228
training
                 Refresher           -   7,400      3,027       4,066             -   6,828             -          -   21,321
(participants)
                 Subject             -          -          -     727        9,205     6,325       3,645            -   19,902
                 based
Classroom        TGM                 -          -   3,027       7,093      10,120     6,168             -          -   26,408
support          *classroom
                 Monthly             -          -          -           -          -          -   11,193     9,981      21,174
                 teacher
                 training
                 Intensive           -          -          -           -          -          -    1,604     6,175       7,779
                 teacher
                 training
Total                        727   7,893 10,884 14,867 14,685 17,097 13,795 10,913 90,861
number of
LC teachers
(based on 2nd
semester)
*TGM = “Teacher Group Meeting”
Source: LGED ROSC MIS Database; information in 2012 is based on newly constructed ROSC MIS-Cell teacher
database.

Note to Table 6: Initially, the ERPs were to provide a 10-day foundational and 3-day refresher
training, plus “Teacher Group Meetings” (TGM). Until project midterm, there were weaknesses
mainly due to an insufficient number of experienced Master Trainers (less than half of MTs were
experienced in primary education and the MT dropout rate was high). The Aides-memoire from
implementation support missions observed that CMCs were unable to hold all ERPs accountable
for their services; furthermore, there was a great need to add measures to support the weakest LCs
who required intensive, practice-based support (e.g. for multi-grade teaching). The Bank and
GOB team response is evident in the number of participants in intensive teacher training in the
latter two years of the project. Shifting the training from Upazila to cluster level helped to
increase the contact hours between MTs and LC teachers. Supporting the increased field presence
of ERP representatives were: progressively more active oversight and field-level engagement by
ROSCU staff and consultants, sequenced lesson plans prepared by ROSCU, and introduction of
quality bonuses to reward MTs and teachers for better student results in grade completion and
Grade 5 exam pass rates.




                                                           35
Table 7: Percentage of students reaching expected competency levels
    Cohort          No. students       % <40 marks       % 41-59 marks   %60-79 marks      % > 80 marks
                                      B*   M     E       B    M     E    B    M    E       B    M     E
     2005                   23,379     7     7     8     25    19   28   50   47    49     18   27    15
     2006                  245,165     2     1     3     24    18   30   57   55    53     17   26    14
     2010                  311,450     4     3     5     19    16   20   60   54    61     17   27    14


                                        50% & above marks in Bangla         50% & above marks in Math
                                      LC self-reported  LGED Field       LC self-reported  LGED Field
                                      (ROSC Form 10)    Monitoring       (ROSC Form 10)    Monitoring
     2008                                         97%            94%                 99%            92%
     2009                                         97%            69%                 99%            64%


                                                 % students with qualifying marks in Bangla & Math
                                       LC self-reported (ROSC Form 10)           LGED Field Monitoring
     2011                    5645**                                 91%                                89%
*B = Bangla, M=Math, E=English
** Number of students interviewed

Note to Table 7: The table on student performance is based on LC teachers’ assessments,
reported to the ROSC MIS Cell. Third party evaluations under the project also provide
perspectives on trends in students’ performance over time and compare across school types. A
standard achievement test administered to 5063 Grade 2 students in 2006 found LC students in
grant areas consistently outperformed students in other formal primary schools in grant areas,
formal primary schools in control areas, and LC students in grant-plus-allowance areas (Baseline
Survey 2006). A follow-up survey of 2306 of the original baseline students in 2008 found that
test scores in Bangla and Math for grant-only LCs once again had a very similar distribution to
those for non-ROSC schools, but that both grant and grant-plus-allowance LCs had performed as
well as non-ROSC schools in boosting student test scores from 2006 to 2008 (Dang, Sarr,
Asadullah, 2001).




                                                    36
     Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1. The economic analysis presented is an assessment of benefits and costs associated with the
   Bangladesh ROSC-I program. Costs include program costs occurred during project period and
   private costs that comprise direct household outlays as well as opportunity costs for schooling.
   The benefits are calculated based on the wage premium for Grade 5 completers of ROSC-I. The
   economic analysis presented here focuses on the eight-year project period, 2005-2012.

2. Source of benefits are from improved access to primary education resulting in increased number
   of primary school completers (Table 1 below) who earn higher wage relative to non-completers.
   The primary completers will earn the wage-premium. Wage levels for primary completers with
   some junior secondary education and non-completers is estimated from HIES 2010 and then
   projected to account for inflation (12% annually) for future years (the earning differential in 2010
   is estimated to be over BDT7,200 or US$87 per person annually). The benefit stream accruing
   from lifetime earnings for the four cohorts is assumed to continue for 21 years (even though a
   typical primary completer will earn beyond 20 years, “discounting” will make the values
   insignificant beyond this time).
                           Table 1: Impact of ROSC-I on the number of Primary Cycle Completers
                     2005                        2006                2007            2008            2009                    2010                    2011                 2012
 Grade 5
 completers                 895                     2,695               7,715            19,694            55,440                 224,137              317,395              444,717
 (cumulative)
 Total                     30,145                  254,054             357,153           495,063           477,760                533,615              428,985              359,617
 Enrollees


3. ROSC-I program costs are estimated based on project cost occurred during the period 2005-2012
   and estimated private cost of schooling including direct and indirect (opportunity cost) costs
   (Table 2). Per student private household cost (of attending primary school annually among
   bottom 40 % poor households) is about US$4 in 2010 as estimated using HIES 2010 data, and it
   is discounted to each corresponding project year; similarly, opportunity cost (forgone earnings)
   per student per year while attending school is estimated to be US$21 per student aged 6-12 in
   2010 and discounted to each corresponding project year.
                                           Table 2: ROSC Project Costs and Private costs, US$ million

                                    2005                2006           2007          2008          2009              2010               2011                2012
                                           3.3                 6.2            9.8           8.9           14.3          15.4                30.8                   10.0
      Total Project Cost
      Private Household                    0.1                 0.6            1.0           1.6            1.7              2.1                1.9                  1.8
      Cost
                                           0.4                 3.3            5.2           8.1            8.8          11.0                   9.9                  9.3
      Opportunity Cost
                                           3.7               10.2           16.0          18.5            24.7          28.4                42.6                   21.0
      Total


4. Based on a discount rate of 12 percent for the benefit and cost streams described above, the
   present discounted value of benefits (as of 2005) for the base-case scenario is estimated to be
   US$478 million while the present discounted value of costs is estimated to be US$91 million, and
   therefore the net present value (NPV) of program benefits is $328 million. The internal rate of
   return (IRR) associated with this NPV is 27 percent (Table 3 below).




                                                                                    37
Table 3: Discounted Present Values of Benefits and Costs streams,
ROSC 2005-2012, US$ million
 Cost (NPV)                                                                 90.75
 Benefit(NPV)                                                              478.52
 Net Benefit(NPV)                                                          328.22
 Internal Rate of Return (IRR)                                                   27%
Note: Discount Rate of 12% is used in deriving the DPVs, Discounted as of 2005




                                                       38
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
Names                     Title                              Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Nilufar Ahmad             Senior Social Scientist            SASES      Safeguards
Mahmudul Alam             Senior Education Economist         SASHD      Economic analysis
                                                                        Learning Center
Maria Elena Andersen      Consultant                         SASED
                                                                        grants
Irajen Appasamy           Senior Operations Officer          AFTEW      Operations
Beatrice Avalos           Consultant                         SASED      Education quality
                                                                        Monitoring &
Hon-Chan Chai             Consultant                         SASED
                                                                        Evaluation
Amit Dar                  Lead Education Economist           SASED      Co-Team Leader
                                                                        Communications &
Maria Eitel               Consultant                         SASED
                                                                        social awareness
Zafrul Islam              Lead Procurement Specialist        SARPS      Procurement
Scherezad Monami Latif    Senior Education Specialist        SASED      Management
                                                                        Education allowances
Shiva Raj Lohani          Consultant                         SASED
                                                                        & grants
Hena G. Mukherjee         Consultant, Lead Education Specialist SASED   Co-Team Leader
Yoko Nagashima            Senior Education Specialist           SASED   Education quality
Rajat Narula              Senior Finance Officer                LOAG2   Disbursements
                                                                        Management,
Md. Mokhlesur Rahman      Senior Operations Officer          SASED      procurement &
                                                                        costing
Shobhana Sosale           Senior Operations Officer          AFTEW      Education
Kishor Uprety             Senior Counsel                     LEGES      Legal
                                                                        Social mobilization &
Carolyn Winter            Senior Social Development Spec     MNSSU
                                                                        communications
                          Senior Financial Management                   Financial
Suraiya Zannath                                              SARFM
                          Specialist                                    management

Supervision/ICR
Nilufar Ahmad             Consultant                         SASDU      Safeguards
                          Senior Financial Management                   Financial
Burhanuddin Ahmed                                            SARFM
                          Specialist                                    management
                                                                        SDC Program
Tahsinah Ahmed            Gender specialist                  SDC
                                                                        Manager
Irajen Appasamy           Senior Operations Officer          AFTEW      Co-Team Leader
                          Senior Financial Management                   Financial
Papia Battacharya
                          Specialist                                    management
Hon-Chan Chai             Consultant                         SASED      M&E
Nazmul Chaudhury          Lead Economist                     HDNCE      Research & analysis
                          Consultant, Financial Management              Financial
Aminur Rahman Chowdhury                                      SARFM
                          Specialist                                    management
Helen J. Craig            Lead Human Development Special     AFTHD      Education
Amit Dar                  Lead Education Economist           SASED      Co-Team Leader



                                              39
Subrata S. Dhar             Senior Operations Officer                 SASED   Co-Team Leader
Marghoob Bin Hussein        Senior Procurement Specialist             SARPS   Procurement
Syed Rashed Al-Zayed Josh   Research Associate                        SASED   ICR Co-Team Leader
Qaiser M. Khan              Sector Lead Economist                     AFTHD   Economic analysis
Fabienne Lagier             Education Advisor                         SDC     Education
Pema Lhazom                 Senior Operations Officer                 EASHH   Co-Team Leader
                                                                              Education allowances
Shiva Raj Lohani            Consultant                                SASED
                                                                              & grants
                                                                              Administrative
Bertha M. Mburugu           Program Assistant                         LCSPS
                                                                              support
Marta Elena Molares-
                            Lead Counsel                              LEGES   Legal
Halberg
Hena G. Mukherjee           Consultant, Sr. Education Specialist      SASED   Co-Team Leader
Yoko Nagashima              Senior Education Specialist               SASED   Education
                            Senior Financial Management                       Financial
Rajat Narula                                                          EASFM
                            Specialist                                        management
Susan Opper                 Consultant, Senior Education Specialist   SASED   ICR Co-Team Leader
Dilip Parajuli              Senior Economist                          SASED   Co-Team Leader
                                                                              Capacity building &
Md. Mokhlesur Rahman        Sr. Operations Officer                    SASED
                                                                              environment
                                                                              Administrative
Nazma Sultana               Program Assistant                         SASHD
                                                                              support
Harvinder Singh Suri        Consultant                                SARPS   Procurement
                                                                              Financial
Amandeep Trana              Sr. Financial Management Specialist       SARFM
                                                                              management



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                  No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY04                                                         53.30                         301.71
FY05                                                          0.00                          -6.47
TOTAL:                                                       53.30                         295.24
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                        0.00                            0.00
  FY05                                                       43.90                         170.30
  FY06                                                       56.35                         216.61
  FY07                                                       35.31                         126.10
  FY08                                                       29.20                          97.86
TOTAL:                                                      164.56                         610.87




                                                40
Annex 5. Borrower's Comments on Draft ICCR and Summary of Government’s ICR


5.1 Comments on Draft ICCR


                     Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
                          Ministry of Primary and Mass Education
                              Bangladesh Secretariat, Dhaka
                                     Planning Section-2
                                    www.mopme.gov.bd

  No. 38.013.014.57.01.070.2012-189                                  Date: 19 December 2013

    Subject: Comments on Implementation Completion and Results Report of ROSC-I.

       The undersigned is directed to convey the following comments on the Implementation
Completion and Results Report of ROSC-I project prepared by the World Bank:

   1. ROSC Project is one of the most challenging projects of the Government attempting to
      reach the primary school dropouts and the un- enrolled children in the remotest and the
      most inaccessible rural areas and those from the most disadvantaged families. While the
      Government’s sincere efforts to enroll and retain all children of school going age in the
      primary schools has been considerably successful as evident in the enrolment rates and
      gradual decrease in dropout rates, still there are a significant number of children from the
      disadvantaged families in the rural Bangladesh who, for various reasons, couldn’t be
      enrolled or even if enrolled, couldn’t complete the primary education cycle and move to
      the next level of education. ROSC Project has given them the opportunity to complete
      primary education and many of them have moved to secondary education paving their
      way for better opportunities in life. The fact that more than 750 thousand children have
      received education in the Ananda Schools is no simple achievement, more so when we
      take into cognizance the odds against which this has been achieved. These are the
      children coming from the poorest of the poor families, many of them are the first
      generation learners and many of them have to contribute to the family earnings for a
      living.

   2. In the last 10 years, ROSC had to overcome many obstacles in implementation.
      Gathering un-enrolled and dropped-out children, particularly in the inaccessible areas,
      bundling them up, and grooming them at a center for a 5 year cycle, was not an easy
      task to perform.

   3. As documented in the ICR, the ROSC Project, being a pilot project, went through a steep
      learning process, because of its unique features tried for the first time in Bangladesh. The
      attempt to blend formal education with the non-formal mode of delivery, trying to bring
      synergy between the Government’s sincere efforts and the much acclaimed experiences
      of the Bangladesh NGOs in non-formal education, making the government officials on the
      ground work with the local NGOs in a complex web of power relations in the rural areas,
      attempting to empower the rural school communities with considerable decision making
      authority vested in them were daunting challenges, and might have been considered by
      some too much for an education project to take on by itself. It demands a change in work
      culture, a change in the mindset of the people both at the center and on the ground. Yet,
      ROSC Project has started the process and set an example which the Government
      intends to pursue further with confidence based on the experiences of implementing this
      Project. While ROSC Project was implemented only in 90 upazilas of the country, the
      Government has now decided to follow the ROSC model in the rural areas through



                                               41
        ROSC II Project in 148 upazilas and through second chance education program under
        PEDP III in the rest of the country knowing that that there are still many out-of-school
        children in Bangladesh. This is a testimony of the fact how important ROSC model is to
        the government.

    4. In spite of all the narrations sketched above, it would also be important to record the
       experience that had been achieved during implementation of ROSC-II. It is to be noted
       that at the end of ROSC-I the ongoing LCs of 48 upazilas were transferred to ROSC-II
       Project. A validation of LCs in 48 upazilas in ROSC-II shows a considerable number of
       students enrolled in 2010 and 2011 are missing. While this could have happened due to
       a number of factors during transition or before, we need to be careful in addressing this
       issue in the new project.

    5. Moreover, one significant achievement of ROSC Project also documented in the ICR, is
       the elaborate M&E system the ROSC-1 had in place, which the report reveals, is a good
       example to be followed in other project as well. The M&E system in terms of technicality
       was excellent but it had also some limitations in capturing the ground scenario of the
       project results.

    6. The experience of implementing ROSC project with all its innovations, the challenges that
       it incited and faced are a tremendous asset for the Government. While we can’t claim
       success in every aspect of the project, we certainly learned what the issues are and how
       to tackle them in our subsequent efforts in providing education to the most disadvantaged
       children both under ROSC II Project and the second chance education program being
       designed for the rest of the country following the ROSC model.

    7. We always appreciate your contribution for the primary education sector of Bangladesh
       and hope that this excellent partnership between the World Bank and MoPME will
       continue in the future.


                Kindest Regards,


                                                                           (Md. Motasim Billah)
                                                                          Senior Assistant Chief
                                                                               Phone: 9568829
                                                                          mopme.plan2@gmail.com



Country Director
The World Bank Dhaka Office
E/8-A Rokeya Sharani Sher-e-Bangla Nagar
Dhaka-1207.
(Attention: Mr. Subrata S Dhar, Senior Operations Officer)

cc:
1. Director General, Directorate of Primary Education, Mirpur-2, Dhaka-1216.
2. Project Director, Reaching Out of School Children (ROSC) Project-Phase-II, Directorate of
    Primary Education, Mirpur-2, Dhaka-1216
3. P. S to Secretary, Ministry of Primary and Mass Education.
4. P. O to Deputy Chief, Ministry of Primary and Mass Education.



                                               42
5.2 Borrower’s ICR

1. Location of the Project
90 remote and disadvantaged upazilas of Bangladesh and 74 Shishu Kalyan Trust School

2. Implementing Agency
Directorate of Primary Education

3. Administrative Ministry
Ministry of Primary and Mass Education

4. Background
Over the last two decades Bangladesh has achieved remarkable social and economic development
in the areas of poverty alleviation, human development and education, especially primary
education. The pass rate has increased at the primary level in the past few years. Gender parity in
primary education has reached a significantly high level. But there are still 35 million hardcore
poor people in Bangladesh and half of the total population is still illiterate. The country is yet to
ensure equal educational opportunities across all regions. Many school-age children are still
deprived of education. Besides, many of those who get enrolled cannot complete the primary
education cycle.

In order to cope with these problems, the government has initiated some programs in light of the
National Education Policy 2010. In spite of such interventions, a huge number of 6-10 year old
children (particularly from poor sections of the population) continue to remain out of school. To
bring these backward and disadvantaged children into the mainstream of education, the
government is now implementing some special schemes such as Reaching Out-of-School
Children (ROSC) project which was aimed at providing primary education opportunities to the
dropouts and out-of-school children from the remote and backward areas of the country. The
Directorate of Primary Education (DPE) of the Ministry of Primary and Mass Education
(MoPME) was responsible for implementing the project. ROSC created an opportunity for 7,
80,000 children to complete their primary education cycle through 23,000 learning centers (LCs)
which are known as Ananda Schools (Schools of Joy). Every LC is meant to provide non-formal
education to 35 children through one teacher.

5. Objectives of the Project
a) To create primary education opportunities for disadvantaged, out-of-school children by setting
up LCs;
b) To improve the quality and efficiency of primary education; and
c) To strengthen the relevant institutions and increase their efficiency.

6. Approval of the Project
The ROSC project was approved on 6 May, 2004 in order to ensure educational opportunities for
the disadvantaged, out-of-school children as part of the Education for All initiative. The estimated
cost of the project was Tk. 3907.2 million and its duration was from July 2004 to June 2010. In
order to deal with a discrepancy between the approved Project Proposal (PP) and the
Development Grant Agreement (DGA) and the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the project
was revised on 19 January, 2006 through a Departmental Project Evaluation Committee (DPEC)
meeting held in the MoPME. The cost of the revised project stood at Tk. 3830.2 million of which
the GoB share was Tk. 236.8 million and the amount of project aid Tk. 3593.4 million. Based on
the recommendations of a Mid-Term Review and those of various missions carried out by the
development partners, the project was revised for the second time on 6 November, 2008 at a total


                                                 43
cost of Tk. 3240.9 million. The GoB share was Tk. 183.5 million and the amount of project aid
Tk. 6057.4 million.

A total of 4,91,416 children were enrolled in the LCs under four cohorts of the project up to
2005-8, the duration of every cohort being 5 years. At the end of the project duration only 11%
learners could complete their primary education cycle, with the remaining 89% learners
continuing their education in the LCs. On the other hand, the expenditure up to December, 2009
was only Tk. 3058.0 million which was not up to the expectation.

Based on the recommendations of the 7th and 8th IDA Supervision Missions, the MoPME
proposed to expand the project activities in 30 new upazilas and open some additional LCs in the
old project upazilas in order to bring 2,50,000 more children under the project intervention. In
line with this proposal the project was revised for the third time on 29 April, 2010 at an estimated
cost of Tk. 6843.2 million ( GoB: Tk. 367.0 million and project aid: Tk. 6476.2 million).

7. Objective of the Project and Achievements
   Objective                           Actual Achievements
   The key project development            1. Under the Project, some 780,000 children who
   objective is to improve equitable          either dropped out of school or were never
   access, retention and completion in        enrolled got a second chance to education in
   quality primary education for out-         some 23,000 Learning Centers (Ananda
   of-school children in selected             Schools) in the remote areas of Bangladesh.
   under-served areas.                    2. Under the Project, some 23,000 unemployed
                                              young males and females got job opportunities
                                              as teachers and were empowered to participate
                                              in the decision making processes in their
                                              respective families.
                                          3. Some 98% of the chairpersons of the Ananda
                                              Schools have been elected from the female
                                              parents and they have run the schools
                                              efficiently.
                                          4. Financial assistance has been provided to 74
                                              schools run by Shishu Kalyan Trust and to some
                                              20,000 students in those schools.
                                          5. A total of 252 students have been provided
                                              vocational training in vocational education
                                              centers established with help from UCEP in
                                              Dhaka

8. Areas Visited
An Inter-ministerial Evaluation Committee formed to evaluate the ROSC Project visited 19
schools selected through random sampling from five divisions of the country. They included
seven schools in Kamalgonj Upazila of Moulovibazar district under Sylhet division, three schools
in Ukhia Upazila of Cox’s Bazar district under Chittagong division, two schools in Sadar Upazila
of Bogra district under Rajshahi division, five schools of Sadar Upazila of Thakurgaon district
under Rangpur division, and two schools in Char Fashion Upazila of Barishal division.




                                                44
9. Strengths of the Ananda Schools under ROSC Project

      Ananda School students have completed five-year primary education cycle. Some of
       these students were never enrolled in schools and ROSC Project has given them the
       opportunity which they wouldn’t have had otherwise.
      Ananda Schools have created employment for teachers which have given them the
       opportunity to earn their livelihood.
      Schools are being run with direct participation of the local communities. Women
       constitute 75% of the teachers of Ananda Schools, who play an important role also in the
       society and their respective families.
      Ananda Schools have been particularly effective in the socio-economic contexts of the
       poorer areas, among the poor people in the tea estates and the remote areas of the country.
      The Project has played an important role in reducing child marriage, dowry system and
       child labor.

10. Challenges faced in implementation of ROSC
As evident from the school visits, Ananda Schools were facing a number of challenges that need
to be addressed with due attention in any new intervention. One significant challenge was
dropouts from Ananda Schools before completion of primary cycle. For example, some 36% of
the students in Kamalgonj Upazila did not participate in the Grade V terminal examinations. In
some schools, the names of the replaced students were not properly recorded resulting in
mismatch between the ID profiles and some of the current students. Some schools did not strictly
follow the criteria regarding age of children admitted to the Ananda Schools. This has also
affected the school performance. Besides, one school in Ukhia Upazila had seven students
allegedly enrolled also in the nearest primary school. Monitoring from the master trainers and
head teachers from the nearest primary schools was reportedly weak. In general, monitoring
under ROSC has been a significant challenge.

Although CMCs are at the heart of ROSC project, they have not been found equally active in all
schools. This might have resulted in lack of supervision with regard to class room and school
environment. Some schools did not have quality teaching and learning materials. Students in
some cases did not receive school uniform. There was an instance of classes being held in the
drawing room of a teacher. Some schools did not have proper toilet facilities. While some of
these problems emanated from practical constraints, many of them could be resolved with active
intervention from CMCs, government officials and ESPs.

School performance has also been hindered because of the quality of teachers recruited in some
upazilas. Training of teachers has also been an issue. Teachers were found particularly weak in
Mathematics and English which might have also been reflected in the performance of the schools
they ran. A major focus should be on recruitment of qualified teachers and providing them with
extensive training under any new intervention.

Some administrative weaknesses also need to be corrected. For example, in Ukhia upazila,
students and teachers of 11 schools did not receive any salary and allowance for 16 months. This
affects the morale of teachers, school communities and students.

11. Overall observation
Under the ROSC Approach, students participate in the Grade V terminal examinations after
completion of a five-year primary education cycle. ROSC Learning Centers use the textbooks
prepared by NCTB. Timing of school is flexible and can be decided on the basis of convenience



                                              45
of the children who might have dropped out of formal schools because of the problem of school
timing. The approach is premised upon the idea of provision of formal education through
nonformal approach. Under the present design, student can complete primary education cycle in
five years and enter the mainstream for secondary education. There is no problem of
equivalencies as in the case of other nonformal education systems.

12. Recommendations

   In order to ensure attendance and participation of students in terminal examinations, it is
    important that adequate measures be taken to create awareness among parents and school
    communities through appropriate communication activities.

   To cleanse the anomalies in student record, ID profiles need to be updated. While it is
    important to have a central database of the student, it would also be useful to have local data
    base accessible to the actors in the upazilas.

   It is extremely important that the quality of the teachers of Ananda Schools be enhanced.
    Since ROSC follows the one-teacher-one school model, it is not unlikely that a teacher may
    not be proficient in all subjects. Therefore, it is imperative that the teachers undergo high-
    quality intensive training over an extended time, particularly on subjects like mathematics
    and English. It would also be useful to provide the teachers with better salaries and allowance
    so that better teachers can be attracted to the job.

   The project authority needs to put in place strict monitoring to ensure that under-aged
    children are not admitted to Ananda Schools. There should be an effort to bring the children
    back to the mainstream education. The project authority needs to create this awareness among
    Upazila Education Officers and parents.

   The Upazila Education Officers need to take appropriate actions to ensure the resources
    allocated for teaching learning materials are properly used. It would be helpful for students to
    have a six-inch high small table, particularly when they write something. The jute mats used
    in the class room can be replaced with plastic mats which are more durable. The project
    authority can consider having an allocation of these items.

   The project or the Upazila Education Office should directly deliver the school uniforms.
    There should also be some allocations for maintaining cleanliness of the schools.

   It would be useful to decide on exact criteria for school house and strictly follow them.
    Proper water and sanitation facilities should also be ensured.

   Measures need to be taken to ensure disbursement of salaries of teachers and student
    allowance in due time.

   Regular CMC meetings and other important meetings should be held and participation of the
    head teacher of the nearest primary school, union council member, and upazila education
    officer should be ensured.

   Strict monitoring should be in place in conformity with the ROSC criteria to ensure the
    student allowances reach the right students.




                                                46
   School visits and monitoring need to be considerably strengthened involving the head
    teachers of the nearest primary schools, Upazila Education Officers and other relevant
    officials.

   School hours under ROSC Project are different in different areas. It might be necessary to
    reorganize the schedules in keeping with the school hours in the primary schools of the
    respective areas.

   In the light of the experiences in implementing this Project, it can be said that ROSC has
    proved to be a tested and acceptable model in bringing the children from disadvantaged
    background back to school and to the mainstream and providing them with a second chance
    to education. In view of this, it is recommended that the ROSC model be followed in
    providing second chance education to the children of other areas of the country with similar
    characteristics.




                                              47
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

Government of Bangladesh

Ministry of Primary and Mass Education:
  (1) Education for All: National Plan of Action II: 2003-2015. Ministry of Primary
        and Mass Education, Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh,
        May 2003.
  (2) Primary Education Situational analysis, Strategies and Action Plan for Mainstreaming
       Tribal Children. Second Primary Education Development Program PEDP II, August 2006.

Ministry of Finance:
  (1) Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, March 2003.
  (2) “Minutes of the Appraisal Wrap-up Meeting for Additional Financing of the
       ‘Reaching Out-of-School Children Project,’ Ministry of Finance, Economic
       Relations Division, No. ERD/IDA-2/ROSCP/03(Part-5)/09/27, dated February 22,
       2010.
  (3) “Amendment of the Development Grant Agreement (DGA) of Reaching out of
       School Children Project (IDA Grant # H 102-BD),” Ministry of Finance,
       Economic Relations Division, No. 09.222.024.02.08.015.2009-10 dated 30
       January 2011.

Bangladesh Bureau of Educational Information and Statistics:
   (1) Bangladesh Education Statistics. BANBEIS Publication No. 404. Dhaka, 2011.

The World Bank
   (1) Country Assistance Strategy for the People’s Republic of Bangladesh, dated February 8,
       2001. Report No. 21326-DB.
   (2) Interim Poverty Reduction Support Program 2003.
  (3) Project Appraisal Document for a Reaching Out-of-School Children Project,
       dated May 19, 2004. Report No. 29019-BD.
  (4) Development Grant Agreement (Reaching Out-of-School Children Project)
       between People’s Republic of Bangladesh and International Development
      Association, dated June 30, 2004. Grant Number H102-BD.
  (5) Project Paper on a Proposed Additional Credit in the Amount of SDR 23.1
      Million (US$35 million equivalent) to The People’s Republic of Bangladesh for
      the Reaching Out-of-School Children Project, Report No. 53926-BD, April 8,
      2010.
  (6) Financing Agreement (Additional Financing for the Reaching Out-of-School
       Children Project) between People’s Republic of Bangladesh and International
       Development Association, dated June 7, 2010. Grant Number 4719-BD.
  (7) “Bangladesh: Reaching Out-of-School Children Project (Grant H102-BD)
       Extension of Closing Date and Amendment to the Development Grant
       Agreement, letter from the World Bank Acting Country Director dated
       June 16, 2010.
  (8) Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Reaching Out-of-
       School Children Project (Grant H-1020-BS) June 17, 2004 to the People’s
       Republic of Bangladesh, February 22, 2011.




                                              48
Additional Project Documents
  (1) “Minutes of Negotiations between the People’s Republic of Bangladesh and the
       International Development Association, “Additional Financing for the Reaching Out-of-
       School Children Project, April 7, 2010.
  (2) Report on Post Review of Procurement Contracts [2004-2007] Reaching Out-of-School
       Children (ROSC) Project prepared by A. Qasem & Col. Chartered Accountants, August
       2007.

Research & Evaluation Reports
   (1) AcNeilson report on ESP performance 2005-2007
   (2) Ahmed, A. U. (2006) Evaluating the Reaching Out-of-School Children Project in
        Bangladesh: A Baseline Study, International Food Policy Research Institute,
        Washington, D.C. in collaboration with the Data Analysis and Technical
        Assistance, Ltd. , Dhaka, Bangladesh.
   (3) Dang, H-A, Sarr, L. and Asadullah, N. (2011). “School Access, Resources, and
        Learning Outcomes: Evidence from a Non-formal School Program in Bangladesh.
        IZA DP No. 5659, Discussion Paper Series, Institute for the Study of Labor, Bonn,
        Germany.
   (4) HB Consultants, Ltd. (2007) Tracer Study for the Graduate Children of ROSC
         Learning Centers (LCs) and Shishu Kallyan Trust (SKT) Under the Reaching
         Out-of-School Children (ROSC) Project. Dhaka, Bangladesh.
   (5) Uniconsult International, Ltd. (2011). Final Report on ‘Quantitative Evaluation
         of Reaching Out-of-School Children (ROSC) Project (Package: S-8-2)’. Dhaka,
         Bangladesh.
   (6) Pathmark. Quality Study on ROSC, 2010.
   (7) RESPONSE. Non-formal Primary Education Performance Study.
   (8) Sarr, L.; Dang, H-A; Chaudhury, N.; Parajuli, D.; and Asadullah, N. Reaching Out-f-
       School Children Project (ROSC): Evaluation Report. Version 3.4 November 30, 2010.
       Human Development Sector, South Asia Region, The World Bank, Washington, D.C.




                                             49
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 33368R
                   To Gangtok
    88ºE                                               89ºE                      BHUTAN                      90ºE                                           91ºE

                                                                                                                                                                                         B A N GL A D ESH
                                                                                                                                                                                                         DISTRICT CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                                                         DIVISION CAPITALS
                                                                                             To
                                                                                            Dispur
                                    Panchagar                                                                                                                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL
  To                           PANCHAGAR                                                                                                                                                                 RIVERS
 Patna
                                                                                                                                                      BANGLADESH
                                                                                                                                                                                                         MAIN ROADS



                                                                 LA
  26ºN         Thakurgaon




                                                                  LM
                                              NILPHAMARI                                                                                                                                                 RAILROADS



                                                                     O
                                                                       N
             THAKURGAON                          Nilphamari                      Lalmonirhat




                                                                         IR
                                                                           HA
                                                                                                                                                                                                         DISTRICT BOUNDARIES



                                                                             T
                                                                                       Kurigram
                                                              Rangpur                                                                                                                                    DIVISION BOUNDARIES
   To                                                                                KURIGRAM
 Katihar                                  Dinajpur             RANGPUR
                                                                                                                                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                             DINAJPUR                                                            To
                                                                                                               Goalpara

     To
                                                                                                                                                       I N DI A
   Katihar                                                                 Gaibandha                                                                                                         To         92ºE                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                            Dispur                          Dispur
                                                                           GAIBANDHA

                                                      JOYPURHAT
                                                                                                               SERPUR
                                                            Joypurhat                                                                                              Sunamganj
                                                                                                                                                                                                     SYLHET
  25ºN                                                                                                           Serpur                                                                                                                       25ºN
                                    NAOGAON
                                                                           BOGRA                  Jamalpur
                                                                                                                                         NETROKONA                       SUNAMGANJ          Sylhet
                                    Naogaon
                                                                            Bogra                     JAMALPUR                                 Netrokona
                                     RAJSHAHI                                                                                  Mymensingh
                                                                                                                                                                                  SYLHET
           NOWABGANJ                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Silchar
                                                                                                                           MYMENSINGH
                                                                                        J
                                                                                        Jaamuna




                         Nowabganj
                              RAJSHAHI                                                                                    DHAKA                         Kishorganj                           MOULVI BAZAR
                                                                                             na




                                                                                 Serajganj                                                                                  HABIGANJ         Moulvi Bazar
               G
                   an               Rajshahi               Natore
                                                                                SERAJGANJ                                                             KISHORGANJ
                      ge                                  NATORE                                               TANGAIL
                           s
                                                                                                                                                                            Habiganj
                                                                                                             Tangail

                                                                                                                                    GAZIPUR
                                                                        PABNA
                                                                        Pabna                                                     Gazipur     NARSINGDI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I N D IA                   24ºN
                                                                                                                                                          a

  24ºN
                                                                                                                                                        gh n


                                                                                                                                              Narsingdi            Brahmanbaria
                                                                                                                                                       Me




    I NDI A                                      KUSHTIA Kushtia
                                                                                                   Manikanj            DHAKA
                                                                                                                                                            BRAHMAN
                                                                                                                                                              BARIA
                                     Meherpur
                                                                                            Rajbari MANIKGANJ                          NARAYNGANJ
                               MEHERPUR          Chuadanga                       RAJBARI                               DHAKA            Naraynganj
                                                                                                       Faridpur                                    COMILLA
                                     CHUADANGA
                                                                  Jhenaidah
                                                                         Magura                                         MUNSHIGANJ
                                                                                               FARIDPUR                   G  a n geMunshiganj
                                                      JHENAIDAH                                                                    s
                                                                         MAGURA                                                                                Comilla



                                                                                                                                                                                                           HARI
  To                                                                                                                SARIATPUR                 CHANDPUR
                                                                                                                                                                                                      RACH
Calcutta                                                                                                               Sariatpur
                                                       Jessore                     Narail                         Madaripur                 Chandpur                                                         Khagrachhari
                                                                                                                                                                                                     KHAG

                                                                                                           MADARIPUR
                                                                                  NARAIL
                                                              JESSORE                              GOPALGANJ
                                                                                                      Gopalganj                                                                Feni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              23ºN
  23ºN
                                                          KHULNA                                                                                 LUXMIPUR
                                                                                                                                                  Luxmipur NOAKHALI          FENI
                                                                                      Khulna                              BARISAL
                                                                                                                                                                 Noakhali                                         RANGAMATI
                                                             Satkhira     KHULNA
                                                                                      Bagerhat
                                                                                                  PEROJPUR
                                                                                                   Jhalukathi                     Barisal     Bhola                 C H I T TA G O N G
                                                      SATKHIRA                                           JHALUKATHI                                                                                    Rangamati         Kaptai
  To
Calcutta                                                                                 BAGERHAT    Perojpur                                                                                                           Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                         CHITTAGONG
                                                                                                                 BARISAL
                                                                                                                                Patuakhali      BHOLA
                                                                                    a
                                                                            D e l t
                                                                                                                               PATUAKHALI                                             Chittagong
                                          s
                                G a n g e
                                                                                                                       Barguna
                                                                                                               BARGUNA                                                                                                Bandarban



                                                                                                                                                es
  22ºN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        22ºN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mt. Mowdok
                                                              ns                                                                             ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (957 m)

                                                       a r ba                                                                            G a
                                                     d
                                                 Sun                                                                        the                                                                                       BANDARBAN

                                                                                                               of                                                                                     COX’S
                                                               ths                                                                                                                                    BAZAR
                                                          Mou
                                                                                                                                                                                            Cox's Bazar
                     0 10 20 30 40 50 Kilometers

                                                                                                                           Bay of Bengal
                     0         10   20      30       40       50 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MYANMAR
           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
  21ºN     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                                                    21ºN
           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                     89ºE                                                    90ºE                                            91ºE                                           92ºE                     Sittwe

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MARCH 2008
