Bringing More Disadvantaged Children Back to Schools
                                                                                                    93482
                                                                                                    May 8, 2012




 Bangladesh’s Partnership Approach to Enhancing Access to Education


Overview
From its inception in 2004, the Bangladesh Reaching Out of School Children (ROSC) project
has provided “second chance” primary education to over 790,000 out of school children in
more than 23,000 learning centers. Beneficiary students, more than half of them girls, come
from the 90 poorest sub-districts (upazilas) of the country. The project, backed by funds and
technical assistance from the International Development Association (IDA), blends formal
education with non-formal means of delivery to the young learners, providing them with an
opportunity to complete grade five and transition to secondary education.


Challenge                                              MULTIMEDIA
In 2004, nearly 1.5 million primary school-aged
children were out of school in Bangladesh. The
government’s Primary Education Development
Program focused on the formal primary sector
that supported about 17 million students, yet still
could not bring many children back to school.
These were the children who had missed out
schooling at the right age or had been forced to
drop out, mainly because of poverty. In the
context of diverse necessities in primary
education, and time needed to put in a single
mechanism to cater to all groups of children, the       Finance Minister Interview
Government of Bangladesh, with IDA support,
                                                        Girls Education in Bangladesh
introduced an innovative ROSC project to
achieve the country’s Education For All goals.          Reaching Out of School Children


Approach
The ROSC project provides access to learning opportunity              More Results
for out-of-school children by providing stipend allowances to
students and grants to learning centers. With community
management as the fulcrum, buttressed by a partnership
between the government and non-governmental
organizations (NGOs), the approach focuses on the                     790,000
establishment of learning centers. These are set up through           out of school children have been
a Center Management Committee directly accountable to                 enrolled
parents and students, as well as the Ministry of Primary and
Mass Education and its upazila (sub-district) field offices and
NGOs as implementation partners.  Operational program
delivery differs from the norms in primary schools in order to
cater to specific needs of students (e.g. ROSC students tend         90%
to be older than regular primary school students; students           attendance rate achieved
from multi-grade backgrounds are taught by a single class
teacher; and students and teachers follow a flexible school
timing to suit their mutual needs). 
                                                                    MORE INFORMATION

                                                                      ROSC I Project Documents
Results
                                                                      ROSC II Project Documents
The key outcomes of the ROSC project include:
 - Between 2005 and 2012, over 790,000 out-of-school               Reaching out of School Children
children, more than half of them girls, enrolled in more than      Feature
23,500 learning centers.                                           Bangladesh Country Site
-  The pass rate of ROSC students that appeared in the
                                                                   Connect with us on Facebook
nationally-conducted grade five terminal examinations has
risen to 83 percent in 2012, from 73 percent in 2011,              Talk to us on Twitter
providing ample opportunity to students with primary
completion equivalency for a transition to secondary
education.
-  Between 2005 and 2012, the average student attendance
rate exceeded 90 percent, while the teacher absence rate
was kept below 10 percent.
-  Women constituted more than 80 percent of all ROSC schoolteachers between 2005 and
2012 and close to 90 percent of all school management committee heads were females,
together representing significant female empowerment at the local level.

Voices


     My daughter now goes to the ROSC School. I am happy, we
   the women, have a say in our children’s education.  
                                                              — Nazma, Mother



Bank Contribution
ROSC funding consisted of IDA's original grant of $51 million in 2004, along with $6 million
from the Swiss Development Cooperation and government funding of $5 million. IDA approved
an additional $35 million for this project in 2010 to broaden the project’s impact to additional 30
upazilas.
 
Partners
The most notable partnership in ROSC project is between the government, the NGOs, and the
rural communities. Communities receive direct funds from the government and use these to pay
for the services of NGOs for initial start-up of the learning centers, and teacher training
support. At the field level, the Ministry of Primary and Mass Education’s Upazila Education
Officers facilitate the establishment and monitoring of learning centers.

Toward the Future
The first phase of ROSC was a pilot project implemented in just 60 poor upazilas across
Bangladesh and with additional financing, it was expanded to another 30. To scale-up the
impact of an already tested and proven ROSC approach a follow-on initiative, the Second
Reaching out of School Children Project (ROSC II) was approved in October 2012. The $130
million project will bring back to school an additional 720,000 children from poor and
disadvantaged families by providing stipends to the students and grants to the Learning
Centers. It will cover 148 remote or poor upazillas and help these children complete primary
education in the learning centers and move on to formal secondary education.
