Document of
The World Bank FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2942-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
POTASH ENGINEERING PROJECT
January 5, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Thai Baht (B)
B I          =  $0.05
B 1 million = $50,000
$1           =  B 20
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (cu m)       =  f.307 cubic yards (cu yd)
1 metric ton (mt)          =  0.98 long ton
1 kilometer (km)           =  0.621 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)=  0.386 square miles (sq mi)
ABBREVIATIONS
DMR - Department of Mineral Resources
IFCT - Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand
mtpy - metric tons per year
GOVERNMENT OF THAILAND
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
POTASH ENGINEERING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
borrower:        Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:           $8.9 million
Terms:            20 years, including 5 years of grace at 9.25% p.a.
Project           The project consists of (a) the execution of a feasibility
Description:      study, including trial mining operations, to determine the
technical, economic and financial viability of developing a
potash project in Thailand; (b) provision of financial
and legal services to assist the Government in negotiations
with private investors in the potash sector; and (c)
assistance to the Government in the formulation of broad
potash development policies. The feasibility study will be
executed in two phases, with the second phase carried out
only if the first phase is satisfactory. Tests and core
drilling work conducted to date indicate a good probability
that a viable potash development project will emerge
offering significant benefits to the economy by (a) helping
to industrialize a relatively underdeveloped region of the
country, generating direct and indirect benefits through
provision of infrastructure, services and related employ-
ment opportunities; (b) generating foreign exchange
revenues which will help alleviate the country-s balance of
payments; (c) contributing to the Government's fiscal base
through royalties and tax payments; and (d) providing the
country's agriculture sector with an important input to
production. The major risk associated with the proposed
engineering project is that if the development project is
not found to be technically and economically viable, the
investments made in the feasibility study would not be
recovered. This risk has been miinimized by performing a
significant amount of core drilling before initiating the
study, by phasing execution of the study and by ensuring
that the physical facilities to be developed under the
study will have other alternative uses.
This tiocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
oi ineir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                   Foreign      Local      Total
…-------- ($ 000)…--------
Foreign consultancy services under
feasibility study                            2,385       265       2,650
Equipment and civil works for
exploration shaft and trial
mining                                       3,390         80      3,470
Refinery tests and surveys                       185         40        225
Underground monitoring and rock
meclhanics equipment                           600          -        600
Rock mechanics laboratory                         40         60        100
Core drilling prograa                            270        330        600
Technical advisory service                       375         40        415
Legal and financial advisory service              65          5          70
Local support and miscellaneous                   55        390        445
Base Cost                                  7,365     1,210       8,575
Physical contingencies                           735        120        855
Price contingencies                              800        130        930
Total                                     8,900      1,460      10,360
Financing Plan:                                   Foreign      Local     Total
--------($ millions)-------
Bank                                               8.9         -        8.9
Governaent                                          -         1.5        1.5
8.9       1.5       10.4
Estimated Disbursements:                            ------ ($ millions)…
Bank FY:   1981       1982       1983
Annual                                             0.8        6.5        1.6
Cumulative                                         0.8        7.3        8.9
Rate of Return:   Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: None



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPIIENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE POTASH ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of $8.9 million to help finance
the Potash Engineering Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, with interest at 9.25% p.a.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand - Toward a Strategy of
Full Participation" (2059-TH) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 18, 1978. The Report concludes that Thailand's rapid economic
growth over the past 15 years has led to a significant reduction in absolute
poverty, but that the poorest have lagged behind this progress. It identi-
fies the essential characteristics of these groups and points to the need
for continued overall development as well as the initiation of specific
Measures to deal with the poverty problem, particularly in rural areas. It
further discusses the constraints on the successful implementation of these
policies. A Country Economic Memorandua which provides an updating of macro-
economic developments is currently under preparation. Country data are
given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        The frequent changes at the top levels of government, which have
characterized recent political developments in Thailand, have mainly reflected
differing views on Thailand's external relations and on the political
decision-making process within the country.  The Government under the prime
ministership of General Kriangsak Chomanan, formed in November 1977,
resigned on February 29, 1980, following increasing public and parliamentary
criticism of its economic policies. General Prem Tinsulanonda was elected
by the National Assembly to succeed Kriangsak as Prime lMinister after
receiving the support of nearly all major political parties. General Prem's
new government, formed on M4arch 14, 1980, includes leaders from the political
parties which supported him. On Uarch 28, 1980, General Prem announced his
government's policies on a number of issues including economic and social
development. These policies place high and immediate priority on accelera-
ting rural development, raising rural incomes and on measures to improve
health and education. Particular etaphasis is given to generating more jobs
and it is expected that a rural public works program similar to the 1975/76
Tambon Program will be a major element in this strategy.  The Government
also intends to exert efforts to contain inflation and a more gradual
/1  Parts I and TI are substantially the same as given in the President's
Report for the National Agricultural Research Project (P-2737-TH, dated
N4overaber 6, 1980) which was approved on November 25, 1980.



adjustment of energy prices is foreseen at the same time that domestic
energy resources are being developed. Reforms in monetary and fiscal policy
and efforts to improve the trade balance through improved export performance
are also called for. As discussed below, these reforms are critical to
increasing resource mobilization (especially in the public sector) and
reducing the current account deficit.
Past Trends and Recent Changes
4.        Thailand-s economic performance since 1960 has been good.  The
average annual growth of real GDP from 1960 to 1979 was 7.9%, or about 4.8%
per capita. Real agricultural growth of nearly 5% was a leading factor
sustaining this expansion. The cultivated area increased by about 4% a year,
water control was improved, irrigation was expanded and the cultivation of
relatively new crops, including maize, cassava, kenaf, sugar and rubber, grew
rapidly. Agriculture has also been a major contributor to export growth. As
a share of GDP, domestic savings fluctuated between 19% and 24%, and total
investment between 20% and 27%. The high level of private investment
contributed to a real industrial growth of 10% per year since 1970. All this
was achieved with a limited inflow of external resources and, until recently,
the debt service gap remained quite low.
5.        The large growth in incomes over the last two decades has, however,
not been equitably distributed throughout the country, and at present there
are very significant regional differentials in incomes and access to
economic and social infrastructure. The regions are very different in terms
of topography, climate, soils, urbanization, etc., and present quite
distinct problems for future development. The Central Region, including
Bangkok, has the highest per capita income and is better served by roads,
telecommunications, schools, public health and other services than the other
three regions, the North, Northeast and South. Within the regions also
there is considerable variation: farmers who have diversified into cash
crops have generally enjoyed substantial growth in real incomes while the
incomes of those who have been unable or unwilling to shift out of
subsistence rice culture have stagnated. Recent research has shown that
inappropriate cropping patterns and agricultural techniques are major
factors in much of the rural poverty. This is most conspicuously the case
of the rainfed rice farmers in the Northeast and North. Since there is a
well-functioning labor market, the low incomes of this large group have
tended to depress unskilled wages throughout the economy.
6.        Real concern over the plight of the poor is growing, and observable
improvements in rural living standards are being seen as a major factor in
promoting political stability. In the past several years the Government has
initiated efforts to increase the flow of public resources to the poor rural
areas, including the Tambon Program of direct transfers to villages in 1976,
the drought relief program in 1977, the flood relief program in 1073, the
new village development program in 1979 and the rural employment program in



- 3 -
1980. These programs have been designed to produce quick and tangible
political as well as economic results, but considerably more attention and
resources need to be devoted to rural development if these programs are to
have lasting impact. While the absorptive capacity in rural areas has
increased since the Tambon Program of 1975-76, there is some concern about
the efficacy of crash programs in view of the resource constraints facing
the budget and the limitations of implementation capacity at various levels
of government.
7.        Thailand-s balance of payments position and its trade prospects
are now less favorable than in the early 1970s. The overall balance of
payments, which recorded surpluses in 1973 and 1974, has since been running
deficits, averaging almost $500 million annually since 1977. In 1978, the
current account deficit reached $1.1 billion, or 5% of GDP, and increased in
1979 to $2.1 billion, or about 8% of GDP. The most significant changes in
the external environment have been the rapid increase in the price of
imported energy, the decline in net transfer and service payments to
Thailand and the conjunction of inflation and recession throughout the
world.
8.        To contain and finance the balance of payments deficit, the Govern-
ment has taken a number of measures to date. It has increased significantly
its borrowing from traditional sources and the Eurodollar market, and at the
beginning of 1980 raised interest rate ceilings by 3 percentage points in
order to encourage domestic savings and to curtail the flight of capital
abroad. Foreign exchange reserves have also been used extensively.
9.        The Government has also adjusted domestic prices to slow the
growth of imports. In March 1978, tariffs on non-essential imports were
raised, along with excise taxes on a number of items, notably gasoline.
Petroleum product prices were raised in January 1979, July 1979 and February
1980, for a cumulative increase of about 100% for gasoline. Currently, the
latter-s price is the equivalent of $1.80 per gallon. After a proposed
power tariff increase of about 55% was rejected in November 1979, a lesser
tariff increase of about 38% was finally implemented in February 1980 and
another increase of 26% was implemented on October 1. A further increase is
expected to be implemented on January 1, 1981.
Development Prospects and Constraints
10.       Tn the coming decade, many of the positive features which helped
sustain rapid economic growth over the past two decades will continue to
contribute to future growth. These factors include a relatively equitable
distribution of rural land; responsiveness of Thai farmers to improved
technology; provision of infrastructure by the Government; and the dynamism of
the private sector in both industry and agriculture. Also, major gains have



been made in family planning in recent years, slowing the annual rate of
population growth from about 3% during the 1960s to an estimated 2.2% in 1979.
The target for 1981 is 2.1%.
11.       Some less favorable domestic factors are emerging, however.  As a
result of very rapid population growth in the 1960s, projected labor force
growth of 3% p.a. necessitates a high rate of job creation. Past growth has
benefited households unevenly and created further income disparities that
could threaten the social cohesion of the country.  At the same time,
additional fertile land, which has supported the growth of agricultural
production and exports in the past, is becoming increasingly scarce. In view
of these factors, continued reliance on the past pattern of development may
lead to a deceleration of agricultural and overall growth in the next
decade; persistently large balance-of-payments deficits; higher rates of
unemployment or underemployment; and stagnating or declining real incomes of
the poorer segments of the population, especially in rural areas and among
unskilled workers. These internal factors are complicated by the external
factors of rapid oil price increases and recession in developed countries.
The oil price increase alone will add about $1.0 billion to the 1980 import
bill, even with no increase in import volume, and the current account
deficit is estimated to be at least 9% of GDP. The unfavorable external
situation will require major domestic adjustments and it is unlikely that
the overall growth rate will exceed about 6% in the coming years.
12.       Thailand must shift its economy from a pattern of growth based on
the extension of land under cultivation and on import-substituting industries
to one based on increasingly intensive use of land and on industries producing
for domestic and export markets under competitive conditions. At the same
time it must reduce its current account deficit and increase public savings.
Effective policies and programs will be necessary to ensure that economic
growth is maintained and income disparities reduced, or at least not widened,
during this period of transition. In the past, the Government's role has
focused primarily on short-term economic management and the provision of basic
economic and social services. In order to achieve a relatively smooth
transition, the Government will now have to undertake more coordinated
long-term policies and play a more active role in development management.
13.       Agriculture will continue to be the dominant sector since it
directly generates 30% of GDP, provides about 60% of total exports, and
employs 75% of the labor force. However, future growth of the sector will
require more intensive utilization of cultivated areas, continued diversifica-
tion of crops, improved cropping patterns and farming practices, and easier
access to agricultural inputs including credit. All of these imply an
increased government role in rural development. But while growth in the
agricultural sector may be expected to remain fairly rapid for some time to
come, the burden of sustaining future growth will have to shift progressively
to the industrial sector. Industry, construction and services will have to
provide an increasing share of employment for the growing labor force. In
1979, industrial production accounted for about one-fourth of GDP and about



one-third of total exports. Manufactured output, which accounted for 90% of
industrial production, achieved an export growth of 24% in 1979, almost
double the growth rate of total exports. While continued growth of
manufactured exports is essential, the large domestic market also offers
opportunities for a balanced industrial growth based on production of
consumer goods, agricultural inputs and processing of agricultural outputs
for urban consumption. Our policy dialogue will concentrate on efforts to
reduce price distortions, increase availability of credit, and eliminate
impediments to efficient production for domestic and foreign markets so that
the dynamic private sector can realize its potential for spurring growth and
creating jobs.
14.       The principal objectives of the Government's Fourth Plan (1977-81)
are to achieve 7% real growth, equitable distribution of income, reduction in
the rate of population growth, faster generation of employment opportunities
and balanced regional development. Public sector development expenditures
were to double in real terms in relation to the Third Plan. However, the
Plan addresses sectoral issues and strategies only in broad terms, and con-
crete policies and programs to meet the Plan's economic and social objectives
are not spelled out in any detail. The Government has now embarked on the
preparation of the Fifth Plan (1982-86) and agencies of the Government are
undertaking a number of studies to help ensure that the Fifth Plan provides
an unambiguous basis for the allocation of resources and the formulation of
development policies and programs. These studies may help identify possible
areas of Bank lending for structural adjustment.
Financing Requirements
15.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate of
economic and social progress will necessitate a steady increase in public
expenditures over the next few years. This will require much greater efforts
to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the past. Government
domestic revenue as a percentage of GDP (13.5% for 1975-79) is low compared to
other developing countries at similar levels of development due to low tax
rates, high exemptions and a somewhat below-average rate of compliance. With
expenditures rising, the overall budgetary deficit in fiscal year 1979/80 is
estimated at above $1.0 billion, or over 4% of GDP. The Government has
achieved a modest improvement in resource mobilization through revision of the
tax structure and improved collections. Much greater efforts will be needed
in the future if the reliance on foreign financing - and thereby the deficit
on the current account of the balance of payments - is to be reduced in
relation to the size of the economy.
16.       During the coming years, the demand for external resources will
increase. Despite an average real growth of exports of over 10% and increased
domestic production of primary energy, the projected rise in the price of
imports - led by the price of petroleum - implies that large trade and
current account deficits are expected to persist through the mid-1980s. It
is estimated that a 6% overall growth rate can he maintained and the current
account deficit reduced to 4-5% of GDP by 1985 if appropriate policies are



followed, including greater efforts in implementing energy saving measures,
promoting agricultural growth and exports, reducing distortions and excessive
protection in industry, promoting more labor-intensive exports, and post-
poning major capital intensive investments until the economv can afford them.
This implies an average current deficit of $3 billion per year in 1980-85,
which will require very large amounts of external borrowing, totalling about
$18 billion net over the period.
17.       Official donors, particularly Japan and the development banks, have
been expanding their programs to meet a part of Thailand-s growing resource
requirements. The rest has been financed in the Eurodollar market and bond
markets. The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy Committee to
coordinate and approve all foreign borrowing by the public sector. The Bank
of Thailand is establishing procedures for recording private borrowing
abroad in order to keep track of total foreign debt. Current estimates of
Thailand's external borrowing requirements exceed those discussed at the
last Consultative Group meeting, and the need for continued concessional aid
is perhaps now more acute. The next meeting of the Consultative Group will
be held on February 3 and 4, 1981. In addition, external agencies, including
the Bank Group, have in recent years increasingly concentrated project
lending to Thailand in some sectors that have high social benefits, but low
foreign exchange savings or earnings. To achieve the level of external
resource transfer that is now required, it is necessary, in selected
projects where the foreign exchange component is low, to finance some local
currency expenditures. Program and structural adjustment lending should
also be considered.
18.       By 1985, net disbursements will more than double in current terms
for both public and publicly guaranteed borrowing and private borrowing. The
debt service ratio on public debt (4.6% in 1979) will exceed 10% by 1985, but
should decline thereafter. Assuming a significant level of concessional
assistance, the debt service ratio on total public and private civilian
borrowing (currently about 15%) will rise to over 20% before declining.
Given the diversification of Thai commodity exports and the rapid expansion of
manufactured exports, these debt service requirements should be sustainable if
rapid export growth continues, more domestic resources are mobilized, and
economic stability is maintained.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
19.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of September 30, 1980, had received 57 IBRD loans amounting to
about $1,850 million, net of cancellations. The sectoral distribution of
these loans has been as follows: $364 million for transportation; $316 mil-
lion for irrigation; $650 million for power/energy and rural electrification
(including $66 million for a dual purpose power and irrigation project);
$153 million for telecommunications; $163 million for agricultural and rural
development; $109 million for urban development; $52 million for education;
and $42 million for industry. Thailand has also received six IDA credits:
two credits totalling $54.5 million for education; one credit of $25.0 million
for rural development; two credits totalling $12.5 million for irrigation



improvement; and one credit of $33.1 million for a population project.  In
general, Bank Group-financed projects have been carried out satisfactorily
and in accordance with expectations.  Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as well as brief notes on the
execution of ongoing projects as of September 30, 1980.
20.       Over the past five years, the Bank has shifted its lending in
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastruc-
ture projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY74) to a
program which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's efforts
to reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since FY75,
investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications and
industry have accounted for only about 50% of Bank Group lending and more
than half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically
designed to benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending
to the agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for
about 35% of lending operations since FY75. The design of projects in
this sector has also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to
a more balanced program covering irrigation (including land development and
support services to the farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to
assist farmers outside the central flood plain (rubber replanting, live-
stock, agricultural extension, and rural development). Projects in the
social sectors which prior to FY75 were limited to three in education account-
ing for 6% of the program, have both diversified and grown. In recent years
education, population and low-income housing projects have accounted for
about 15% of the program.
21.       The findings of the 1978 Basic Economic Report and a more recent
economic mission verify the appropriateness of the shift mentioned above,
and underscore the need to move even further in designing programs which
help the rural population, particularly those farmers in rainfed areas who
have been largely bypassed by recent economic growth. In the agricultural
sector, therefore, the Bank is redoubling its efforts to develop an approach
which will help to lift the rainfed farmers out of a subsistence existence.
A combination of education, agricultural research and extension, credit and
improved infrastructure is foreseen. However, the major problem is the
absence so far of a viable package for the poorest and most remote farmers.
Expansion and improvement of irrigation systems will continue, with increased
emphasis on reaching those farmers with irrigation potential in the northern,
northeastern and southern regions. The program of transportation, electrifi-
cation, water supply and telecommunications projects will also continue to
have a rural focus. A key element of the strategy outlined in the Basic
Economic Report is the creation of jobs and stimulation of increased
economic activity outside of Bangkok.  The bulk of the Bank Group's urban
and industrial lending will, therefore, be directed to projects which
enhance the attractiveness of regional cities as service centers for the
agricultural economy of those regions. Selected projects in Bangkok will be



- 8 -
aimed at strengthening agencies providing essential services to the urban
population and the development of low cost, replicable programs to meet
the demands of the urban sector, particularly the urban poor, without divert-
ing scarce resources from other high-priority development needs.
22.       The Bank's strategy of placing an increasing share of its program
into projects alleviating poverty and promoting rural development will be
difficult to execute without considerable technical assistance toward institu-
tional development and project preparation. The Bank's regional mission in
Bangkok will continue to play a vital role in helping to identify and prepare
such projects. Promoting overall growth also has a high priority in Thailand
and is a necessary element in the poverty alleviation strategy. The resource
requirements for infrastructure development and for developing energy and
its domestic primary sources are large, and the Bank is concentrating its
remaining funds in projects where it can have a catalytic role in effecting
policy changes and mobilizing other resources. The Bank is also expanding
its support of the industrial sector through its economic and sector work as
well as selected projects in order to help promote industrial policies which
promote exports and favor more labor-intensive and dispersed activities.
23.       Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted
to $584.3 million, as of December 31, 1979, representing about 22% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). The Bank Group's share of public
debt service payments in 1979 was 23.1%, or 7.2% of total debt service
including private debt. This is not excessive in view of Thailand's modest
overall public external debt (9.7% of GDP in 1979). In addition, although
the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over the next five
years, the Bank Group-s share is below 30% of total public external debt as
Thailand has diversified its borrowing program. The Bank Group's share in
total debt outstanding is expected to fall below 20%, and its share of total
debt service would not exceed 10%.
24.       As of September 30, 1980, IFC had made commitments totalling about
$84 million in nine projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been
primarily in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed
at mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller enter-
prises. Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been
enhanced by expanding private sector investment activity; consultations with
the Government have identified several areas where IFC-s assistance may be
needed. These areas include very large and complex projects such as a
proposed soda ash project to serve the ASEAN community; projects in the
petroleum and downstream petrochemical sector; and projects in the agricul-
tural sector. In addition, IFC expects to continue to help traditional
manufacturing projects and to assist in financial institutions and money
market developments.



- 9 -
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND POTASH SECTORS
The Industrial Sector in Thailand
25.       Sector Performance.  The industrial sector (manufacturing, mining
and construction) is the second largest in Thailand after agriculture. In
1979, it accounted for about 27% of GDP, 28% of total investment and 8% of
total employment. Manufacturing alone accounted for 90% of industrial
production. In 1960, the industrial sector had accounted for less than 12%
of GDP and was oriented almost entirely towards producing consumer goods for
the domestic market. With substantial opportunities for import substitution
and an environment which encouraged investments, manufacturing output grew
at an average annual rate of around 11% (in real terms) between 1970 and
1979. As the easier import-substitution opportunities were exhausted,
investment in the 1970s shifted towards export industries. Between 1970 and
1978, manufactured exports increased from about $144 million to $1,700 mil-
lion, or from about 20% to 35% of total exports. The most important manufac-
turing industries are petroleum refining, food processing (including sugar
refining), cement, beverages, tobacco, textiles and wearing apparel,
foot-wear, rubber and transport equipment.
26.       Several additional factors contributed to the rapid growth of the
industrial sector during the last two decades. Thailand has had savings and
investment rates higher than other developing countries of comparable size
and income per capita. The average share of domestic savings and investments
in GDP increased from 21% in 1960 to 27% in 1979. Domestic as well as
foreign investment have also benefited from political stability and from the
maintenance of a generally favorable investment climate. Furthertmore, up to
the oil crisis of 1973, Thailand had a more open trade system than mLost
countries at similar levels of economic development with relatively low
tariffs and few quantitative import restrictions. Although after 1973 - due
to the increases in oil prices and balance of payments deterioration - the
Government increasingly resorted to industrial protection, Thailand still
remains an open economy. The openness of the Thai economy is reflected in the
high share of foreign trade in GDP. In 1970 and 1979, the import share of
GDP averaged 21% and 26% respectively.
27.       Industrial Financing.  The rapid development of the industrial
sector as described above took place in Thailand in spite of a scarcity of
medium- and long-term credit. The main sources of industrial financing are
commercial banks, investment banks, suppliers credits and the Industrial
Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT). Commercial and investment banks are
the largest institutional sources of industrial financing, but their lending
is through renewable short-term overdrafts and is limited to well-established



- 10 -
borrowers. Since 1973, IFCT has played an increasingly significant role in
extending m,edium and long-term loans to private enterprises.  Its develop-
ment strategy includes further decentralization of industrial investments
and providing financing for projects sponsored by less well established
investors, which cannot attract commercial bank financing.
28.        Industrial Concentration in Bangkok.  At the end of 1979, the
industrial sector in Thailand eaployed over 1.6 million persons or about 8%
of a total labor force estimated at about 19 million. About 60% of this
industrial labor force is concentrated in the Bangkok area, with the manu-
facturing industries there generating about 80% of the total manufacturing
value added. Most industries, and especially the larger modern plants, have
gravitated to Bangkok because of market concentration, proximity to the
Government administrative center, superior infrastructure, and easy access to
suppliers and customers via port, air, and railway facilities. At the same
time, Bangkok is manifesting significant congestion, communication and utility
breakdown, pollution and inadequate housing. The Governmenit, therefore, has
initiated measures to remedy the situation and decentralize industry, partly
with Bank assistance.  Such measures include the establislhment of industrial
estates in the country-s interior (Loan No. 1492 of September 1977), the
execution of subsidiary ports outside Bangkok, improvemenats in transport,
power and water supply; and the provision of tax and credit incentives
granted to regional industrial projects.  The implementation of a potash
project in the Northeast of the country will help in inducing geographical
dispersions of industrial activity away from Bangkok. In fact, the potash
project would be located in one of the lowest income regions of the country.
The full-scale project is expected to be the first stage of the implemeTl-
tation of other related industrial projects in the region, including the
extraction of magnesium, boron, and bromine.
29.        Government Investmuent Policy in the Sector.  The Goveraument½s
policy in the sector is to accelerate the rate of industrialization of the
country, in particular, export-oriented, domestic-resource-based and
energy-producing industries. For this purpose, it has taken measures to
encourage a large participation of foreign and dofaestic capital. Currently,
significant investment incentives, such as tax and duty exemptions, are
provided by the Board of Investments, and the Small Industry Finance Office.
The Government itself intends to participate selectively in large industrial
projects that it considers of national priority and which are unlikely to be
carried out by the private sector without Government participation. Several
major investment projects are included in the Government-s industrial
development prograrmi to be carried out by the private or Government sectors.
They include possible potash fertilizer plants in the Northeast; develop-
ment of lignite mining in the north, rock salt nining in the Northieast, and
zinc mining and smelting; nitrogenous fertilizer production; a possible
project to produce fuel alcohol from molasses and tapioca; pulp and paper
production; expansion of the country½s refinery capacity; and separation of
the heavy fractions of natural gas for the production of liquid petroleur
gas and, possibly, ethylene.



- 11 -
30.        The Government is aware that the above investment program will
involve sustantial capital resources.  In order to avoid the execution of
high-cost industrial projects that may entail ineLficient use of Thailand-s
scarce capital, the Government intends to subject these projects to a
rigorous economic evaluation using projected world market prices of the
relevant products and inputs.  The Bank is providing assistance to the
Petroleum Authority of Thailand and the Government in studying and reviewing
some of these projects.
The World Potash Industry
31.        Potash is one of the three main plant nutrients - nitrogen,
phosphorous and potash - used extensively to increase agricultural produc-
tion and productivity.  It is obtained from natural ore or brine deposits
that exist on a commercial scale in only a limited number of locations in
the world.  In 1979, world production of potash reached about 45 million
metric tons (in terms of potassium chloride (KCI) equivalent), of which 92%
or about 41 million metric tons (mt) was used as fertilizer, and the
remaining 8% for the production of detergents, ceramics, textiles, dyes and
drugs. Six main potash producers account for 93% of total world supply:
USSR (30%), Canada (26%), German Democratic Republic (12%), Federal Republic
of Germany (10%), the USA (8%), and France (7%). The West European
producers joined together in the 1920s to form a potash syndicate, which
initially exerted strong influence on the potash market.  Since the early
1960s, however, its influence has been declining in part due to the
emergence of Canada as the second largest producer and world½s largest
exporter of potash.  Canada is also the only country (other than USSR) that
can significantly increase production in the future and therefore its role
as market leader is expected to become more significant.
32.       World potash fertilizer consumption increased from 13 million mt of
KCI in 1959 to 35 million mt in 1973 and to 43 million mt in 1979, an average
growth rate of 6.2% per year.  About 50% of all potash fertilizer is consumed
in North America and Western Europe, 38% in the centrally planned economies
of Eastern Europe and 12% in the developing countries.  The low utilization
of potash in developing countries is partly due to the fact that these
countries generally have preferred the use of nitrogen since potash gives
less immediate yield results, particularly at low levels of application.
However, over the long term, such relatively low potash application could
adversely affect agricultural production as a rising potash deficit will
eventually limit the efficiency of nitrogen and phosphate applications. Most
recent data indicate that potash consumption is now growing at a faster rate
in developing countries (9% p.a.) than in developed economies (2% p.a.) or
in centrally planned economies (5% p.a.).
33.        A summary of the projected world supply (including firm projects
only) and demand balances for potash fertilizer is given in the following
table:



- 12 -
World Potash Fertilizer Supply and Demand Balances
(in millions of nt of KC1 equivalent)
1973   1979   1981   1983   1985    1987    1989
-- Actual--   ----------- Projected ------------
Actual/estimated supply        35.3   41.3   45.7   52.1   55.0/a  55.0/a  55.0/a
Consumption/estimated
demand                      34.6   42.6   46.7   51.0   55.7    60.8    66.0
Balance    0.7   (1.3)  (1.0)   1.1   (0.7)   (5.8)  (11.0)
/a  On the basis of known projects only.
34.       As the above table shows, it is anticipated that during the next
decade world potash consumption will increase at a rate of about 4.5% per
year to 66 million mt per year (mtpy) of KCl equivalent in 1989. Therefore,
during the 1980s, about 2 million to 3 million ttpy of KC1 of additional
production, or two to three large-scale potash projects per year, will be
required to keep pace with demand growth.  Part of the capacity needs during
the early 1980s can be taet by expansions of existing potash facilites but
after the inid-1980s a large portion of new capacity will need to be met by
new mines. There is very limited scope for increased potash production in
Western Europe and the USA, where potash production is expected to decline in
the future as many of their major potash mines are being depleted. Therefore,
new production would have to come principally from Canada and the USSR which
are the two countries with large potential reserves capable of sustaining
significant growth. Nevertheless, given the recent supply constraints with
USSR production and the limited possibilities for significant immediate
expansion of supply elsewhere, a tight demand/supply situation can be
expected to continue during the 1980s, which should keep prices in real-terms
at the relatively high levels existing at present. The price of potash (FOB,
Vancouver) increased fromn about $50 per -at in 1977 to $115 per mt in
mid-1980.
Prospects for Thai Potash Production
35.       Accordingly, the world potash demand/supply situation during the
1980s should be favorable for prospective new producers. Thailand has the
added advantage of being located in the raiddle of a major consuming area that
includes South Korea and ASEAN countries (which in 1979 consumed 0.9 million
mtpy of KCI), India (1.2 million tatpy), Japan (1.1 million mtyp), China (0.8
million mtpy), and Australia/New Zealand (0.5 rnillion atpy), a total of 4.5
million mtpy of KC1. Except for a relatively small production in China,



- 13 -
these countries currently do not have local production facilities; their
potash requirements are inet mainly by Canada, followed by the Federal Republic
of Germany and the German Democratic Republic. By 1985, the consumption of
these countries is expected to reach 5.7 million mtpy of KC1.  Since an
economic potash project is likely to have a capacity of about 1.0 million
mtpy of KC1, the East Asia consumption could accommodate several large-scale
potash projects in the region. A project in Thailand designed to supply
domestic requirements and the regional market, would also enjoy a significant
competitive transportation advantage. Total production and transport cost
of Canadian potash at a port in East Asia is around $195 per mnt, of which
$75 per int is transportation cost. Since, for Thailand, the total transpor-
tation cost to the major regional markets has been estimnated at about $25
per mnt, Thailand could incur substantially higher production costs compared
to the current producers and still remain competitive in the area.
36.        On the basis of available information, it is anticipated that if
the project is technically feasible, a full-scale potash project in Thailand
would commence production in the late 1980s with a capacity of about 1.0
million mtpy of KCI from carnallite raw materials located at Bamnet Narong,
in the Northeast of the country. About 95% of the project's output would
initially be for exports; given Thailand's location near major markets,
there are favorable prospects for an economically viable project. The
fullscale project is roughly estimated to cost $350 million in 1980 dollars
(excluding working capital and interest during construction). The ownership
and financing plan for the full-scale project will only be determined during
the final stages of the feasibility study or shortly thereafter.  The
Government has not yet decided onl the extent of its participation, since it
wishes to attract substantial private sector capital for the investment.
However, it is expected that, at the minimum, Government will participate in
the infrastructure and support investments.  Given the large size of the
investments envisaged and the reasonable prospects that a potash project
will emerge, the Government believes that further studies to establish the
viability of the project are justified. These studies constitute the main
component of the proposed project.



- 14 -
PART IV: THE PROJECT
History
37.       During the drilling of boreholes for groundwater exploration in
the 1950s, thick beds of rock salt were discovered by the Thai authorities
in the Northeast of Thailand. Since 1970, several drilling programs, with a
total of 110 boreholes, were carried out by the Ministry of Industry's
Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) on the salt deposits. These programs
established the existence of three salt-bearing beds overlain with and
separated by claystones covering an area of 50,000 sq km.  About 33,000 sq
km of this area is contained in the Khorat basin. The remaining 17,000 sq
km lies in the Udon-Nakhon basin (see map IBRD 15327). Potash minerals in
Thailand occur principally in the form of carnallite (KC1.MgCl2.6H20) and,
in lesser amounts as sylvinite (KCI mixed with NaC1), on top of the lowest
rock salt bed, at depths of 90 to 500 m.
38.       Reconnaissance drillings carried out by DMR, consisting of 63
boreholes in the Khorat and Udon-Nakhon basins at 40 to 50 kilometer
spacings, show carnallite as the most abundant potash mineral, intercepted
in more than half of the boreholes drilled in the basins. High grade
carnallite (13-14% K20) was identified at Bamnet Narong and Udon Thani.
Subsequent development drilling of 33 boreholes in a 30 sq km area at
Bamnet Narong have established the existence of a significant carnallite
bed, in sufficient amounts that could economically justify its exploitation.
Only minor scattered mineralization of sylvinite - which is a preferred
mineral for potash production - was identified at Wanon Niwat, Khon Kaen,
Sri Chiengmai, and Bamnet Narong. Further closely spaced drillings were
carried out at the latter three locations, but were not successful in
establishing that an extension of the sylvinite previously intercepted does
exist in a continuous bed. Additional drillings in these and other
locations are necessary to establish whether sylvinite does exist in
economically exploitable forms and amounts.
39.       With the assistance of consultants and on the basis of the develop-
ment drilling work carried out at Bamnet Narong (see Map IBRD 15328) it
has been established that the amount of "drilled indicated" potash minerals
in the form of carnallite is at least 230 million mt of carnallite grading
13.6% K20.  Minable reserves are estimated at 135 million mt of carnallite.
This amount of material is capable of sustaining a commercial-scale potash
fertilizer operation of 1.0 million mtpy of KCI at 60% K20, for 15 years.
Additional potential reserves exist in the project area.  Given the
important size of these deposits, coupled with the favorable prospects for
potash markets and prices, the Government has decided to proceed with
a detailed feasibility study, including engineering design work, and in late
1978 approached the Bank for possible financing. The project was appraised
in July 1980. Negotiations were held in Bangkok in December 1980. The
Government delegation was led by Dr. Prabhas Chakkapak, Director-General
of DMR.



- 15 -
Description
40.       The project consists of: (a) the execution of a feasibility
study for development of a potash project; (b) provision of financial and
legal services to assist the Government in negotiations with private
investors in the potash sector; and (c) assistance to the Government in the
formulation of broad potash development policies. Supplementary project
data are given in Annex III.
41.        The main objectives of the feasibility study are:
(a) To determine the technical, financial and economic viability of a
potash project in Thailand based on the carnallite deposits already
known at Bamnet Narong. The feasibility study would also establish
the economic potential of sylvinite deposits that may be identified
by ongoing exploration activities being conducted by DMR during
1980-81. Sufficient work would be carried out on the alternative
ores to establish the relative merits of projects based on either
of the two potash minerals, the possible interrelationships among
these projects - if more than one project is recommended - and the
optimal timing for their execution.
(b) To provide a comprehensive and documented compilation of all
detailed facts concerning the project which could be presented to
potential equity participants and sources of finance.
(c) To present an appropriate plan of exploitation and production, with
engineering design, equipment lists, and manpower levels to a degree
of detail sufficient for an accurate prediction of operating levels,
costs and benefits.
(d) To recommend measures to ensure a rational, long-term development
of the sector.
42.        The feasibility study will contain several special features.
First, it will evaluate the viability of a project with a capacity of 1.0
million mtpy KC1; the sensitivity to alternative capacities for the project
including 600,000 mtpy of KCI, 800,000 mtpy KC1, and 1.2 million mtpy KCI
will also be investigated in order to determine the optimal project size.
Second, due to difficult geological characteristics of the deposits, the
feasibility study will include the sinking of an exploration shaft, to a
depth of about 200 meters, and trial mining operations to establish the
technical and economic viability of the mining operations and the optimal
mine design. Third, the location of the exploration shaft and the selection
of other facilities to be provided under the project would take into account
the possibility that those facilities could be used, upon project completion,
for the mining of rock salt in the area covered by the project. Fourth, the
study will include the execution of carnallite upgrading and pilot processing
tests in order to establish the optitnum refinery process and permit the



- 16 -
preparation of preliminary basic design and engineering work which would
enable the elaboration of capital and operating costs for the final project,
with sufficient accuracy to permit a subsequent investment decision. Last,
the study would include an analysis of the impact of the project on the
regional economy of the Northeast, including direct and indirect social and
economic benefits.
43.       The feasibility study will be executed in phases to ensure that
the costlier parts of the study are carried out only after previous work has
established the desirability of proceeding further. The first phase would
comprise the determination of the availability of raw materials, sinking of
an exploration shaft and initiation of trial mining operations, execution of
potash refinery tests, and preliminary review of infrastructure, utility and
environmental requirements. During this first phase, there will be several
interim reviews at key stages to determine courses of future action to
ensure the achievment of the objectives of the studies. In particular, the
execution of the shaft and trial mining operations will be carried out after
the consultants have reviewed all drilling information and the plan for
trial mining has been approved by DMR and the Bank (Section 3.05 of the
draft Loan Agreement). The second phase of the study would include the
execution of market studies, completion of trial mining investigations,
development of appropriate mining methods, execution of preliminary design
and engineering for the mine and refinery, preparation of detailed capital
cost estimates for the plant, infrastructure and utility facilities, studies
on operational and marketing arrangements and execution of economic and
financial analyses. The detailed terms of reference for the feasibility
study are given in Annex IV. The second phase of the project would proceed
only if justified by the results of Phase One (para. 50). After the
completion of the first phase of the study, the consultants will prepare an
interim report discussing the technical viability of the mining and
processing operations. The Government intends to use this report to
approach private companies that may be interested in participating in the
conclusion of the study and in subsequent projects.
44.       Since the Government is currently being approached by private
companies on possible development of sylvinite deposits in other areas of
the country, the project will include the provision of financial and legal
services to assist the Government in analyzing investment proposals and
in negotiating with potential investors in the potash sector.
Project Cost and Financing
45.       The total financing required for the engineering and technical
assistance project is estimated at $10.4 million, of which $8.9 million
represents the foreign exchange costs. Phase One is estimated to cost
$6.0 million and Phase Two, $4.4 million. This estimate includes 10% for
physical and 10% for price contingencies on the basis of annual inflation
rates of 10.5% in 1980, 9% in 1981 and 8% in 1982.  The proposed Bank loan
of $8.9 million will cover the estimated foreign exchange component of the
project. The Government will finance the remaining costs of $1.5 million.



- 17 -
46.       The cost of the study, including trial mining and engineering,
reflects the technical complexities of the project arising from the
geological features of the deposits. An estimated 185 man-months of foreign
consultants and 230 man-months of local staff will be required. The average
cost of foreign engineering and technical consultancy services, including
per diem and reimbursable costs is estimated at $10,000 per man-month; the
average cost of local personnel and operators is about $400 per man-month.
The cost of consultants is considered reasonable in light of the specialized
work to be undertaken.
Project Execution, Procurement and Disbursements
47.       The feasibility study will be executed by qualified international
consultants whose selection, qualifications, experience, terms of reference
and terms and conditions of employment will be satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The terms of reference for
the study are satisfactory and have been approved by the Bank. The
Government expects to issue in early January 1981 "Requests for Proposals"
to several qualified engineering firms for carrying out the study. The
consultants- proposals are expected in March 1981 and the evaluation of
proposals will take place in March/April 1981, with the contract with the
consiultant to be signed in May 1981. The feasibility study is expected to
commence in May 1981 and be completed in October 1982. The implementation
schedule for the various components of the study is given in Annex V.
Signature of the contract for carrying out the feasibility study is a
condition of loan effectiveness (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
48.       The proposed organizational arrangement for the execution of the
study is shown in Annex VI. The Potash Committee (consisting of representa-
tives of the Ministry of Industry including DMR, the National Economic and
Social Development Board, Board of Investment, IFCT, Budget Bureau, and the
Mlines Organization), already in existence under the chairmanship of the DMR,
will have the overall responsibility for the policy aspects related to the
execution of the study. DMR personnel have already been assigned, on a
full-time basis, to a Project Unit in the DMR to provide day-to-day moni-
toring and supervision of the execution of the study. Its responsibilities
are to provide quality and scheduling control to ensure that the study will
is carried out in accordance with the agreed terms of reference and that the
interim reviews, studies and other works are completed on time.  The Project
Unit is headed by a senior mining engineer who also serves as secretary to
the Potash Committee. The Unit's staff includes technically qualified
professionals but they are relatively inexperienced in the potash industry
and in the execution of studies of this nature. For this reason, the Unit
will be assisted by a team of technical advisors, who will include
international specialists in potash geology, mining engineering, rock
mechanics and chemical engineering. The appointment of a suitably qualified
mining engineer, who will be leader of the team of technical advisors, is a
condition of loan effectiveness (Section 5.01(b) of the Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
49.        The feasibility study and engineering design work will be undertaken
by the consultants referred to in paragraph 47 above under a fixed-price
turnkey contract, which will include all studies, shaft and mining equipment
and field works specified in the terms of reference.  DMR will carry out all
required geophysical surveys and core drillings, as well as the construction
of the rock mechanics laboratory building as part of the local support for
the study. The technical advisors and the legal and financial experts
(paragraph 44) will be employed under separate unit-price contracts. The
equipment and instrumentation required for underground monitoring and rock
mechanic laboratory tests will be procured by the DMR under international
competitive bidding, except for a limited amount of small and proprietary
items (together totalling less than $500,000) which will be procured under
limited international tendering or direct purchase as appropriate. The
feasibility study consultants will provide procurement services for the
purchase of this instrumentation and equipment. Adequate utilities and
transport facilities exist in the project areas to meet the relatively small
needs of the project.
50.       Disbursements from the Bank loan of $8.9 million will be made
against 100% of the total cost of (a) the feasibility and engineering study;
(b) the monitoring and laboratory equipment; (c) the technical advisors; and
(d) legal and financial counsel. The Government contribution of $1.5 million
will finance the total cost of geophysical surveys and core drillings,
construction of the building for the rock mechanics laboratory and various
miscellaneous supporting studies. The proposed loan is expected to be fully
disbursed by March 1983 (see Annex VII). A special condition of disbursement
for the second plhase of the study would be the agreement between the Kingdom
of Thailand and the Bank that the results of Phase One justify proceeding to
Phase Two (paragraph 3(b) of Schedule 1 of draft Loan Agreement). To enable
DMR to proceed with procurement of equipment and to employ technical
advisors and financial and legal counsel, retroactive financing of up to
$100,000 for expenditures made after December 1, 1980 is recommended
(paragraph 3(a) of Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Justification and Risks
51.        On the basis of the positive results from the substantial core
drillings carried out up to now and the favorable prospects for potash
markets and prices, the Government believes that a feasible potash project
can be developed in Thailand. However, before substantial investments are
undertaken, the Government wishes to minimize risks by carrying out a full
feasibility study to establish the viability of the project, especially
regarding carnallite mining and processing.  Since Thailand has limited
expertise in the potash industry, the Government believes that the Bank's
worldwide experience in this field will be useful both to help ensure that
the feasibility study will be properly designed and executed and to assist
the Government in formulating broad potash industry development policies, as
a follow-up to earlier Bank assistance in the review of the overall fertilizer
sector in the country. In this regard, in addition to providing financing



- 19 -
for the feasibility study, the proposed project would provide sectoral
assistance in: (a) reviewing the different studies being carried out for
the overall developaent of the potash deposits in the country to ensure
rational and coordinated development of the sector; and (b) the long-term
planning of investments in the potash sector. This assistance would ensure
that the timing, size, location, overall Government investments and
development of ancillary facilities and infrastructure, for different
potential potash projects would be carried out in a way that would maximize
the economic and social benefits of such projects to the country over the
long term.
52.       If the feasibility study leads to a potash project, it would yield
significant benefits to the economy. First, it would help to industrialize
a relatively underdeveloped part of the country, generating direct and
indirect benefits to the region through provision of infrastructure,
services, and related employment opportunities. It may also lead to other
industrial projects utilizing the mineral by-products of the potash
project, including boron, magnesium, and bromine. Second, at projected
potash prices, a one million mtpy project would generate ahout $150 million
per year of revenues (in constant 1980 dollars), most of which would be in
foreign excnange, thereby helping to improve the country's balance of
payments. Third, it would have a positive impact on the Government-s fiscal
situation, since it would generate significant revenues through royalties
and tax payments. And, fourth, it would have a beneficial impact on the
country's agricultural sector by providing a stable supply of an important
agricultural input at economic prices. Given these potential benefits, the
Government considers the execution of the feasibility study to be of high
priority.
53.       The major risk facing the project is that, if the feasibility
study were to conclude that the final project is not technically and
economically viable, the investments made in the feasibility study would not
be recovered. This risk has been minimized by initiating the study only
after a substantial amount of core drillings has been completed and an econo-
mically sized potash deposit has been proven.  In order to rainimize the risk
of potential waste, the engineering project will be carried out in two
phases, with the second phase executed only if the results of the first
phase are satisfactory. Furthermore, the investments to be executed in the
first phase (principally shaft sinking and trial mining) will not be wasted
in any event, since both the shaft and the mining equipment could be used
for the mining of rock salt in the project area, for which there is already
a significant market.  Finally, several of the investments included in the
project, such as the provision of underground nionitoring and rock mechanics
equipment are not limited in their use to the potash project as these
facilities can be used for other mining activities under consideration by
the Government.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special features of the Loan Agreement are
referred to in the text and listed in Annex III. Special conditions of loan
effectiveness would be: (a) signature of the contract for carrying out the
feasibility study; and (b) the appointment of a suitably qualified
mining engineer to head the technical advisory team (Section 5.01 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
January 5, 1981



-21 -                                                     ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                                            -  HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            514.0
AGRICULTURAL      179.6                                 HOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb EST1IATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (U $)                  I00.0        210.0     490.0                 894.8                   1384.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       64.0       247.0      327.0                842.4                   1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      26.4         35.7      44.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 12.5          13.2      14.1                  39.1                    63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        68.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         103.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. DI.                        51.0        69.0       88.0                 376.1                     28.1
PER SQ. 1M. AGRICULTURAL LAND    204.0        251.0      251.0               2350.4                     81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.7        46.2       43.4                 40.4                     41.4
15-64 YRS.                          52.6        50.8      53.6                  56.2                     54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.7         3.0        3.0                  3.4                      3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.8         3.0        2.7                   2.4                      2.7
URBAN                               4.6         3.7        3.6                  4.1                      4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.0         44.0      32.0                  28.7                     34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      17.0         12.0       8.0                   7.9                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..          3.2       2.2                   1.9                      2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       203.0k   644.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          27.4       40.0                  39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
ISDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           92.0       100.0      134.0                116.9                    106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENtS)                    96.0       103.0      105. O/d             108.9                    107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           43.0        50.0       49.01d               60.3                     65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        10.0        15.0       14.0/d                18.8                    33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      15.0          9.0       6.0                   5.3                      8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    51.0         57.0       61.0                 63.0                     63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..        86.O0e    68.0                  52.8                     66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        17.0       22.0                 42.4                     65.9
URBAN                                ..          ..       49.0                 62.1                     80.4
RURAL                                ..           ..      12.0                 29.7                     44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        17.0       40.0                 52.8                     62.3
URBAN                                ..        65.0       58.0                 71.1                     79.4
RURAL                                ..         8.0       36.0                 42.4                     29.6
POPULATION PER PNYSICIAN           7800.0      8420.0    8169.0                4120.1                   1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      4900.0      3340.0    3542.0                2213.6                   1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1351.0/f     880.0     816.0                 819.4                    480.3
URBAN                                ..       350.0
RURAL                                ..      1136.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        31.0       33.0                 28.8
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.5/L       5.8        5.5
URBAN                               5.3/f       5.9        5.5
RURAL                               5. 6/f      5.8       55
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..       2.4
URBAN                                ..           ..       2.2
RURAL                                ..           ..       2.4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..        63.0/        .
RIRAl                                ..        13.0



-22-                                                          ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE   GES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAI.                 83.0         81.0       83.0                   98.6                      99.7
MALE                  88.0         85.0       86.0                    99.2                     101.0
FEMALE                79.0          77.0      79.0                    97.7                      99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   13.0         17.0      27.0                    55.5                      34.4
MALE                   16.0         20.0      28.0                    60.7                      33.5
FEAALE                 10.0         14.0      20.0                    49.9                      34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)    19.0            24.0       13.0                    13.7                      38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMWRY                             36.0          35.0      30.0                    34.6                      30.5
SECONDARY                           20.0          16.0      21.0                    28.5                      14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          68.0         79.0       84.0                    85.8                      76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            2.0          5.0        6.4                    9.0                      43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            6.0         78.0     131.0                   118.9                     245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
OPULATION                            2.3           7.0      18.0                    39.4                      84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY CENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    11.0         24.0          -                      *                      63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..              ..        1.7                     4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13529.2         16658.8   20985.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    48.3          47.3      47.0                    36.8                      22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               83.7          79.9      77.0                    51.9                      37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    4.4          6.0       8.0                    21.9                      Z3.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  51.3         46.6       45.6                    39.1                     31.5
MALE                                   52.7         49.3       48.6                    48.5                      48.9
FEMALE                                 49.8         43.9       42.6                    29.6                      14.0
ECONOMIIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9          1.1        1.0                     1.1                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST S PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.8/h          23.8/i    14.0.Lj.
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.9/h         49.7Li    42.2j/
1OUEST 20 PERCENIT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.21h          6.1/i      7.6.                            
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.9/h          15.9/i    19.1/1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      159.0
RURAI                                  ..           ..      106.0                  192.1                     190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  *-           *-      115.0                     ..                     474.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..      110.D                  182.5                     332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION hELOI1 ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PFRCENT)
ITRRAN                                 ..           ..       15.D
RURAL                                  ..           ..       34.                    33.2
Not a-;ailable
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
anong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 a-d 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, betweon 1974 and 1978.
/c   Go,7ernnent program only; /d 1976; /e 1964-65; /f 1962; /p Percent of population it Bangkok metropolitan
area; lh 1962-63; /i 1968; /i Preliminary data for 1975-76; d-e to tlack of data on national basis, the
.ethodology for aggregating the av.ailable region-l  data overstates incoes of low income groups and under-
states incomes of higher income grou1ps.  Thus, this data is not suitable for any analytical comparisons.
April, 1930



- 2 3-                                                                              ANNEX I
i3FNTIN   F SOfCIAL INTDICATORS                                                             Page    3   of          5
No~tes   Although the data ace dea   from -uar-e  gsa lyjdged the most  ochaoitsttve gad relable, it should asa he cated that they may eat he lacer-
aatlocally compara.ble hess   f theflook of stdtadiarledlydfistitass aa  ...oepts used by diff-erecautlsIcoieta   h  data.  The data are,mae
thbol..s, usful to dgariha ardorso  ueagottad, jodirate trends, as   h-aracteie tertaie oior dif'ere...s  tot                      c Iatis.
The eafsresae g8roupt,are (1) tin_same oaoatry grou  of the sabJ-c   oar   a     )esac    ru  ec   aeco   iheaeaetom ths  heootygtp
of th.ojo   cnr   aop   a   CaIa   upo   f   aoto"gop  ahers "MIddle Io00mg Nortch Afrto  sed Kiddle cast" Is chases hst e  o f scroage
so -utral off .talts.    I   h         refrec  gop data oh, a    cgsace _papultto  -eigted  ret_tmm   mesa  foe each todiost-r ga  s.hoos ly ohms at
leas t hal f of the coosftri   in a grouP has data far that iMdiosto_    Siaus the  -sep.ag  of -otacise amog the laicat-rs depeads cc the avilohlitm sE
data aed Is oat .sif.rm. totios must he eerateed 10 relatIng averages of ass ted  -so- so soother.  These.. avrages are  rily usefulI to . copacting the vlu
of too indicator at a ties amoa  rho -totty ad esfere.ce groups.
LgDARIauA (thousuod cq.k..)                                                                   eouotoecrctuo   ouatrOcdatd bY  -ume  as pructuouna php-
Total - Total tuf.ot. urea  -riinte  laud area   d inland o- -rs                              -tlaqaified  eo -amdloal sohol a tuotoe ity love).
AurioLtuo    - isti-ate of ogrcultarul ares used tmporartly Or permucetly                  t'opulat_o  pa  Nuesiag fess-Fpulatlo  dicided hy ounhr of p-tcibolg
for crps, yoatu-o., sache  a   kitroben gardeos or to lie  fallos; 1977 data.              male and female grad oats  uss  p-atlal aorta. ad ...sictactcus.
ISP  ff CPITA(ii)  -GNP Pea capita etiao   toceo uhtpies   a-                            ubnkndttl   iie  h   hi  apct P'somberIof hseitta1 heda
-1la-e  by aute  oar            th ucbd I0 hand luck Atlas     1 (l 7i-   basIs); lOOf1,      available II public and private gaura1 eud aeprlalieed hospitalsaMr
10)0, uod 107  dar.                                                                           h-hltst        aters.  losy.Pttat  see  atabliaheatte  peems"tl'y  rtffsd
by  t least aoo  pbyslciau.  Eaabtsbmie..ts psoridiag petelpil  cotola
ENERGY CONSUMOPTION fIR CAPITA: - Aucoa1 ooouapti- of oturoia1 ...ergy focal                    oars are sot dladed.  Rural hcspitsls. hawver, tactade bea-lt  sa   mod-1s
gd ilgt.' pecroeam1   eaara  gus gad hydra-, auls        1n getemlaloIere   et permanetly staffed by e physitfaut (but by a medica   saistnt
toirly) Ia kilogram   of cool eqI        etPar capita; 19601. 1970. go  1978                  ou.e  midif , etc.) chick of fee in-patiot u--ndatiso sad previds 
dora.                                                                 l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~imited range of medIcal facilities.  Ps   tatluticl purposes urban huai
cola iIncud  WHIO. prlaciPul asono-I usd ape-iolisd hoepitauls,od crat
POPUIATION AND VITAL STATISNTICS                                                                h...            1o    11h.itI    d-i.   M-..t    ...
Tucal P-platios, Mid-cau  failliot -.         so.uy.          91.17,ud1)                     disin   a  osig  Ned - Total ebres  of admissions to or disohurnee
dato.                                                                                       fran boapitslc dividmd by the camber of bado.
Irbau Puoulatiun I .rerct a               Rtul  -fO. of urban to total population;
ditfereut dfinitiou   of urbaaea  m pI aff et cmparability of data                     HeOcSINi
amass.. cutries; 1960, 1971  an  1978 das.tAeaeSo   ffusil   saosec  asbl)-ttl.oh                                                                                  a   el
fptlt.iton frojeotl...                                                                        A household ..onaitt  of a aeoc of 1ndfivdasla teis share livinsquctr
Populuciaa Ia year 2hOf - Currant popalaauou projeottaus are based oo 1980                  ad"their maiceas   A boge.dar or ledger may or may sot hn 1anluded In
1totl popolatioo Bytae,  ua  se  so  their mortality and fertll ity  :t:t5t              the bou..uhold for at.tistical purposes.
yrojoIotoo Paramter  f or sortaity crat.  compriteo   he   orasssIvrf   ae of  crhaspr  oa-ttl,uran   ndrual-A,saesm
lagS life  ea.pcttan..y at birth inora...Ig   itti coun.try's par capIta ituros          he   fprsa   e  ru   oal  ra,sa   ua   ccpe   onaona
loyal, anfemle life  -npact-nY stabjleiniu  at 77.5 yasra.  'The para-                   deelliogs, nepsatiosly.  D-a11iag  octludaeone-pa-eu.tstruoturouad
_t_tc   for fertilIty rate also bale there levels utosiug decline Ia                     uai idParts
fetltyacriog to  toelvladys  family plasiug pncfIre.unoe                       Access tcleaoctyfsomcOf dealia)- 1tta, urban.od eura  -
tact -octry Na than atulgod se  o  rns t1tIp'ins oo-hiuatiaofe no-tulitl                 lonvetloas  deliags with slacceinity 'in liv'ingqatesu  protge
and tatility treads far pro)ootio   pupssIf otal., urban, and canal deellings reaPn-i-ly.
Oitoar   uulco   - Iv   statIonay popula tion chars iu so growth  ituos
ths hioth cats Is equal to the death rata, ga  ales the age  trooture e-             EDUCATION
main I.u...tant.  Til Is I c.hiavod only afto   f-rtlllcy rates dec1ias co             ad_luatd lnrolla...t Ratios
tAr rapla_amnt level of o-it  ct reproduction rate, when oath ganertioc                  Primary school -2ttal, mule au- saa-Ioattl   aead female-G..
ofrmorapl.os. Irsi   aol.Tscaucr   nuIiasieotarlna f altage                                                     hn.i primary lsvs  aspreana    f resatsine
eacleacd 00 tia basis of rho proocted ohutttreiattc- of the  ouain                        piaysho-s   ouains   omlyious   hl  a   gd6l
to tio Year 2000, an  rho race of derltne of fertility rtar  to  -splacs-                  yeas ht  ajse   o   ifrn   egnus   rrs                        ait   o
art level.                                                           coan~~~~~~~~~~~~y.tria but d.th  siorau  adffrastlon erath en  mapr y   dsoned  If portn
larstartoa... r ouato   Is reached - Tin year ohen stutiovay yapulatiot                       sic  sm  pupils see below or uho- the aff leial schal age.
sloe tat hoen reactd.                                                                     Oec...farv school - tntal. male And feml-1 o. ptdu   hve   eodr
Pa   n   o       id-yea  populutic  pcr square kilnntor (100beureof                   poiegees.voial,eraortraintg i-etrustone. tor pupilb
for aricutucallandosualy of 12 to 17 pears of age;  --crapsndeu   coarsen     see ea-aly
Pea sq. he. aertoultural land - Coap-td as abovefr                   r                  oola1ded.
only.                                                                                    Vooroa   nslmn   reet  fernay   - Voca tional  iItctrtiosa
Populatioc hAgSNtruotor  (percen.t) - thildrsn  (i-lb ysara), working-age fIl-                  inclde  ehi"a', Aeduatreitl  Pr othe  prgam   iobve                    odpa
64 ysars). au  reired (65 yasra a d ovr) as peroenrgee of mid-year popu-                      dearly ccra  departasats af e-ardayh sittos
latio; lO6i,t197,aOdM 1978 dat.                                                            Focal-  sttoh- ratio - primary, sa  socndarn - Total students eveolled In
Populttos iro"th PRs (percen t) -  totl - Aoaua1 groath betas of tomaI mid-                    prmr      Ms  escondury levels dividsd by .,sbnrs on tu...c  ist  L  tie
year PpopsrI..o for 19560-ho  1960-7, and 19701if.                                            corc..spandinglva
Populatio  ICueth Rts (perusa) - urban - Anulgroath rates of ustbg  pspu-                     AdaIt literacy ruts Ip. erret) - Ltfrare adults (ublo to read uv  -itte)
lati... for 1950-60, 1960-70, sod 19)0-78.                                                    asperrentage of total adult populatioa agnd 10 yearn sad over.
Irud ie caseh R~ oaer thoussad) - A-Iau live birtho per thsuuaod at aid-yeas
poultin;INI,197, aba 197f data                                                    C0NlfSUfPTTON
Irudo le-t  Rate (pee thoassad)9-,Aanoal deahs per thousand of  id-psar                     Paene   as(e  huadpplta)- Passengar cars copiemtue
popultion; 1960, 197f, and 1978 dat.                                                        rr   sru   asts   ih   aet;soue suaos   res  sod
hoe,normal -opr-du-tIv- period tf ate  opacisa-ces   ..ese. .g.-.P.....o fee-             ia      anve   (per thousad coultior) - All types of ..s.eiveve for eadi
cility  raas; usualy fins-pose avarages ead.a  Ic 19601, 1975, un.177.budosata so gesera1 public per thousand of psp.1stian; ecluda unlit-
Family PIooiaAcet-'-. Arotuu1 itbhugnds  - A.nuo1 uamher of accptors                          cease d Ie.oetiera In vuatries sa  go yasre eArs cegitrration of radio eel
of bhlcch-curul d-rtoa rodr c  aupice  of national  f saly plsoing pragras.                 waItm Iffact; data Oar o-eat yese  may nat he copurble amosmoa
famIly Pluoiu-Msr paon   t  ared0mv  - Porce..tage of maciod                                  cutri- abolished liceas... IS
wuso  of chilfd-hearing a   (15-i  Year) who  be ieth-coetro1 devices tO                  TV Rscai-rse  fuse thsaacj    ppuaton   - TV  ar ..in-es far bhn..dtaen  to
oil maciod nones IO as  ae gouot.p.                                                         gonral public per thou...ad papulutiaa; euc1ude aVlicsd TV receivers
FlOD AND NUTRITION                                                                              to c-atrisa cad In years whenrgftsto   f                ..ste  e  I  eff fet.
I r C.   2 (1969-11-10   IM.. of P.r N-aspa.er Cinoaton Ipr chou.sau.dg ecultoon  .-S- O                          h   nct  ritals
Indon of PFdFrdatu  paPCetaflh-7=IP   -Iis  o   oecpia  aue                                   tion oIf"dily nnrlitrstden e"  dfined asapriodica  puR'
peoductiuo of al  od  osodtc ffroduasioc euolod.e  seed andfeed sod                         licatiun devotd poimarily to rec.urdian gen.c.  seas   It Is ounaidnead
is o  calndaryearbasi,  Cooudi inscove  crimaygos(.g   oucc                         to be "daily" if it appears at ..et f sue times a cash.
inotoud ofsgr)whichar  edbeadcnaattiet    r. fs n                                          iasoAna  Aoedaacr tents. tee ysac-Nsaa.d 00 cbs aabeo  of
tea ac  -colded),  Aggregate produofton of each cnuutry Is based on                         ticketscl  dai       rtepa. itlding admissions to drive-in olnoas
natloce  avrage produoce pIo  usight; 1961-6), 1970, an  1978 data.._i:    d   '   hy.
Par cariva supply of  cloie  (eret at reoair-eta) - Compared fromsdmbieuis
enooIgy eqivlo1ot of net food suppIes. available  it country per ca pita             LABOR FORCE
per du..Availabl sIuppl ies  _umpriso dossic  prdcinieports less                       Tof.ta1llbor Porte (theus..nda) - Econaically active-       ron  inuludiag
copoico, and cIee  iso apr...io. a  suple I        rai.    nia.fed   ees                 amd forces and uneplnyod hot srludiag housnoives,,  tudeots,io
quatte   sdinfo    rcsio,adlso  isdistribution.  RequiIr-                                 Dsfiairtnai.v..      u   oars  oct noti.u.yrila; 100  1971so
esua  oasI    ei-satd Op PAP b.ase_d.0 iasuta    au  fur om                  t ar-        17   aa
vIty ac    od   cons ,Iidering  evr a talreperatror, body sibu  age                    femal  (pecen) -Fon          ao   oc   spr tg   fttllhufre
and a-  ditrriburion of pplto,  u              oing 10 peros..t foe caste at                ou.lar  F(pebvufsan)P,                           'gIt
househld loal; 161-il  191, and 1077 dsta.                                            I       ..tet  - Labor' 0 esinfri tn  sery, hutig 
,.r  ~~ it!d..P,   pja~~~~~~~   P  t I.        f ~fishing asp-nrtnsgn of total lehuc foocs; 1960, 1970 an  1978da.
Parosit   suplpop      poeiyfrasoafdy)-Pr rincntntofpr  eptyIdutr  ferna)-  abrfoceismsin,oosrunin.ssoecura
uq  supycr       odprdy    e   upyo   odi   eirda  shv.   f                                n  elsrrilsy, t. wen   Sen   gae  pesransage of total laho  focu; 1960.
qtirometa for.1 all ..uatoies eatabl:lsad by USDA provide 8 ormiim                       19170"en  1978g darn.
al,I no  ofi   ra   f totl  cuei  par day aad 20 grams ofaia                   Mo         stccts   aefaca)-ttl   ae   n   eae-Peiiaio0
puls  pcuo, of ohioh 10 gramo uhoud he acimalP rteic..  Testuad-                         at- iviy   arn atecompted as. to!ta I    In - end female-lbu   fec  as
dr  ace lower thes those of 75 pc-s  of toto1 prosu  and  20 gram   of                   pr..tg.ftt1    1   MfIl   -.-i--                                     .
aimal prtoin us0 -vrage fsr ohs wrld, Pepopasd by FAO in rho Thiod                       1960, 7970, an  1975 dotu.  Those are ILl's partiolpation  rates reflecting
Word Pod  urvy;1961-60, 1970 and 1977 data..
Per ruout  rev otisso rely fom animaland colee-fPen lin uuPpp1  of food d__    a.fe-ee  .r Icar f the pIoaito            .a  loaf time treed.  A fea eatS-
etie  irom  autul Iod pulses In gram  Par day; 1961-6 5. 1970 ga  1977 data.              mae rn from national. sorces.
Child isuos 1-4) Mortality Rain (ccc thousad) - casuaI deans. pe  thousan.d Is        Econoi OeodarRts     ai   fppoatsaI                          5  o   isd
age group 1-A4yeara, to  hbildeno In this age group; foe mutt develpItg  os-                r  thetota  labor forc..
onesdat derdived from life rubles; 1960, 1970 aud 1977 data.                           IcNCiOMISTRIBNITION
Pereotseof  riateIncme(bo    n csh   d  ind  -Received by richest
APAITH                                                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ peroent, richest 70p-ecet, poorest 20Peret  an  poornt 4I percen.t
lito RaPoctancy at gir1th(yas    A- Avrag  nmber of paurn of lifr rominlaf                    of hoas-ho1do.
on  icti; 1960, 197  sa  1970 dar.
of sge par thi.....d live births.                                  dEstimated Absolos Povetoy I-on   neL-   (150pr  utr) - anio  sad rural-
Across to Oaf a ea   prcn   focaait                   otl   ra. nlus                          Absolute poverty Inrua  loya  Is thrt i-osm  level halos cthIc  e1 alols
Sabsor of Psuplo  ttl   -eI,an   ua) etch reasusble Ic..n. to eel 0                         ntitslyaeuedetpsnsmolnn-food requirem.ent  is nt
hse  sply (inoludos trceted surface eaters or outesated hoaoaocotamiuatsd              a tfoodabIo. .1 dq..de   l.t.t.   .
outesuhs that freo  protactod borshclss, sprngs, and ...utoery sells)as                   tu edalinPosyItnenvlfRcccpt)-shasdrrl-
pretgsof the te reupor-i-  spolsrlto-.  In an orbs. r areospobloc                     Rurl.,   urv  poet   ncn                I   s-r Ied of avraerpe  ..Pirt.
fuou_alo or ersd         -- octd nuO aur  tht  0                                bseofo      os   a e  PeronltooP fthe  -ootry.  Inst- leve  is  eibdlantef            ua
oun ldeeu    cn    ihnraonl  acs   fcs   os.I   u    areas                               evel  ith udjuetneet f or highs. out of living Is oubatens
ronsil   ces   old imply that rho h...-mif. ar machorn of ti -hohbld            ltEetdPplto.eaAslt   aee1Icn   ee   pvst     sa
do out have tn span  a diapvop-rtio...ta part of the day (a fotchia6 the                    got d ros  - Porct afppLain(rs and rural) eh. are "bsout uc"
fastly'. awter  n.o. . d-                                                                       ____
rurl -Susec  f pupl   (totl   ra,adrrl   evdb   ort
disposal as -P-rr-roa  of their esepeci-epuoRus    -urcto  di.-                                                            E-uuoic ad Social DLut  Diviia
roa  say " nlos. ho-aicl    a   iPoo...  ulo-tb or nithot treatment,                                                 Et_ooic hAlysia an  Frojectis... Psrtn t
olf bousarer  an   et-ue   ynrobcssseso   h   s   r                                    .April, i oeo
Pit privIes an  sletlr tualco



- 24-
ANNEX I
Paee 4 of 5
OcoIlc *W95MT000661
M9   i   250 SM prlIO.
I    .*..   *..2I*  oodo*2  8,605.9   20~~~~~~..2,    ........   ".1109.5    15. 139,9    it.,595.42   20,0692.9   29, 250.47   7.4I         7.8         0.2I         4.0        [09.8
f'~I. r. s..  Of 244              2..          2.9      -3947.      -941.1I     I,ll, 1,2 9   . 2 364.   -2 .044.0   -1'962 .6                             ~.
*                    2,059.9    2.99.9    3,099.2       8000,9        0, in. 3,629              ,000        . 0462.                      8.           .            0.        29.
S.  'spos,.. . Jo..        .2.493.2   .2,240.      -1.9011.0   .0SG.50.     -4.255.9      5074          . -4.044.0 422 -.0.        9.1          a. 90                    6.4          0.
4   bp..*2.-,d2o62*8 ~to, TOT  -2,009.9:  -4,24.0.    .3,300.4      303.        -4,049.9    -.4.9190   -4,039.2    .4.082.3             .    4.2   0.4           .0          9.9         22.0
I0 -  MT                          220.0       072.9       399.0       9I.          P0.9P   -2.205.#   -2.801.3   -.4099.32.
T. :os  p.oo..p S0 .4302,I    6,007.0   l2.709,5   2258.4                           2,0.          4224.8    24,000.0   20,42.               .4          4.          0.           6.2          70.4
4.  *,sl.,n. I ,.42*58  2.440,0    2,400.9    2,~~~~~ ~~~~02.  4,322.0z  4,092       ,072.    0,022.2       :.20,6    .0                 8..79                     .8         22.2
II   0~~~~...824  .41fl6. .42.88.4 ~ ~ ~ 354                                .9
f.r TOT                         2.92        250.        405.         ,33.         ,0.          ,0.         ,229.      0.4,             .            .4         7994                      4
222(MP            u'482    sI        40,02.9    4,043.3   24,290.3   19,158.9    21,"I1.1    24. 220.2   29,590.9   59.728,0              23.3         24.9        20.0          23.0
9.--oto  0.28.0
00* I4..2,*4.              0.391       9.340       0.3"I       0.291        0.271        0.200       0.458       0.229
2.   Sd  I2,                             920        022         0. :209     09.330       9.39         0.404       0.0         0.3
7.  o9o*6901                                      007         0.5          .3           .3           .3           0.03      0:.03
2.  2.90*0 9*1*. 1*0..        07.70~~~11  07.2        00.40      100.121      S2.0         204.401     289.92      228.42          7.          II.,?         .2.
4.      Po*. - .s d.10.2 8810,* .20                            0.22        0.2          0.20.,                             26. 
4  .p8*2 /090.214                                            20.28        0.2"8       90.28
D. 5   4o1-d*8,,2/O-                                    0,07    19.28    19.24               0.2
IC.O..N.  o/                                     5.0         0.0         6.05         04
3.  002c2,p                                                      0.409       3..                      230          0                               0         0.
2.  2840.2*4                                       4,0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.? 0.2  30.0        2.          40                            .40        30.
C * --                            83.0        23~~ ~ ~~~~~            ~~~~~       ~~~~~.96  20.0  25.0  2.  00 2.
0.  6440.50*4 0*02.8*                 2.9         2.2~~~~~~~~~~~~'a  $O 54  2.         0.0        26.2         2.0.                          6
4.  0*2.2 ~~~~~~b21r  590802.2        0.5 ~~~~~~~ 4.7s      5o.9           0.9           .5         0.0         5.510.
3. 9.12.*5   7898  0   21920.                                      222.0      02o.0        422.4        633.4       924.     2,22.
T50   0.  298.2*.    S26.3                                       6.07       2.           290         2.S94                   2.
LA9*2.1   blt    ZI* 4..4
C. ft.1  U  65.0     [tz                                                  A    ..... .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4009.09
*2 4Urt8,22  080*2 7* W)2*85.: .                                      "T
fl-082.02..



-    25-                                                     nWn  r
IALAUCE OF PAYhFNTS. F"TVt"AL AS5SANCt,  0.81 AND C9M2lTY0THI908!
(Current 00$ slillions)
Arteul                                                Projected
1973     1974      1975     1976      1977      1978li    1979       1980       1985       1990
Summary of Su1-ner of Pnone.ita
Export. (lorlovdlog YFS)                             2,084.7  3,025.4  2,796.5  1,490.6  4,029.3   4,930.7   6,300.0   7,660.0  12,835.0  24,967.7
Import. (orn.dlung NFS)                              2,258.3  3,353.2  3,407.3  3,911.9  5,091.8   5,919.2   8,10n.0   9, 460.0  13,904.5  24,650.4
Re.ource baLance                                      -I73.6   -327.8   -609.8   -421.3 -1,064.4    -989.2  -1,840.0   1,800.0  -1,069.5           317.3
Ret factor servce 1-cose                               -20.8      -0.7       5.4    -41.6    -72.5    -154.5    -210.0   -300.0    -925.0  -1.412.5
Net Interest -  ymeots                                  7.0     36.0     69.0      26.1     -:4.0     -69.4    -100.0    -210.0    -766.9  -1.170.7
Of tcich on publIc 1 * LT loans                    -25.1    -20.1    -34.5    -44.3    -64.5    -101.8    -133.1    -17465    -487.1    -82.0
Dlrect Irveutoect Income                             -28.0    -37.0    -64.0    -66.1    -68.5        -72.9      -75.5     -80.0    -192.5    -290.0
Workers oeslttancea (tot)                               0.O      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.        0.0       22.9      24.5       34.4       48.2
Current traoo.eru (cot)                                 145.5    241.0      80.1     22.8      39.3      40.4       60.0      80.0      100.0      110.0
lao1rc  on correct ccount                              -48.9    -87.5   -605.3  -440.0 -1,097.6  -1,103.4  -1.990.0  -2,020.0  -1,894.5    -985.1
Private direct investment                               67.0    135.6      85.5      79.1    106.1       50.0       60.0      75.0      276.3     487.0
Grants & grant-like fons                                  0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
PublOc M & LT Io s
Disburs-ete                                           69.0      95.9    149.2    241.7    362.6       739.5      900.0   1,010.8   1,960.4   2,697.6
Amcrtl:atlon                                         -28.9    -32.3    -38.7    -43.4    -87.8        -90.7    -164.1    -222.1    -620.1  -1,092.7
Net disbcraoe,cta                                     38.2      63.5    110.5    198.3    274.8       648.8     735.9      788.7   1,340.3   1,604.9
Other M 6 LT loat.
Disbcuoae etu                                         179.9    326.2    299.6    279.7    311.8       501.3     900.0   1,150.0   1,393.0       462.2
A-ortiacti-o                                        -223.1   -197.2   -235.1   -245.9   -264.2    -467.2   -520.0    -600.0    -850.6  -1.167.0
Net dluhcr em  tt                                    -44.2    129.3      64.5      33.8     47.6       34.1      380.0     550.0      542.4   -705.6
Iae of IYF roac.r.  a                                     0.0      0.0      0.0      77.1       1.8     181.4     200.0      200.0      -30.0       0.5
Short-troo   ceptrci  tr os-rtiou                        62.0     55.5    127.3    136.2    256.2        94.0     120.0      250.0      180.1     232.6
Capitol truoa.r.itoa NEI                                 57.9     96.3     77.2    -11.4    136.2    -371.9         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Change iDrenorvee (- - Oucresas)                      -113.0   -392.7    140.1    -73.0    275.0        476.9     494.1      176.3    -414.8    4654.5
Net forig;n e-chooge rrasrve  /b
(end of period)                                    1,306.0  1.599.0  1,406.0  1,444.0  1,135.8       659.9      166.0       10.0   2,634.5   5,320.9
Grat and Lo.n Cotmoitmects
Ofttit1l granto                                          0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0 0        0 0
ntetl pcblltc M & LT louts                              87.1    436.5    223.4         372.3    633.0   1,220.0
IoD                                                  15.0    142.0      95.0    158.0    137.8       256.0
IDA                                                   25.0       7.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       33.1
Other maltiluteral                                     6.4      77.2     62.7      92.1     47.0      194.7
Covsrnmenra                                           24.0    200.3      47.7      22.2    106.4      312.0
Of tnhicb crotrally planted economies Ic             0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Suppliers                                              0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0
fiusucial intittultioo                                16.7       9.7     18.0    100.0    341.9       423.7
Other N 4 LT lo-ns (uher. avslsl1)                      178.9    415.9    392.5    360.2    348.9       531.8
Mtoorandun Ite-s
Gteat elment of total  -ummit.ests (1)                44.600   31.400   16.700   11.500   10.200    14.869
a-Sage ttrerent (Z)                                    0.044    0.057    0.076    0.081    0.080        0.072
Avera   mtUrity (year-)                               29.100   23.800   23.500   18.500   14.000    12.832
,edium-  od tone-loe, lebt (Dishbored On1y)
Ictul debt ootnton.icg (DOD and of period)             903.9  1,160.7  1,345.6  1,606.8  1,931.9   2,691.0
Ixcluding urditb-rued                                1,182.4  1.770.0  2,009.5  2,404.0  3,145.9   4,594.3
Public debt uryico-                                    -54.9    -60.4    -73.2    -87.7   -152.3    -202.9
Interest                                               -25.1    -28.1    -34.5    -44.3    -64.5    -100.7
Other M 6 LT drbt -orel-o                             -255.8   -266.8   -314.5   -245.9   -338.3    -590.8
lotal debt service                                    -310.7   -327.2   -387.7   -333.6   -490.6    -796.7
Debt Burdrn (:)
Debt sarvire ratio                                      14.9      10.8     13.9       9.6    12.2        16.1
Oebt s_ovce rotlo /d                                     16.2     I2.0     16.2      11.5    13.9        17.6
Debt  -ev-e/15P                                           2.9      2.5      2.7       2.0     2.7         3.6
Public drbt -er-ucr/Gevero.. nt revenue                  4.3       2.5      3.5       3.7     4.4         6.3
Term (T)
Interest ct total T0D/total dihburasen-ts                5.7       5.5      5.6      5.4       5.7        5.6
Tutal debt  -rv-ce/Gov-ror.t t een                      12.4      11.0     11.9      10.7     12.0       19.6
Deneudeny FL tlfos foe 8 & LI leSt (T)
Grose dlaboraeoeMta /tTpoet    t (Including NYS)        11.0      12.6     12.9      13.3     10.9       21.0
Rot tr-foter/Inport-  (loIrbding N0S)                   -2.8       2.8      1.9      4.8       2.0       10.2
Nlt tro.u.eo/grnos disb.roee..tt                       -25.3      22.5     13.6     36.0      18.4       48.7
EsDo'sre (X)
818tD dabarueeett/ros- total dtahnraeertt               14.8      8.0       9.1      8.3      12.0       9.3
Bark Group dlebure.e.. ts/gr.  total dibsrs.e.eta    16.8        8.3       9.7      9.5      13.6       9.9
UIRD DOD/total DOl                                      24.2     20.8      20.0     18.6      17.9      20.2
-  as  Ct...p DOD/tot l DOD                             24.2      20.9     20.4     19.2      18.9      21.3
199D 45bt servlto/total d,bt rercie                      9.0       8.5      8.3     10.9       9.8       7.8
amk CGrc,p debt a-rvce/tocal  -reit                      8.0      8.5       8.3     10.9       9.8       7.8
Entsrtml Dbt (Dlsb.r.ed only)                         Oustcandine 12/31/78
(Caroant US0  sIll .mS.                               Amonmt        I
101R                                                   434.9      24.5
hook Group                                             459.3      25.8
Othbr multtlatorl                                       257.5     14 .5
Coveocasots                                             549.2     30.9
O  tich centrally ploooed o-oo-oml-e  /c              0.0       0.0
SoppIlera                                                9.0       0.5
PI.osoI'l inectrtt.os                                   502.1     28.2
hoods                                                     0.0      0.0
TItel public 0 4 LT debt                              1,777.1    100.0
Other M f LT drbt                                       913.9     51.4
Intel public debt (Including undlobcroed)            3,680.4    207.1
Total M a LT debt (Includiog  nodtqbcreedl           4,594.3    258.5
f Prellil-ary.
/b  Net fo-elgr a.sets: US$ nq:,iv1leet of Lion 31.                                                                                         Octebar, 1979
/c  Includes 13F4 countrIes, People. Republic of Chi.o, North Korea, North yst V     a
/d  Includ1 og oct direct tIveot-n t Iocoe.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND /a
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1980)
Loan or                                                                   Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                    Less Cancellations
Number Year          Borrower                          Purpose       Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
Twenty-six loans and one credit fully disbursed                     471.67    5.49         -
822   1972   Kingdom of Thailand )                    Education       15.40       -    1.61
864   1972   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom             37.00        -    0.41
369   1973   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education           -   19.50    1.19
461   1974   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation          -    7.00    0.33
977   1974   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                           Power          75.00        -    2.74
992   1974   Industrial Finance Corporation
Thailand                              Industry       11.70        -    0.20
1149  1975   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    95.00         -   60.97
1198  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Rural Dev.    21.00(TW)   -    8.05
1199  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Livestock       5.0O(TW)   -    2.37
1243  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Rubber          50.00       -   21.77
1253  1976   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom            26.00        -    3.90
1271  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education      31.00        -   16.96
1327  1976   Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand                              Industry       25.00        -    4.40
1393  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                      Agriculture   28.00         -   16.79
1468  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    55.00         -   30.93
1485  1977   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                           Power          50.00        -   16.45
1492  1977   Industrial Estates Authority of
Thailand                              Industry        4.80        -    1.86
767   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Population          -   33.10/b 32.43
1519  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Transport.   110.00         -   48.60
1527  1978   Provincial Electricity Authority         Rural Elect.  25.00         -   18.89
1556  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Housing          8.60       -    7.19
S-10  1978   Natural Gas Organization of
Thailand                              Natural Gas    4.90         -    0.09
1620  1978   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom            90.00        -   90.00
1630  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    17.50         -   17.02
1638  1979   Kingdom of Thailand                      Urban           16.00       -   13.60
1662  1979   State Railway of Thailand                Railways        16.70       -   15.05
1690  1979   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                           Power          80.00        -   77.68



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
Loan or                                                                  Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                   Less Cancellations
Number   Year          Borrower                    Purpose            Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
913       1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Education               -    35.00      34.88
929       1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Agriculture             -    25.00      24.72
1752      1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Ag. Extension        40.00    -         39.77
1770      1979   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand          Power                80.00               80.00
1773      1980   Petroleum Authority of          Natural Gas
Thailand                       Pipeline          107.00/d            107.00
1787      1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Irrigation           80.00              80.00
1816      1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Ag. Credit           19.00    -         19.00
1852      1980   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand        Power                72.00    -          72.00
1870      1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Housing              29.00    -         29.00
1889      1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Inland Waterways   53.00                53.00
Total                                                         1,850.22  125.09  1,050.85
of which has been repaid                                      231.27    0.36
Total now outstanding                                         1,618.95  124.73
Amount sold /c                        68.63
of which has been repaid            46.61                      22.02
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                1,596.93  124.73
Total undisbursed                                               957.30   93.55
/a This summary includes Bank Group loans/credits signed as of September 30, 1980.
/b Of which $3.1 million is Norway grant participation.
/c Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.
T7T Includes refinancing of Loan S-10-TH ($4.9 million).



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1980)
Amounts ($ million)
Year       Company                Type of Business           Loan    Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.       Materials                 0.30        -      0.30
1964/  Industrial                Development                    -    0.39        0.39
1970     Finance Corporation       Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group         Cement and
1975/                              Construction
1973/1979                          Materials                28.33    4.24       32.57
1977   Mutual Fund Company       Money and Capital
Limited                  Market                        -    0.29       0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                   Processing                2.50    0.20       2.70
1973   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries          2.00       -       2.00
1979/ Bangkok Glass Industry
1980     Company, Limited        Glass Containers            4.85    0.34        5.19
1979   Siam City Cement          Cement and Construc-
Company, Limited          tion Materials          36.00    4.00       40.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                  -    0.15       0.15
Total gross commitments                              73.98    9.61      83.59
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           49.04    2.56       51.60
Net held by the Corporation                          24.94    7.05      31.99
Total undisbursed                                     6.00        -      6.00



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of September 30, 1980)
Loan No. 822 Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4
Million Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22,
1972; Original Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Current
Closing Date: July 31, 1980
As a whole the project has been about 30 months behind schedule due
to initial delays in civil works and consequent delays in furniture and equip-
ment procurement. During the last two years, however, implementation has
progressed satisfactorily and is now complete. The total project cost has
exceeded the appraisal estimates by about 36%. The project objectives
(expansion and improvement of facilities, improvement of curricula and staff
development) have been reached.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Original Closing
Date:  June 30, 1978; Current Closing Date:  September 30,
1980
All project components have been completed, about 30 months behind
schedule because of delays on the Teacher Training Colleges component. Good
progress was made in the pedagogical development of project components except
at Songkla University because the attraction of teaching at Bangkok
universities is resulting in high staff turnover.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory and is expected
to be completed ahead of schedule. All civil works have been tendered and
most contracts awarded. More than half of equipment and furniture has been
procured.  Nearly all fellowships have been awarded.  Staff training programs
are on schedule but need to be improved, as does supervision by the Ministry
of Education of its nonformal education programs.
Credit No. 913  Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28, 1979;
Effective Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
Good progress is being made in project implementation: (i) the
Central Procurement Unit has been established; (ii) sites for all first phase
institutions have also been acquired, and construction of this phase is
expected to be completed by mid-1981; (iii) Phase I sketch plans and lists for
most furniture and equipment have also been prepared; and (iv) technical
assistance consultants have been identified and partly contracted.
Loan No. 864 First Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December
5, 1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is lagging a few months behind the revised time schedule
established in 1975 due to delays in procurement. The Bank loan is fully
committed and as of September 30, 1980, $0.4 million remains to be disbursed.
Nearly all of the local telephone network expansion has been completed.
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million Loan of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1980; current Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Procurement action on
all Bank-financed items is complete. The Bank loan is fully committed and
almost fully disbursed. Local telephone network expansion is a few months
behind schedule. The project is now expected to be completed by the end of
December 1980, 11 months behind schedule, and to be fully disbursed by
September 1981.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Due to a delay in the borrower's decision on standardization of
switching equipment and cables, action on procurement is a year behind
schedule. Waiting lists have been introduced in all telephone areas and
procedures for giving new connections revised. Progress on implementation of
other project components is satisfactory. The TOT's financial condition
remains good.
Loan No. 1519  Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project:  $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress is generally satisfactory. Procurement of maintenance
equipment is under way, and all contracts have been awarded. Construction
on over 5% of project roads is well under way, with most contracts on
schedule.
Loan No. 1662 Fifth Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1Q79;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Pate: June 30, 1q82
Progress on project implementation is satisfactory. The financial con-
dition of the State Railway of Thailand remains weak, and the Bank has urged
the Government to fulfil its obligations by implementing the necessary tariff
revisions.
Loan No. 1889  Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project; $53 million loan
of August Z/, 1980; Effective Date: Decemher 10, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This loan was declared effective on December 10, 1980.
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project: $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Original Closing Date: June 30, 1979; Current Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project will be completed three years behind schedule as a
result of initial delays in appointing consultants and in procuring
earthmoving equipment. Work on rehabilitation of main canal systems has been
completed and the pace of construction of tertiary canals has improved
considerably. The current estimate of project cost is $30.3 million, compared
with $12.5 million at appraisal. This increase is due to inflation being
higher than foreseen at appraisal, the decision to provide new tertiary canals
over an area of 34,700 ha rather than the 21,500 ha assumed at appraisal, and
the adoption of higher standards for tertiary development than envisioned at
appraisal. The higher costs are compensated by increases in projected
commodity prices and the economic rate of return is now estimated at 24%
compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress on the rainfed rice component, earlier
affected by management difficulty in integrating the wor'k of several different
disciplinary groups, is now satisfactory.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
page 7 of 12
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4, 1978; Effective Date: May 9,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
The consultant's contract was signed in March 1979. Work by
contract is delayed but "force account" work began in early 1980. However,
progress has been slow due to delay in equipment procurement and recent
shortages of cement and fuel.
Loan No. 1149  Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Major civil works are about one year behind schedule, but project
completion is still expected by mid-1984. Construction work on the diversion
dam is progressing well and works are expected to be completed by end-1980.
About 4,500 ha of on-farm development was completed in 1979 and about 5,000 ha
will be completed this year.  All studies financed under the project are
proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1468 Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Equipment procurement is progressing satisfactorily. Rehabilitation
and on-farm development works on about 13,000 ha have been completed, bringing
the total area developed to 35,000 ha, which is in accordance with the
appraisal estimate. A monitoring system is being set up and the project is
now served by the National Agricultural Extension Project.
Loan No. 1787 Eleventh Irrigation Project; $80 Million Loan of
January 17, 1980; Effective Date: April 2, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Consultants were selected for both the Pattani and Mae Klong
components in April 1980 although a contract has only been signed for Mae
Klong.   Force account operations began on both components since early 1980
and extension of the main canal for Mae Klong is being carried out by
contract.  Delays in completing designs and procuring equipment mean that
only limited progress is expected to be made during 1981.
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 28, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
After a delay of one year in appointing consultants, satisfactory
progress is being made Qn the engineering of village roads. The first con-
tract for construction of 114 km has been completed and work is more than 50%
complete on two contracts for a total of some 300 km for village access roads.
Works on other contracts are expected to begin soon. The road maintenance
program under the project is doing well. Procurement problems have delayed
the water supply components, but most of the drilling equipment has now been
delivered, drilling crews have been recruited and are being trained. The
rural electrification component has been completed, and progress on agri-



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
cultural extension and land settlements is satisfactory. After a slow
start-up, the Upland Crop Improvement Component is progressing satisfactorily.
The program management, with the assistance of a recently appointed program
advisor, has undertaken a critical review of past work and is gradually intro-
ducing an innovative program of research to help solve the problems of upland-
crop farmers in the Northeast.
Credit No. 929 Northern Agricultural Development Project; $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Reasonable progress has been achieved during the first year of
project implementation, given the difficulties which have been encountered
in regard to budgeting, contracting and staffing. IDA staff are giving close
attention to these problems in an effort to help resolve them. In cases
where works have been delayed, no serious consequences will result.
Loan No. 1199T  Livestock Develoment Project; $5.0 Million Loan of February
U, 19/b; Ettective Date:  may 1J, 19/b; Clo_singDate:  June
30, 1981
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily but disburse-
ments remain about eighteen months behind appraisal estimates. The seed
production and pasture development programs are progressing well and the
loaned-bull and artificial insemination program, hitherto hindered by the
delay in importation of cattle, are improving.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing date: June
30, 1981
The project is one year behind schedule due to procurement diffi-
culties and initial delay in loan signing as well as in agreeing on the
formula of fertilizers to be procured through ICB. Implementation is
improving, however. Staff constraints have delayed completion of the
socio-economic survey of rubber smallholders.
Loan No. 1393  National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Supervisory staff have been appointed in all 33 project provinces,
and remaining vacancies are expected to be filled by end-1980. The quality of
training, particularly that for subject matter specialists, can be further
improved. Efforts to rectify shortcomings in the quality of leadership and
technical support are being made in the weaker provinces. Excellent extension
results have already been achieved, in particular through the extensive use of
s,nall pumps for dry-season cropping by small farmer groups, and in improve-
ments in home gardens.  The civil works program is about two years behind



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
schedule because of high inflation and, until recently, the low unit cost
ceilings for civil works set by the Budget Bureau. Procurement of vehicles,
equipment and materials is on schedule. Disbursements are lagging through the
delays in the civil works program. Consultants continue to provide excellent
assistance.
Loan No. 1752 Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18, 1979; Effective Date: December 18, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Implementation progress to date is satisfactory. Supervisory staff
have received training but there is a shortage of qualified candidates for
Extension Agent posts.
Loan No. 1816 Agricultural Credit Project; $19 Million Loan of
April 30, 1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Preparation for project implementation has been somewhat slow, but
responsible agencies expect implementation to improve during the current
fiscal year. The EEC has agreed to provide a grant of $3.5 million to
finance the cooperative training program; this decision was made after the
Bank loan was signed.
Loan No. 977 Srinagarind (Ban Chao Nen) Hydroelectric Project; $75 Million
Loan of April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Civil works under the project are nearly completed. The
installation of the turbine generating units is expected to be completed on
schedule. Project costs are likely to be about 30% higher than appraisal
estimates, due mainly to additional grouting work required beneath the main
embankment. The progress on resettlement has been satisfactory, and all of
the families affected have now been resettled.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The construction of the main civil works is nearly completed.
Construction for the resettlement component is about 75% complete.
Disbursements are generally in line with appraisal estimates. Installation
of electrical and mechanical equipment is underway but not quite satisfactory
because of the delayed delivery of equipment by the manufacturers.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan No. 1527 The Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
Loan of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
After an initial delay in procurement, progress on project
implementation is satisfactory.
Loan No. S-10 Natural Gas Development Engineering Project, $4.9 Million Loan
of July 28, 1978; Effective Date: September 25, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is close to completion. In July 1979, the Borrower, the
National Gas Organization of Thailand, was taken over by the Petroleum
Authority of Thailand who is the Borrower for a loan of $107 million for the
Second Gas Pipeline project (Loan No. 1773-TH). Loan No. S-10-TH will be
refinanced under Loan No. 1773-TH, when the latter becomes effective.
Loan No. 1690 Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9, 1979; Effective Date: May 23, 1980.
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This loan became effective on May 23, 1980. Site development has
been completed. Foundation piling is underway, slightly behind schedule, due
to the unsatisfactory performance of the contractor in the initial period.
Loan No. 1773 Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; $107 Million Loan of
February 15, 1980; Closing Date:  December 31, 19R3
The natural gas development project is progressing satisfactorily
and should be completed on time and within the cost estimate. Loan effec-
tiveness has been delayed pending signature of a sales contract with EGAT,
expected shortly.
Loan No. 1770  Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project; $80 Million Loan of
June 17, 1980; Effective Date: September 17, 1480;
Closing Date: February 28, 1985
This loan became effective on September 17, 1980.  Progress of
construction is generally satisfactory and about 10% complete by the end of
September 1980.
Loan 'No. 1852 Mae Moh Lignite Project; $72 Million Loan of
June 17, 1980; Effective Date: September 17, lq80;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This loan became effective on September 17, 1980. Initial progress
on implementation is satisfactory.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation commenced on schedule but is about fourteen
months behind schedule because of difficulties encountered with the largest
contract. The National Housing Authority (NHA) is reviewing ways to resolve
these problems. Project completion is expected to be about six months behind
schedule. Good progress, however, has been made on the various policy
concepts on which the project is based, and NIIA's financial management has
been strengthened through technical assistance.
Loan No. 1870 National Sites and Services Project; $29 tMillion Loan of
August 8, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Design and procurement are generally proceeding satisfactory.
Efforts have also been initiated to hire consultants for a housing finance
study, a financial management study of the Bangkok Metropolitan Administra-
tion and project preparation and municipal financial management studies in
regional cities.
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
The project-s overall progress has been slower than expected but
nevertheless promising. The most pressing concern is to strengthen the role
of OCMRT in guiding project implementation. Tangible project progress to
date has been principally (a) the successful introduction of 100 km of bus
lanes; (b) introduction of a computer controlled traffic signal system in
central Bangkok; and (c) a variety of minor civil works. Progress on insti-
tutional development of the executing agency (OCMRT), however, continues to
be slower than expected.
Loan No. 1492 The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project; $4.75
Million Loan of December 5, 1977; Effective Date: March 24,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation continues to be good. On-site infrastruc-
ture has progressed further with 95% of the civil works completed. A dispute
between TEAT and the contractors has prevented the remaining 5% from being
completed sooner. This dispute is likely to be resolved soon, and the
estate-s full development is scheduled for mid-1981. External infrastructure
has been lagging, especially in respect of the Lat Krabang-Nong Chok access
road. Delays in construction and design changes have increased cost
estimates for the access road to B 99 million in 1980, up from an initial
estimate of B 33 million in 1977. The Governiment had agreed to guarantee the
construction of the access road, and an understanding has been reached that
t'ne access road will be constructed with funds advanced by Bangkok Metropol-
itan Administration (BMA) to be subsequently reimbursed from next year's
Budget Bureai allocation.  Hiowever, there has been no construction activity
to date.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Loan No. 992 Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974: Original Closing Date: September 3
1978; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's financial condition
continued to be good. The loan is fully committed and nearly disbursed.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1980; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The loan commitment rate was initially slower than expected because
of sharply depressed investment climate in 1976. This has much improved and
loan is now almost fully committed.
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27, 197
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
After a delay of about 18 months, there has been a noticeable
improvement in overall project implementation. Out of 405 provincial level
facilities, contracts have been awarded for 168, and 67 have been completed.
Of the 25 district hospitals, 11 are under contract. Of the 10 national
level training facilities, 5 are under contract with one nearing completion.
First round contracts for contraceptive supplies and vehicles have been let,
and contracts are about to be signed for additional vehicles and for
printing, medical and audiovisual equipment. Most services, training, TEC
and population evaluation and research activities (F. & R) are on schedule and
progressing satisfactorily.  Delays have occurred in management training,
health related E & R, and procurement of civil works and commodities.  IDA
approved a proposal to tap the innovative activities category of the credit
for an "Innovative Village Nutrition Project."  Most project activities are
expected to be completed by late 1982.  Updated cost estimates indicate a
probable cost overrun of about $4 million.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
THAILAND
POTASH ENGINEERING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time required to prepare the project:  14 months
(b)  The agency that prepared the project:  Ministry of Industry and
its Department of
Mineral Resources, assisted
by the Bank
(c) Date of first presentation to the
Bank:                                   December 1978
Date of first Bank mission to
consider the project:                   April 15, 1979
(d) Date of departure of the appraisal
mission:                                June 29, 1980
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:    T)ecember 3, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:            May 15, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Retroactive financing will be made available under the loan for the
Government to engage (a) legal and financial counsel; and (b) experienced
specialists to assist in the technical evaluation and selection of proposals
and to procure any equipment necessary to initiate the project. The Bank's
approval of the consultants selection, terms and conditions, and terms of
reference will be required.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Borrower has agreed that:
(i)  execution of the shaft and trial mining operations will he
carried out only after the consultants have reviewed all
drilling information and the plan for trial mining has
been approved by DMR and the Bank (para. 43);
(ii) the feasibility study will be executed by qualified
international consultants whose selection, qualifications,
experience, terms of reference and terms and conditions of
employment will be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 47);



- 39 -
ANN3EX III
Page 2
(iii)  disbursements fro, the loan for phase two of the
feasibility study would only comerence if the Borrower
and the Bank agree that the findings of phase one
justify proceeding (para. 50).
(b) Additional conditions of effectiveness are:
(i)   ognarir. cf the contract For carrying out the
feasibility study (para. 47); and
(ii)  Appointmnent of a suitably qualified mining engineer
to lead the tean of technical advisors (para. 48).



ANNEX IV
- 40 -                               Page 1 of 9
THAILAND - POTASH ENGINEERING PROJECT
TERMS-OF-REFERENCE FOR A FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR A
POTASH FERTILIZER PROJECT
Background
1.        During the drilling of boreholes for groundwater exploration in
the 1950's, thick beds of rock salt were discovered by the Thai authorities
in the Northeast of Thailand. Subsequently, since 1970, several drilling
programs, with a total of 110 boreholes, have been carried out by the
Department of Mineral Resources on the salt deposits. These programs
established the existence of three salt-bearing beds overlain with and
separated by claystones covering an area of 50,000 sq km. About 33,000
sq km of this area is contained in the Khorat basin. The remaining 17,000
sq km lie in the Udon-Nakhon basin, at the other side of the Phu Phan
mountain range (see map). Columnar sections of this geological structure
showed the occurrence of potash minerals in the form of carnallite
(KCl.MgCl2.6H20) and, in lesser amounts of sylvinite (KC1 mixed with NaCl)
on top of the deepest rock salt bed, at depths of 90 to 500 m.
2.        The drilling prqgrams carried out by the DMR can be broken down as:
(i) reconnaissance drillings consisting of 63 boreholes spaced roughly 40-50
km throughout the Khorat and Udon-Nakhon basins; (ii) exploration drillings
consisting of 10 boreholes at Na Chuak; and (iii) development drillings
consisting of 33 boreholes over an area of 30 sq km, at Bamnet Narong, in
the Western end of the Khorat basin.
3.        The reconnaissance drilling show carnallite as the most abundant
potash mineral, intercepted in more than half of the boreholes drilled
in the basins. High grade carnallite (13-14% K 20) was identified at Bamnet
Narong and Udon Thani. The subsequent 33 development drillings at Bamnet
Narong have established the existence of a significant carnallite bed, in
sufficient amounts that could economically justify its industrialization.
4.        Regarding sylvinite (a preferred mineral for potash production),
only minor scattered mineralization was identified in the following places:
Khon Kaen (a 3.1 m section with 24% K 0 at 135 in depth); Wanon Niwat (a
5.9 m section with 35% K20 at 480 m depth); Sri Chiengmai (a 4.5 m section
with 16% K 20 at 135 m depth; and at Bamnet Narong (a 5.1 m section with
20% K 0 at 120 m depth): Subsequent closely spaced drillings were carried
out at Khon Kaen, Sri Chiengmai and Bamnet Narong, but these drillings were
not successful in establishing that an extension of the sylvinite previously
intercepted does exist in a continuous bed. Additional drillings in these
and in other promising sylvinite areas are necessary to establish whether
sylvinite does exist in economically exploitable forms and amounts.
Objectives
5.        The Government of Thailand wishes to contract the services of
specialized consultants to carry out a comprehensive feasibility study on a
potash fertilizer project, in accordance with these Terms-of-Reference. The
main objectives of the study are the following:



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 9
- 41 -
(i)  to determine the technical, financial and economic viability
of a potash project in Thailand based on the carnallite
deposits already known at Bamnet Narong. The feasibility
study should also establish the pre-feasibility of sylvinite
deposits that may be identified by ongoing exploration activi-
ties being conducted by DMR during 1980-81. In this context,
sufficient work should be carried out on the alternative ores
to establish the relative merits of a project based on either
of the two potash minerals, the possible interrelationships
among these projects--if more than one project is recommended--
and the optimal timing for their execution;
(ii)  to provide a comprehensive and documented compilation of all
detailed facts concerning the project which could be presented
to potential equity participants and sources of finance; and
(iii)  to present an appropriate plan of exploitation and production,
with engineering design, equipment lists, and manpower levels
to a degree of details sufficient for an accurate prediction
of costs and results.
6.        The consultants will evaluate the viability of a project with an
annual capacity of 1.0 million tpy KC1. They should also investigate through
sensitivity analysis the merits of different sizes for the potash project
(such as for example 600,000 tpy of KC1, 800,000 tpy KC1, and 1.2 million
tpy KC1) in order to determine the optimal project size which would maximize
the economic benefits of the project.
7.        The consultants should carry out inter alia preliminary basic design
and engineering work to allow preparation of realistic (i.e., sufficient
accuracy to permit subsequent investment decision) capital and operating cost
estimates for the project, including the mining and potash processing facili-
ties. Due to the geological characteristics of the carnallite deposits at
Bamnet Narong, the study shall include the sinking of an exploration shaft to
a depth of about 200 m and trial mining operations in order to establish the
technical and economic viability of the mining operations and the optimal
mine design. This work, however, will be initiated only after approval by the
DMR and after earlier work has established the technical viability of the mining
and processing operations.
8.        The consultants should identify and evaluate the development and
social impacts of the project to the Northeast. They should further consider
possible changes in some of the parameters of the project and its infrastruc-
ture that could have favorable impacts on this underdeveloped area of the
country. An analysis of the social and economic benefits and costs of these
changes should be made in order to permit a decision on the desirability of
executing them.
9.        While carrying out its assignment, the consultant shall coordinate
its work with the work for development of rock salt deposits in the Bamnet
Narong area. In particular, if it is not detrimental to the feasibility study,
it should investigate the possibility of sinking the exploration shaft in



ANNEX IV
- 42 -                            Page 3 of 9
such a location where it could also be used for mining of rock salt and of
selecting equipment for trial mining operations which could, upon completion
of the potash trial mining, be used for rock salt mining operations in
the area. In addition, it should investigate the desirability of, in any
follow-on development of the potash deposits, using some facilities and
operations in common with rock salt mining development in the area, such as
township facilities, transportation system, utilities, and the use in one
project of the by-products of the other, if proved to be feasible.
10.       To ensure that the objectives of the study are fully met, the
consultants would provide the services of highly qualified experts with
satisfactory experience in both mining and potash processing, specially by
the hot leach/crystallization process. If the consultant firm specializes
in mining operations, it should consider associating itself with a consult-
ant specialized in potash processing. If the consultant firm is a specialist
in potash processing, it should consider associating itself with a firm
specialized in mining operations. Joint Ventures are desirable.
Schedule of Works
11.       It is expected that the consultant's work will take about 17 months
to complete from the date of contract award. Within 2 months from the start
of work, the consultants shall submit to the DMR an inception report outlining
preliminary findings and conclusions. Subsequently, there will be several interim
reviews at key stages of the execution of the study, as agreed with the DMR, in
order to ensure the achievement of the objective of the study. The work under
the feasibility study is divided into two phases, as shown in the Scope-of-work
below. Phase II will be initiated only after approval by DMR and Phase I has proven
the quantity, quality and continuity of an economic potash deposit. If the results
of Phase I are not satisfactory, the DMR has the right to terminate the contract.
12.       The DMR will review and agree with the selected consultant on (i) any
modifications on this Terms-of-Reference that may be desirable; (ii) the
detailed implementation schedule for all the items and studies included in
the feasibility study, considering the interrelationship among them; (iii)
the key stages of the study, when interim reviews will take place, to determine
courses of further action.
Scope of Work
13.       The specific areas to be covered by the feasibility study include, but
are not limited to the following:
Phase I
Phase I will include:
A. Availablity of Potash Raw Materials
Study the potential sources of raw material for a potash project,
including the better-known carnallite deposits at Bamnet Narong



ANNEX IV
- 43 -                            Page 4 of 9
and other promising deposits not being investigated by
private firms, in other areas. For each of these potential
reserves, review all available data and then propose, and
thereafter conduct or coordinate the execution, as
appropriate, of any supplementary localized geophysical
surveys (including resistivity and/or gravity surveys), core
drillings and geotechnical tests that may be necessary at
these locations to (i) fully prove the quantity, quality and
continuity of carnallite and/or sylvinite deposits as
required to sustain an economic potash plant of up to 1.2
million tpy of KCI; and (ii) gather data, propose, and carry
out any necessary testings for mechanical characteristics
to determine the most suitable mining method. The DMR
possesses diamond drilling equipment and will execute on its
own account all required drilling work, in coordination with
the consultant. The DMR will undertake on its own account
all laboratory rock mechanics tests and the installation of
in situ rock mechanics testing, all as recommended by consultant.
B. Potash Refinery
(i) Carry out all chemical, bench and processing tests that may be
necessary to gather data for the determination of the optimal
process and equipment for the production of commercial grade
potash (including such tests as complete chemical analysis,
filtration, settling, decomposition, leach and pilot plant
testing).
(ii) make a thorough comparison of the alternative production processes
for potash, (including the desirability of upgrading the carnallite
ore by mechanical, electrical or other means), evaluating their
impact on product quality, marketability and product prices; and
(iii) determine the optimal refinery process.
C. Design of Trial Mining
Determine the scope and design a program of trial mining, including
method of access to the ore body, location and dimension for
approval by the DMR, of trial mining area, method of trial mining,
and in situ rock mechanics monitoring program. This trial mining
should serve to demonstrate the successful application of the
proposed full scale mining method. The location of the shaft
should take into consideration that it could also be used for the
mining of rock salt in the area around 1Q-2 and RS-2.5. The
selection of facilities for trial mining should take into
consideration that the facilities can be used for mining of rock salt.



ANUIEX IV
44 -                               Page 5 of 9
D.  Exploration Shaft and Initiation of Trial Mining Investigations
For the potash deposits that are proven during or after the
execution of Item (A) above, and after receiving approval to
proceed further by the DMR, identify the possible geological
and mining technical problems that may affect mining operations
and the possible corrective actions and solutions to overcome
them. For this purpose an exploration shaft shall be sunk and
trial mining operation should be carried out to the point when
removal of ore has been completed. The trial mining operations
will be completed in Phase II in order to enhance geological
knowledge and perform in situ empirical investigations of
geological and mechanical rock properties, as well as to obtain
bulk samplings of ore for refinery processing tests. Proposed
specifications for the exploration shaft and pilot trial opera-
tions are given in the Attachment to these Terms-of-Reference.
The consultants, however, should present alternative proposals
for the shaft and trial mining on the basis of their own
experience.
E. Preliminary Review of Utility, Infrastructure and Environmental
Arrangements
Make a preliminary review of the utility, infrastructure and environ-
mental requirements of the Project and determine the availability
of such facilities for the project.
F. Preparation of Interim Report
Upon completion of Phase I, the consultants shall prepare an Interim
Report with an analysis of the technical viability of the final
project.
Phase II
Phase II will be initiated only after the DMR has approved the Interim
Report referred above and concluded that results of Phase I justify proceeding
to Phase II. Phase II will include the following:
G. Completion of Trial Mining Investigations and Development of
Appropriate Mining Methods and Facilities
(i) complete the trial mining investigations initiated in Phase I with
particular emphasis on monitoring underground strata movements;
(ii) determine the most adequate economic and technically proven method
for mining the potash ores, after investigation of all geological,
mechanical and cost factors that may influence the selection; the
desirability of solution mining should be investigated;



ANNEX IV
-~ 45Page 6 of 9
(iii) recommend the most suitable mine configuration;
(iv)  prepare a conceptual mining plan, production schedule and
a layout of all the facilities which would be required for
the mining of the potash ore, including location of shafts
that might be also used for exploration purposes;
(v)  carry out preliminary design and engineering work to enable
the selection and sizing of all major machinery and equip-
ment which would be needed for the mining, storage and
transport of potash ore to the refinery; and
(vi)  prepare preliminary estimates of capital costs and operating
costs for the potash mine.
H. Refinery Design and Engineering
(i) Determine the optional project scope, plant capacity and
size that would maximize the project benefits;
(ii)  carry out preliminary basic design and engineering work to
enable the selection and sizing of all major equipment
required for the processing plant and ancillary facilities; and
(iii)  prepare estimates of capital costs and operating
costs for the potash refinery and ancillary facilities.
I. Utilities, Infrastructure and Ecology
(i) Determine the project's utility requirements and recommend
optimal supply arrangements for the potash refinery and mine
(such as electric power, water, fuel, gas, etc.). Due
consideration should be given to expected demand and supply
balances in the country for some of the inputs, such as fuel
oil and gas; the quality of water available should be studied;
(ii)  determine the infrastructure needs of the project (such as
access roads, railways, terminal port facilities, township,
etc.);
(iii)  determine the capital and operating costs for the utilities
and infrastructure required by the project; and
(iv)  analyze the environmental impacts of the project such as the
effect of liquid effluent and recommend control and other
devices (such as deep wells) that will ensure that the project
would be constructed and operated in accordance with inter-
national and local standards, including those provided by the
office of the National Environmental Board (NEB). Prepare
an Environmental Impact Study as required by the office of the
TXTT.'T)



ANNEX IV
-46 -                                 Page 7 of 9
J. Project Implementation Arrangements and Schedule
(i) Propose arrangements for project design, engineering, procure-
ment, construction, commissioning and operations, including
guarantees and bonuses/penalties for process performance,
schedules, specific consumptions, etc.;
(ii) design suitable organizational and administrative arrangements
for the efficient management and supervision of project
construction and operations, including a detailed assessment
of needs of foreign staff and consultants by categories and
by duration;
(iii) indicate total staffing requirements for the mining, processing
and other operations, broken down by categories as appropriate,
to identify sources and plan training program; and
(iv) develop a practical economic and expedient plan for the implementa-
tion of the project, and draw up a realistic and detailed time
schedule for project implementation.
K. Capital and Operating Costs
(i)  Provide a detailed capital cost for the entire project, including
mining, processing, utilities, infrastructure, working capital
and interest during construction, all with a breakdown of cost
items between local and foreign exchange costs. The cost estimate
should have sufficient accuracy on the basis of preliminary design
engineering work carried out by the consultant to enable investors
to make an investment decision on the subsequent project; provide
an explanation on the assumptions used in the estimation; and
(ii) provide estimates of operating costs (including maintenance and
transportation to the port) for the project, with detailed break-
down. The estimate should be based on both local and international
prices.
L. Financial and Economic Analysis
(i) Evaluate the financial viability of the overall project on the basis
of discounted cash flow projections and internal financial rate of
return calculations. The basic assumptions used in the financial
evaluation should be fully explained. The computation should include
a risk analysis to evaluate the sensitivity of the project to critical
factors;



ANNEX IV
- 47 -                               Page 8 of 9
(ii)  evaluate the economic viability of the overall project on the
basis of internal economic rates of return. For this purpose,
all inputs and outputs should be evaluated at their economic
opportunity cost, rather than at domestic market prices which
may reflect market imperfections. For internationally tradeable
goods, CIF international prices can be used as representative
of opportunity costs. Appropriate risk analyses should also
be made; the assumptions used in the evaluation should be fully
explained;
(iii) prepare projected financial statements (Balance Sheet, Income
Statements and Cash Flows) for 15 years, in current prices; and
(iv) evaluate the impact of the project to the Northeast and identify
direct and indirect social and economic benefits. Consider
possible changes in some of the parameters of the project and
its infrastructure that could have favorable impacts on the
Northeast. Analyze the social and economic benefits and costs
of these changes in order to permit a decision on the desira-
bility of executing them.
M. Market and Marketing Aspects
(i) Review all available information, including that prepared by
the UNIDO/FAO/IBRD Fertilizer Working Group, and conduct addi-
tional analysis of past consumption of potash fertilizers in
Thailand and the neighboring potential markets (including
the Asian region, India, Australia, Japan and China) and
identify likely export markets for Thai potash;
(ii) prepare potash demand and supply projections for 15 years on
a global basis and on a country-by-country basis. Analyze
supply and demand balances;
(iii) prepare import/export matrices on international potash trade
on a country-by-country basis and identify the importance of
Thai potash in the future international trade market;
(iv) review and analyze all available information on current and
prospective potash prices, transportation costs, likely sources
of supply to prospective markets;
(v) assess likely landed prices of Thai potash from the project
to potential markets and compare them with projected import
prices from competitive sources. Assess the importance of
other factors affecting demand, such as quick response to
orders, quality, merchandising, etc.;



ANNEX IV
- 48 -                             Page 9 of 9
(vi)  recommend suitable organizational arrangements for the
handling, storage, transportation and distribution of Thai
potash to potential markets in Thailand and overseas; and
(vii)  recommend a marketing strategy for the introduction of Thai
potash in potential markets, including seeding programs,
price discounts, promotional campaigns, etc.



ANNEX IV
Attachment
- 49 -                               Page 1 of 4
A. Exploration Shaft
1.        The exploration shaft would be located at or near drill hole RS-2.0
in area of flat surface topography, relief less than 10 meters. Stratigraphic
column from surface to bottom for RS-2.0 is (in meters):
0 -   6 M Topsoil
6-  36 M Clay
36 -  39 M Anhydrite Gypsum
39 -  54 M Clay/Claystone
54 - 99 M Halite
99 - 101 M Anhydrite Gypsum
101 - 112 M Halite
112 - 118 M Clay
118 - 135 M Halite
135 - 136 M Sylvinite
136 - 175 M Carnallite/Halite/Tachyhydrite
175 - 250 M Halite
Shaft Specifications
Diameter 3 - 5
Sinking depth 190 meters
Mine access at 150 meters
Shaft to be concrete or steel lined to top of halite at 72 meters and keyed and
grouted to control surface water in flow. Shaft to be equipped with rock skip/
man cage hoisting, rock loading and dump arrangements/mine services and downcast/
upcast ventilation. Shaft should be designed to lift a minimum total of 73,000
cubic meters of in situ rock material within a period of 8 months in accordance
with paragraphs B and C below. The suggested peak capacity of shaft is 710 cubic
meters per day of material, operating at two shifts per day of 8 hours each. A
second shaft should be considered where ventilation requirements and cost dictate.
The possibility of shaft drilling using a large diameter drill rig or other equip-
ment should also be considered in order to minimize time and cost.
B. Access Tunnels
2.        Twin parallel tunnels, with crosscuts as required, on 25 to 30 meter
centers.  Inclined up from shaft bottom at plus 5 per cent to intersect carnallite
horizon.  Excavation will be in both halite and carnallite.  Length:  700 meters
(each); Section: 3 m x 5 m (each); Excavation volume: 28,000 cu meters or about
48,000 metric tons. Ground control requirements are estimated to be: rock
bolting: over 25 per cent of roof area. Flexible spray coating: over 100 per cent
of surface area to seal carnallite from moist ventilating air.
C. Pilot Trial Mining Area
3.        To be carried out in vicinity of drill holes RS-l.l, in area approximately
100 meters by 200 meters. Stratigraphic column for RS-l.l is (in meters):



ANNEX IV
Attachment
- 50 -                                 Page 2 of 4
0 - 18 M Topsoil
18-  55M Clay
55 - 113 M Halite
113 - 118 M Clay
118 - 120 M Halite
120 - 122 M Sylvinite/Halite
122 - 125 M Carnallite
125 - 126 M Carnallite/Tachyhydrite
126 - 131 M Tachyhydrite
131 - 147 M Carnallite
147 - 302 M Halite
The consultant shall carry out the pilot mining operations using the room-and-
pillar method with different configurations and dimensions for the rooms and
pillars. The work should be carried out in such a manner as to obtain all
necessary information to establish the final optimal mine design and mining
method, which could include shortwall techniques or backfill.
4.        Mine excavations and pillars to be designed for stable openings, laid
out with a number of intersecting rooms in right angles. Estimated average re-
quirements are:
Rooms: 4 m high by 9 m wide
Pillar size: typically 25 meters wide
Total length of room excavations in both directions: 1,200 meters
Excavation volume: 45,000 cu meters or 77,000 metric tons
Ground control requirements are estimated to be:
Rock bolting: over 50 per cent of roof area
Spray coating: over 100 per cent of surface area
D. Hydrology
5.        No known occurrence of groundwater over mine horizon.  Surface water
control will be required due to lack of natural drainage. Total annual precipi-
tation estimated at 1,100 mm. Maximum monthly precipitation estimated at 230 mm.
E. Characteristics of Rock Strata
6.        Clay/Claystone:  Weak, bentonitic, deteriorates on contact with
water. No strength data available.
Halite:           Typical strength data based on core tests is:
Compressive strength 3,400-5,400 PSI
Tensile strength 180-260 PSE
Youngs Modulo 200.000 PSI
Poissons ratio 0.25 TP 0.75.



ANNEX IV
Attachment
Page 3 of 4
Carnallite:     No strength data available.  Weak, deteriorates
on exposure to moisture. Soft, no hard seams or
inclusions.
Tachyhydrite:   No strength data available.  Extremely weak and
hygroscopic. Deteriorates immediately on exposure
to moist air. There are no clay seams associated
with the mining horizon or immediate roof.
F. Proposed Schedule of Works
7.        Shaft sinking and equipping (excluding mobilization):  3 months.
Mine access and trial mining area: 8 months. Total mine output: 73,000
cu meters of in situ rock or 125,000 tons. Production rate (est.): 650-1,000
tpd.
G. Mine Equipment
8.        All equipment to be procured by consultant.  All mobile equipment and
major capital items will be leased or provided by contractor. The DMR will be
prepared to purchase equipment upon completion of contractors' work, to be used
for the mining of rock salt. Therefore, the equipment should be capable of
mining rock salt. Expendable equipment and supplies to be supplied by contractor.
Shaft for Capacity Indicated in Paragraph A Above
Headframe/skip dumping arrangement
Mine hoist
Shaft equipment/guides, steelwork, etc.
Skips/cage
Skip loading facilities at shaft bottom
Ventilation
Main and auxiliary fans
Air-conditioning (refrigeration) unit
Underground distribution and substations from a main surface
substation at the shaft collar
Power Mobile Equipment
The preferred equipment for excavation is the use of a undercutter
face drill and blasting equipment.
Contractor may also estimate alternative costs for mining using other equipment.
Ancillary equipment to transport men and materials underground as required. The



ANNEX IV
Attachment
Page 4 of 4
- 52 -
following services shall be costed by the consultant, although some of these
services may ultimately be provided by the Government:
Access to site and site preparation
Storage facilities and office
Water supply
Electrical power at 22 kv at main substation
Haulage of potash from shaft bin to stockpile
Field construction labor
Unskilled underground labor and both unskilled/semi-
skilled surface labor
Housing facilities.



THAI LAND
POTASH ENGINEERING, PROJECT
Implementation Schedule for Feasibility Study
io                 ~~~~~PHASE ONE                                         PHASE TY
ITEM                 MONTH  -3    -2    -101             2  F3       4      5     6     7      6     9      0h          12     3     14     1      16      7
I     I     I     I~~14       5   6I  I _7  1               o iIit       2       3    1J i         le      7
1. MARKET AND MARKETING STUDY
2. AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS-
I II GEOPHYSICAL SURVEYS
(ii) DRILLING-
3. REFINERY TESTS
4. MINING STUDI ES:                      ~~~~~~~~Contracting and
4. MINING STUDIES:                      ~~~~~~Equipment Procurement
Ii) SHAFT SINKING                               EEEuI   *hBuii
Contracting and Equipment Procurement
ill) TRIAL MINING                               *Eauuehhu,eaIl                                   asEUEIEEUEEEUIIICCIC
WIi) PRELIMINARY DESIGN ENGINEERING
(iv) OTHER SERVICES
5. REFINERY STUDIES:
i) STUDIES
(ii) PRELIMINARY DESIGN/ENGINEERING
6. UTILITY STUDIES
7. TRANSPORT AND INFRASTRUCTURE
S. ENVIRONMENT-
g. PFROJECT IMPLEMIENTATION A1MANGUIMENTS
10. ESTIMATION OF CAPITAL AND OPERATING
COSTS>
11. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Infomiediet                                             Fnl eAr
12. PRINTING AND PUBLICATION                                                                                                                                        FnlRpr
WVorld Bank - 22029



- 54 -
ANNEX VI
THAILAND - POTASH ENGINEERING PROJECT
rOjeft Organization
r   a&s , $ ittee                Financial and 
. o .s -Legal Counsel
Department of Kiea
1 Oa0WU0es - chairman
of Potash COmittee
PROJRCT UI
*        .                 I     
Seeretay of Potash
Co!du±ttee
!  Mls imiirstive     !
Geologis           i.
Cosltants for Excution
,of Famibility Stud



- 55 -
ANNEX VII
THAILAND - POTASH ENGINEERING PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
Estimated Disbursements in $ million
Bank Fiscal Year         Quarter                Quarterly        Cumulative
FY 1981               IV                     0.8              0.8
FY 1982                I                     1.4              2.2
II                     1.6              3.8
III                     1.8              5.6
IV                    1.7               7.3
FY 1983                I                     0.9              8.2
II                    0.5               8.7
III                    0.2               8.9






Q40   BURMA~C                      CHINA
2~_.00                            C'-                (            P           -,_                                     20° 
-20-   ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~ ~       ~~O"ySA>                                 HTHAI,AND       'o
0_Hong59    >           S 14 2\                   >               LAO  PEOPLE'S DEM. REP                       .         o            H    A
)HO  Ho,g   n Mi;                                                                                            S.       - d  Nn i      ;/\4:t    
e''~~-Kl                                               .,rSX<.,.
Ch,rg Re,               y-          g N P
-itz                  ts    '''k < -                                                                  "'
CIP
/ :;  I: H:         T=Dhcot =  .i    ,                                             F ;C                                             '  4 :
_,12°~ ~ ~~~ < C0                                                                                     4.0                   t   )
CE-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t"
½½"Cahonoa
V          41                         N           ~~~~~~DEMOCRATIC KAMPUCHEA
Sea                              ProoRuopONol~T -'        an 
or                                                                                                                       i           / 9 n r   ;0;t 0i :        :+i00 00?0 j tf;
-THAILAND
.   0  >Xgoe    )N+   Nt   ThBPlnmSmt eet                          POTASH    ENGINEERING    PROJECT
SALT BEARING AREAS
7</c/=   SALTE'EARIN5AREAl
o      BEOREHOLE$ WITH ROCK SALT
*      ROREIEROLES WITH ROCK0 SALT ANDCRNSAHHLTE
sOREHcsLES wRTH ROCK SALT. CARRNALLITE
0    t  0  0   g   T    .\ .-t  tEiBls   0;  D                1 ANDSYLV I TE
-    ROADS
I-I----_-  RAILWAYS
…-          H ---_-  CHANGIWATIEOUNDARES
0      50o    TO      I0o   25o    255                                                                              -      -   INTERINATMINALROIUOARAWS;
KILORRETERS          .                                      /
0                       HRLS -5 JS  ray   ' t K S T ec                                            \                                      ;              :cs            iw
000, eooloruI.ARoOeeIo0H leooo.dTO..Ieooel.ode oeo 00.s
s     M   A   L  A  Y  S  I A
eruopReeeotel ;    1   eJooosru.oRo,  .               I                                 102                             510                                 10s80u






101042                                                101045'                                                101048'
,                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~THAILAND
This map has been prepared by the World Banks stff  eccvsely tor the TonIenrenNe
of the r-d-r  of tho repor to which i in attahed  The doinatih-sced and the 
boofdarissh on thin ap do -dot imply or the par of the World 8ask and its                              POTASH    ENGINEERING    PROJECT
afiates, any  o'dgment on the 1pail statos of asy te-ritory hr any endorsement or  \
BAMNET NARONG PROJECT AREA
SHOWING TRIAL DRILLING RESULTS AND CONCEPTUAL MINE LAYOUT
A      ROCKSALTONLY
*      ROCKSALTWITH CARNALLITE
I --_ 1- ToChajyaphuos   0      ROCKSALTWITHSYLVITE
-                                             ______ t ,   ~--- -r \   AUNDERGROUND MINETUNNE.  15'30,
-15030'                             amnet Narong                                        /a-3.6%    GRADIENT OF MINING HORIZON
_~~---__ _ /                                              {                                --15o_ CONTOURSbF MINE HORIZON
-  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ -A-~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~   2.3@       2.9A    .oBan Na
7-i  -  e--T        -e-\           23  \      29-    ,oBA1.6                                             MINEAREABOUNDARY
ROADS
2 )   2_22ji  1      g      /------ TRACKS
-o------RAILWAYS
wX      / ~~~~Ban Kloi                          220-\                                 /1i|*RIWY
an T-    /     /  1/  \4Ban Hua Bung            j                  O                 1         2          3
/28anTan                   - .                                              MILESI
e   , /   |   /            \         X    \    ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-2,8 18\/    \\ALP08                          0 2~~       
I  -                                                                       -xo #<s   S  At W= bs f 34X
/// 88n PhEt ty /\ j/Mol/e Elv/- s 9 q ; ;\ 9t\ < 1Panel E tly  7.
¢ >  CHI NA   0  /   ]     <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \   l lEas                                  \              \             < \~~~~~~~~  -
DURMA A 8IA     -               10Ban154Ban   /                                      1010 /i /2 0  Ban4\                                                \i
DO SIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th -!11
<    QDEM.R  \ (   1_ 12  /         Nong~~~~~~~~~j_0 GI,n            P   1     _K1,J                  
vX    \   P;oject<. X // // \ \ ~~~~~~~2 \    Til  \ ~   1                I  v a
ggi    r   /         \\                      I                                         \\            I                    //\               20 w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ O61
<>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hf                                     Eastaf  Ma                                           ,        
A    SMALAW:~CINA     |              01211 5/                                                                                                    014                      D



