Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF028617
Global Environmental Trust Fund
Grant Agreement
(Biodiversity Protection Project)
between
CZECH REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
Trust Fund
Dated December
23, 1993
TF028617
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December
23,
1993, between CZECH REPUBLIC (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Trustee of grant funds
provided by Participants of the Global Environment Facility into the Global
Environment Trust Fund
(GET) (the Trustee).
WHEREAS
(A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank
(the Resolution), established the Global Environment Facility consisting of the 
GET, Cofinancing Arrangements with the GET and the Ozone Projects Trust Fund, to
assist in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby environmentally
sound and sustainable economic development;
(B)
certain members of the Bank (the Participants) have provided resources by 
way of grant into the GET and the Participants have requested and the Bank has agreed,
to administer such grant funds as Trustee, for the purposes of, and in accordance
with, provisions of the Resolution;
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule
2
to this Agreement, has requested assistance
from the resources of the GET in the financing of the Project, and the Trustee has
determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the
Resolution; and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the GET Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Page  2
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section
1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph
(b)
of this Section
(the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9),
(10), (11), 
(15), (18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 
and
6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Section 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term 'Special Drawing Rights' and the symbol 
'SDR' mean special drawing rights as valued by the International
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections
2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section
5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that 
in Section
6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in
its own capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GET Grant; and
(vi)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GET Grant Account.
Section
1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"PMCU" means the project management and coordination unit referred to in 
Section
3.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
"Project Area" means an area constituting the P
álava Zone, the Krkonoše 
Page  3
Zone and the Sumava Zone in the territory of the Recipient;
(c)
"Project Scientific Committee" means the Project scientific committee 
referred to in Section
3.03 of this Agreement to be established within the Ministry of 
Environment;
(d)
"Regional Coordinating Offices" means the offices referred to in Section 
3.04 of the Agreement to be established within the Ministry of Environment for each of 
the Sumava, Krkonose and P
álava Transboundary Zones;
(e)
"NGO" means non-governmental organization; and
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GET Grant
Section
2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GET Grant in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to one million five hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights
(SDR 1,500,000).
Section
2.02. (a) The amount of the GET Grant may be withdrawn from the GET 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1
to this Agreement for
expenditures made
(or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in a freely convertible currency satisfactory to the Trustee in a special deposit
account in a bank acceptable to the Trustee on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Trustee, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule
5
to this Agreement.
Section
2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or such later date as 
the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section
3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule
2
to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (i) 
carry out the Project through the Ministry of the Environment with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices
and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors;
(ii) maintain in real 
terms the current level of funding from its own resources for biodiversity protection
activities in the Project Area; and
(iii)
provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule
4
to this Agreement.
Section
3.02. The Recipient shall maintain the PMCU within the Ministry of the 
Environment, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee, with qualified and
experienced staff in adequate numbers, under the supervision of a Project coordinator,
whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to the Trustee.
Section
3.03. The Recipient shall by November 30, 1993, establish the Project 
Scientific Committee under terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee, comprised
of three internationally selected specialists
(geneticist, ecologist and land-use 
specialist) and three specialists from the territory of the Recipient in the same 
disciplines, whose qualifications and experience are satis- factory to the Trustee, to 
meet and review on a semi-annual basis the scientific progress of Project 
implementation.
Page  4
Section
3.04. The Recipient shall by November 30, 1993 establish the Regional 
Coordinating Offices under terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee.
Section
3.05. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the GET Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
3
to
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section
4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing prin- ciples 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year, the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GET Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
the GET Grant Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Trustee's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph
(b)
of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section
5.01. The following event is specified as a condition to the 
effectiveness of the GET Grant Agreement, namely, the establishment of the PMCU and
the appointment of the Project coordinator referred to in Section
3.02
of this
Agreement.
Section
5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section
5.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GET Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their
Page  5
obligations hereunder
.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section
6.01. The Minister of Environment of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section
6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Environment
Vrsovick
á
65
10010
Praha
10
Czech Republic
Telex:
122298
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688
(TRT),
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
Washington, D.C., as of the day and year first above written.
CZECH REPUBLIC
By
/s/
M.
Zantovsky
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
as Trustee of the Global Environment
Trust Fund
By
/s/
C.
Wallich
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GET Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Page  6
proceeds of the GET Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GET Grant to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
GET Grant Allocated
%
of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works:
(a)
for Part A.1(f)
200,000
100%
of the Project
(b)
for Part A.2(a)
 70,000
30%
of the Project
(2)
Goods and
400,000
100%
equipment
(3)
Consultants'
300,000
100%
services and
training
(4)
Operating costs
300,000
100%
(salaries,
operations and
maintenance)
(5)
Unallocated
230,000
TOTAL
1,500,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of SDR
55,000, may be made in respect of start-up costs for the PMCU, 
including professional development and training, computer invest- ments and the 
establishment of an electronic mail system on account of payments made for
expenditures under Part C.3 (e) of the Project before that date but after July 1, 
1993; (b) in respect of payments made for expenditures under Part A.1(a), (b) and (c), 
3(b), Part B.1 and 2 and Part C.2 of the Project, unless financial arrangements and 
technical specifications for grant investments, satisfactory to the Trustee, have been
concluded; and
(c) in respect of payments made for expenditures under Part C.1 of the 
Project unless an agreement, satisfactory to the Trustee, between the Recipient and
the European Trust for Natural and Cultural Wealth in Prague specifying the procedures
for administering said Part C.1 of the Project has been concluded.
SCHEDULE
2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to protect and strengthen forest and related
ecosystem biodiversity in the Project Area through the protection of three
ecosystems-zones, the support of three transnational biodiversity protection networks, 
and the development of systems of financially sustainable biodiversity protection.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modification
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:
Biodiversity Protection Program
1.
Management of Key Ecosystems
(a)
Establishment by the Nature Conservation Department of the Ministry of 
Environment and Forestry Department of the Ministry of Agriculture of a joint
landscape ecological management team for each national park from the Project Area and
surrounding forest ecosystems.
(b)
Establishment of a scientific advisory group to share current advances in 
conservation biology, restoration ecology and forestry and current concepts of
Page  7
sustainable forest resource management
.
(c)
Development by the Nature Conservation Department of the Ministry of 
Environment and Forestry Department of the Ministry of Agriculture of a joint
cooperative strategic plan providing for first priority to the natural restoration and
long-term maintenance of the Project Area and surrounding forest ecosystems.
(d)
Application of modern concepts of population genetics and ex situ 
conservation in the restoration of natural plant communities.
(e)
Implementation of pilot program for alpine meadow management at Krkonose.
(f)
Implementation of pilot program of wetland restoration at P
álava.
2.
Development of Community Support
(a)
Construction of a research and education center at Pálava.
(b)
Enhancement of interpretation and education facilities at Sumava.
(c)
Development of environmental education and public awareness strategies at 
Krkonose.
3.
Wildlife Research and Management
(a)
Carrying out of a wildlife management program at Sumava.
(b)
Carrying out of applied research in wildlife management at Krkonose.
(c)
Carrying out of a breeding program for Capercaille Grouse.
Part B:
Conservation Program
1.
Preparation of Sustainable Development Strategies.
Adoption of a land-use management planning program.
2.
Carrying Capacity and Revenue Mechanisms.
Examination for determination of appropriate carrying capacities of selected
environments and examination of the mechanisms, institutional, legal and practical
arrangements to use economic measures to maintain carrying capacity at an acceptable
level.
3.
Demonstration Projects
(a)
Development of environmentally sustainable viticulture at Pálava.
(b)
Development of model agriculture programs.
Part C:
Institutional Infrastructure Improvement Program
1.
NGO Small Grants Program
Establishment of the Office of the European Trust for Cultural and Natural
Wealth in Prague to administer and evaluate an in-country NGO biodiversity competitive 
grants program.
2.
Computerization, monitoring and data management for environmental programs.
3.
Infrastructure Improvement
(a)
Carrying out of pre-feasibility studies on treatment and reduction of 
waste water at Sumava.
(b)
Strengthening of infrastructure for management of environmental programs 
at Sumava.
(c)
Development of the administrative infrastructure at Pálava.
(d)
Development of monitoring infrastructure at Krkonose.
Page  8
(e)
Strengthening of Project management through the establishment of the 
PMCU, the Project Scientific Committee and the Regional Coordinating Offices.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June
30, 1996.
SCHEDULE
3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
1.
Civil works estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $400,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Trustee.
2.
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $300,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations from at least three
suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the
"Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the 
Guidelines), in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Trustee.
3.
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $5,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $200,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations from at least three
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Trustee.
4.
Goods of a proprietary nature estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed the equivalent of $200,000 may be purchased from suppliers on the basis of 
negotiated contracts in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Trustee.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
The Recipient shall employ environmental and other consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Trustee. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Trustee on the basis of the
"Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE
4
Implementation Program
1.
The Department of Nature Conservation in the Ministry of the Environment shall 
be responsible for overall coordination of the Project.
2.
The PMCU shall be responsible for implementing the technical and scientific 
activities of the Project to be carried out in the Project Area and shall coordinate
said activities with the Regional Coordinating Offices. This unit shall be staffed by 
the Project coordinator, a deputy coordinator/accounts specialist and an 
administrative assistant.
SCHEDULE
5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph
1
of Schedule
1
to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the GET Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1
to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $200,000 
Page  9
to be withdrawn from the GET Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph
3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph
4
of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the
Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee 
from the GET Grant Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GET Grant Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered
into by the Trustee pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GET Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount
of the GET Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph
2
of this Schedule; or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account
(or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified.
Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee
into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
Page  10
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee,
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GET Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
