Docwumt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCUAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6141
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1272T/1282-1-PH)
April 11, 1986
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted disttibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
BDC      Bliss Development Corporation
DBP      Development Bank of the Philippines
DPH      Department of Public Highways
DPWTC    Department of Public Works, Transportation and Communications
GOP      Government of Philippines
GSIS     Government Service Insurance System
HSDC     Human Settlements Development Corporation
HSRC     Human Settlements Regulatory Commission
MERALCO  Manila Electrical Authority
MHS      Ministry of Human Settlements
MMA      Metropolitan Manila Area
MMC      Metropolitan Manila Commission
MPWH     Ministry of Public Works and Highways
MWSS     Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
NCSO     National Census and Statistical Office
NEDA     National Economic Development Authority
NHA      National Housing Authority
NHC      National Housing Corporation
NHMFC    National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation
PNB      Philippine National Bank
SSS      Social Security System
TFDDO    Tondo Foreshore Dagat-Dagatan Development Office
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                            =  39.37 inches (in)
1 square meter (sq m)                  =  10.8 square feet (st ft)
1 cubic meter (cu m)                   =  35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)                       =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)             =  0.386 square mile (sq ml)
1 centimeter (cm)                      =  0.39 inch (in)
1 square centimeter (sq cm)            =  0.155 square inch (sq in)
1 hectare (ha)                         =  10,000 square meters (sq m) or
2.47 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)                            =  1.057 quarts liquid or 0.25 US gal-
lon (gal) or 0.908 quart dry (qt)
1 liter per capita per day (lpcd)    =  0.26 US gallon per capita (gcd)



FOR OMCIAL USE ON*L
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. DC 20433
U.S A.
OMe n DlvttewrelhfA
Opuatu~ Ewakii
April 11, 1986
MFMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVR DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Philippines
Manila Urban Development Project
(Loan 1272T/1282-1-PH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Pro.ject
Completion Report on Manila Urban Development Project (Loan 1272T/1282-1-PH)
prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. Under the modified
system for project performance auditing, further evaluation of this project
by the Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
'~~~~~~~~~~
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnace
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFF!CIAL USE ONLY
IHILIPPINES
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Loan 1272T/1282-1-PH)
*                                    PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE DATASHEET  *..................................................        i
BASIC DATA SHEET ..........
HIGHLIGHTS . .........                                                       iii
I. INTRODUCTION
A.  Sectoral Context                                                   1
B.  Conditions Leading to the Project  ......................          2
c.  Principal Report Sources                                           2
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A.  Origin and Background                                              2
B.  Preparation and Appraisal                                          4
C.  Project Objectives                                                 4
D.  Project Description                                                5
III.  MAJOR RESULTSC 7...............                                         7
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
A.  Start-Up                                                          14
B.  Implementation Schedule                                           14
C. Costs                                                              18
D.  Disbursements                                                     20
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A.  Development Ctsts                                                 20
B.  Sale Prices/Affordabilityc.....                                   23
C.  Cost   A     loain26
D.  Tenure, Sales and Colllections...                                 26
E.  Infrastructure Turnover and Maintenance**#***************    29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii -
Page No.
VI.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
A.  National Housing Authority (NHA)          ........................    29
B.  Ministry of Public Works and Highways (MPWH) .............    34
C.  Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS) ......    34
D.  The Role of TondoCommunity..............................    35
E.  Performance of Contractors and Consultants...............       36
F.  Performance of the Bank  ...............        ........... .    36
VII. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION               ..............    37
VIII.  CONCLUSIONS
A.  Achievement of Objectives.......................,........       39
B. Loan Covenants................... ................... .....    40
C* Lessons41.......,..                                              41
ANNEXES
A.  Principal Report Sources.. ..................... ........ ..    46
B.  Comparison of Appraisal and Current Project Costs........    48
C.  Schedule of Disbursements ......... * * * .......... .          51
D.  Compliance with Loan Covenants ...........................      52
E.  Traffic Management Component.............................    53
F.  Computerized Traffic Signals in Bangkok and Manilao.......    56
Go Studies                                                          56
H.  Housing Agencies in the Philippines................... ..       57
I. NHA Organization 1975-1980            .. .....                   59
J.  Development Cost/Monthly Charge ..     .      ...... .6......2......*    62
K. Cost Allocation. ................. .. . .. .....                 64
L.  Turnover (Resales) Among Tondo Residents.................    67
M. Borrower's                            Cmet .............................. 69
FIGURES
Figure 1 - Implementation Schedule - Expected and Actual .....    15
Figure 2 - Disbursement Profile..............................    21



PHILIPPINES
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Loan 1272T/l2a2--7Z)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This report presents the results of a review of the Manila Urban
Development Project which was implemented pursuant to a Loan of US$32.0 mil-
lion (including a US$10.0 million Third Window Intermediate Term Loan) to the
Government of the Republic of the Philippines. The Loan covered the estimated
foreign exchange costs of the project and was in part onlent to executing
agencies on the same terms as the Bank Loan and in part passed on as equity
contributions. The balance of the project costs (US$33.03 million estimated
at appraisal) was to be provided by the National Housing Authority (NHA)
(US$19.17 million), by the Metropolitan Water Works and Sewerage System (MWSS)
(US$0.26) and by Government (US$13.6 million). The Loan was approved on May
27, 1976, and became effective on December 9, 1976, five months later. The
original closing date of September 30, 1981 was extended to September 30,
1983. Further extension to December 31, 1985 was required after a
supplemental loan of US$10.5 million, including the capitalized front-end fee
of $26,185, was made in March 1984, (under the Bank's Program of Special
Assistance to Member Countries 1983-84) to help finance cost overruns for the
major roads and bridges component.
At the time of the preparation of the Project Completion Report
(PCR), all project components were complete except for the major roads and
bridges component which was delayed because of right-of-way and foundation
problems. These problems have been resolved and construction is being carried
out satisfactorily. Savings are expected due to two devaluations which
occurred after approval of the Supplemental Loan.
Attached is the PCR prepared by the Urban and Water Supply Division
of the East Asia and Pacific Regional Projects Department (AEPUW). The PCR is
based on the Bank's files and information supplied by the implementing agen-
cies, by consultants and by a project completion report prepared by the
National Housing Authority, the Ministry of Public Works and Highways (MPWH)
and the Traffic Engineering and Management (TEAM) Office.
In accordance with the revised project performance reporting pro-
cedures this report has been read in the Operations Evaluation Department (OED)
but the project was not audited by OED staff. The draft Completion Report
was sent to the Borrower for comments. Comments received have been reflected
(where appropriate) in the text or footnoted.



- U1 -
PIMJC7 CO)LtflO8 RIPDl? S51C DAtA SNtt
Ptl.v6trOs - 2an.lp Urban ftvlo~nt Pro1ct (Loan 1272-t1/122-1-PR)
Aprtatial             Acttul oM
*gmttion           ter nt *0tt4t.
total Project cost (USS stilta)                                            60.0                  91.8
cost oUftrOm (U)33
LoOv/C?tdtt inont (C ooltilton' O.
Sapp1rnaternto" *aa
Datellae4                                                                  .                    . dx
C   anc tlad to
Ibutdtwo to 
atenoao  Satet cofatorn                                _                                          U7 U**  S
prrotttan of Tie  Ow rru  (S)-75   T                                                                      )
teooat Otto d   Won 0)2-
tFntttattoal P.rt*tu& S4tt2ytoto"
physted/S9tz  tapct                                                     Uttafteton              CcSln
__EA7v __ s                L    ni  fll  fl
n17    n78    n7z7    n8D    rTl    F"2          F3    W-    tz85
Apptatal *stl nts  (S$ sUttion)        8.25   ___   2          1         .00  (31.00) t.o3220 I14
Cc-al (USt dlilton)                           +              o           .I 9 . 3 13 69  + ) -23   It 24 a 3:.36- § It
ctna l as S of *rStal                   2TD
Date of ft*l dlsbuors    t ntt   -/  /     
Proftle (ACtal as t of otrtsnaI 32 a)                       3      4                                   I ex
Sask-od.s ..rba  profile                -                      _
PRSCT mmt
OrtIlnsl                                    Atutl o0
amF                                               PlD Rnltctooa                              tt. Aectut
first MIetion in nle of tt-*tUbla                           /8110..2 I                                   IIO
G    .v1_nt's ApplItctoa ot/io2n
waoTttttons                                               i7.U2Ill 76  i5v7
bard Aponval                                                    6                                     Ut77f/ l
LaoiaCr.dtt Actnt  at*                                   -i6ff77                 /                    0/7
-ff.cstlnosoe Date
Cbo.14g Dt.                                                                    a                     1/311/85/
Uorrnr                                                             0oorpno   ot  rbO itc of the Pbillogie S
Fiseal T  r of Borrower                                                      19an 19 . n I-ce It lb
followon Project Now.                                                    Ut    0,9 1   nt
ina8ICTdit Number                                                 oan I67-Pr
mount (USS aillion)                                               32.
toaC/ordtlt A3rU_nt nst*                                         *
'ILSo "ATA
No. of        w. of                          0nt* of
1es                                muibntS. Tar     nk-         pareone       Nrt
Identtficatton                        0711       /73I                     5            15            08120/73
Prpratont7s
vraparstlon                                                                                          ?(7-ft  
trpa ratio                             4 *
preparatIon                                      24 :i6i74
PraratIon                                                      T          Ys                         I2'lt 74
rpePrtat2on                                0
Preappraisal                           0            2
Appraleal                                     0                           V 3ST1.
post AnarateDl                               -                                                                I_
Saoptdclon T                            0771 1
a.perfatdon 11                          1                  21
0UperOIatoC 111 Ito                                         5_t_
Sper iio   TV 012
S596MaD"oO V                              0-11/09T77
Sap tyt.IoI   VI                                                          6
Sup r"laon Vil                          0     2                       _
Suparst too VtIl - 2I0 0IALISO
Soparrtslnt IX
5upotston                                                X/1141
Supsr,tsI8o S6 XI
S.up . tat   U!8                                                          2
SopartItlnn XPt°I1271/V                                                   I             Ie
Sup rtvtfoa7 -09t3t                                07      i!l9AG
tcperVIOtO  XV                      0 
Supar7ldon XVI 
Sopeta'on XVIt                                                                                           v
Total                                                _                           3
Total Istlsat*d VW  (fitld)                                           56
Total Acttoa S"  (field)
As*r4r* 8P  Coaf. (ftold) 1971-84
Wef of Curvare (abbroetatto.)                                                              htltniltne Pat* CP)
ApptUsel taet Average:  1976                                   Fahange tate:  0SSI.00 '         7.00
Ict*roottng -aro rAertaS     1971-83                                         rtsV00  * Rncd    ! ^''-
Compl*tatn Year:  1984                                                        USSI.00 * Nafted 1      A-t0 . 1   1
S uSpm*mtary loa0  of US$10.5 sliltoo   s ad,* on Pebroary 6. 1984, pIth dooure axhctad 12131185.
prationsly IT July I-Jn. 50.
learn 1'av r Stotambar 2, 1975.
7 Sxcat tor  _pr  andat oSpl s eator loon doe 12/85.
_ of -SIRO  ^- :nclor. .                 :tII   d  A.- .0 tO  -   .pla



- iii -
PHILIPPINES
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Loan 1272T/1282-1-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Highlights
1.        The project was set again-t a backdrop of severe service defici-
encies in Metropolitan Manila and explosive growth in squatter settlement.
Tondo Foreshore was the largest slum in Metro Manila and one of the largest
and most politically volatile in Asia, with over 180,000 persons in 17,500
structures living under exceptionally poor sanitary conditions. Government's
response to the problem had been a series of ad hoc projects to relocate
squatters to the distant periphery of the city with few employment opportuni-
ties or services. The inherernt defects of this approach led to the conception
of in-situ upgrading as an alternative.
2.        Upgrading of Tondo Foreshore was the centerpiece of the project.
For the Bank. this was fundamentally a demonstration of a more efficient
approach to housing/servicing problems and a pragmatic alternative to
resettlement, while for the National Housing Authority (NHA), enhancing the
quality of life for Tondo residents constituted a primary -- and fully compa-
tible -- objective. Residents were to be provided with security of tenure and
basic services for which they were to pay the full cost of on-site services
and some portion of the value of the land. The project represented the first
of its kind by the Philippine Government and the newly-created NHA, and was
one of the first financed by the Bank. Additional objectives incLuded intro-
duction of traffic control measures in Manila, an experimental small business
loan program, construction of several major roads and bridges, and the
strengthening of the NHA and the Metropolitan Manila Commission (MMC).
3.        Nine years were required to complete physical works rather than the
four optimistica'lly anticipated at appraisal, a slippage of about 75%. Dis-
bursements similarly lagged, but followed an overall profile close to that of
most first generation urban projects. Since both the Bank and the Borrower
lacked the seasoning of actual experience with this type of project, appraisal
expectations and schedules were overly optimistic.
4.        Delays were partly attributable to the sheer magnitude and
complexity of this first upgrading effort in combination with its experimental
nature, as well as to diff.culties with survey work, subsoil conditions,
resettlement, "reblocking" (in-situ repositioning of houses), work quality,
contract administration, community intervention and coordination.
5.        Total costs were expected at appraisal to be P 488 (US$65) million
and actually were P 974 (US$92) million. The peso increase of nearly 100%
exceeded the dollar increase of about 40%, reflecting the peso's sinking
value. Major cost increases occurred on the roads and bridges component
(230%), sewer outfall (227%), and Tondo upgrading (100%). Increases were



- iv -
caused by the delays associated with project startup, higher than expected
land acquisition and reclamation costs, the petroleum price increases of
1978/79, and the lack of detailed design and engineering on major civil works
at appraisal, raising doubts about the accuracy of the appraisal estimates
themselves.
6.        Unit development costs were expected at appraisal to be about P 168
(US$22) per square meter and actually rose to P 620 (US$58), a fourfold peso
increase. This was because land and infrastructure costs doubled, and the
protracted construction period significantly increased markups for administra-
tion and interest during construction. Substantial cross-subsidies were to be
applied to residential lots from profits of P 118 million on commercial and
industrial properties and payments from other public agencies. The resulting
net sale price was expected to be about P 52 per square meter or P 2,600 for
an average 50 square meter lot.
7.        Cross subsidies from commercial/industrial sales were a disappoint-
ment. Though in theory rational and creative, in practice weakening demand
resulting from the Philippines economic decline eroded prices for commercial/
industrial lots, and payments from other government agencies never material-
ized at all. Saleable land also shrank by about 20%. As a result the P 118
m,l1ion expected profit dropped to P 37 million.
8.        This combination of factors would have resulted in a sale price of
over ten times the expected figure -- P 577 per square meter, or P 28,850 per
average lot by the simplified SAR single price formula. In the event, a split
price was implemented in which the costs of water, sewerage and electricity
were transferred to MWSS and the electrical authority MERALCO to be recovered
indirectly through normal tariffs. Land costs and remaining infrastructure
were to be paid directly through lot mortgages. However, the lot sale price
was set prematurely in 1978 at P 95 per square meter (P 4,760 per lot). This
was done with Bank concurrance and in response to community demands to know
the expected price and monthly charge resulting from upgrading. Completion
occurred only four years later, following considerable further price
escalation. The P 95 price actually charged was about a third of what it
should have been.
9.        The ultimate doubling of the actual sale price (from 52 estimated at
appraisal to 95) did not erode the project's affordability, since incomes in
Tondo rose nearly threefold from project start-up in 1975 to completion in
1982. At appraisal, about 85% of Tondo residents were expected to be able to
afford the project, and at completion over 95% could afford it based on the
same assumptions. In fact, the subsidy resulting from the premature estab-
lishment of the sale price was unnecessary to assure affordability. Fully 90%
of residents could have afforded the P 300 per square meter charge which
should have been made based on actual costs.
10.       At appraisal beneficiaries were expected to pay for 82% of total
serviced site/upgrading costs and they actually covered 65%. The NHA paid the
difference in the form of a capital subsidy totalling about P 80 (US$7.5)
million.



ll.       Cost recovery has been singularly the weakest aspect of project
implementation. Start-up of collections was significantly delayed in Dagat
Dagatan, and began about a year after completion of physical works in Tondo.
Actual collections are only about 56% of the amount expected, but are improv-
ing following a major cost recovery drive in 1984.  Collections on the total
Bank-assisted portfolio rose from P 13 million in 1983 to about P 37 million
in 1984, a nearly threefold increase. Total NHA receipts rose from P 65 mil-
lion to P 101 million over the same period -- a 55% increase.
12.       Turnover of completed infrastructure to MWSS, MPWH and the Citv of
Manila proved another major headache. Legal agreements were vague on this
matter and construction delays and the attendant cost increases led to
deferrals of up to five years in turning over completed works. The last year
has shown notable improvement and presently about three quarters of works have
been turned over. Maintenance, however, continues to be problematic,
exacerbated by current economic stringencies.
13.       The NHA's institutional performance was strong in some respects and
weak in others. Extensive community involvement and consultation was one of
the most noteworthy features of the project, and but also introduced consid-
erable complexities and delays. The Authority made many mistakes, but learned
from its experience, adjusting its approach as it proceeded. As the first
upgrading project in the Philippines, the project's institutional objectives
did not go much beyond building NHA's production capacity -- which was
achieved; and a viable cost recovery performance -- which was not yet as of
the date of this report. At project inception, the NHA had virtually no track
record in this type of operation. It is now the only agency producing housing
affordable to the lower two thirds of the urban population, and reported peak
annual production of over 18,000 units in 1981 and 16,000 in 1982, represent-
ing about half of total production by the Government system. Financial per-
formance has lagged physical performance and overall financial management has
been weak. The Authority's role within the sector altered substantially
during project implementation with the introduction in 1978 of the Ministry of
Human Settlement's six attendant agencies for housing finance, regulation and
production. Establishment of more effective coordination between these agen-
cies is a goal which Government needs to rigorously pursue if it expects to
develop a sound, high volume program of low-income housing.
14.       The Bank also gained valuable experience from this initial proj-
ect. Weak aspects of Bank performance involved project preparation deficien-
cies, inadequate briefing and high turnover of Bank staff, imbalance in super-
vision attention (greater attention to civil works, and inadequate attention
and lead time on land acquisition, mortgage documentation and collections
administration). Other major lessons include:
-    Tondo, as a "demonstration", was overly ambitious and overwhelmed
the NHA's fledgling capacities. (A smaller, less conspicious pilot,
however, would probably not have been politically acceptable);
-    Serious doubts have arisen about the viability of any large scale
housing program which must rely on expropriation as the primary
vehicle of land acquisiLion. The NHA is exploring market value land



- vi -
purchases and joint ventures with landowners in combination with
reduced infrastructure standards to preserve affordability for
future projects;
A revised pricing policy is under consideration to eliminate
premature pricing, remove cross-subsidies (though not differential
pricing), and plug the subsidies through which SEA's capital is
leaking;
Contract sizes initially exceeded local contracting capacities.
Contracts were terminated and split into smaller packages better
matched to local capacity. Contract supervision procedures were
also tightened (though scope exists for further improvement).
Earlier and more explicit agreements have been introduced for
turnover of completed infrastructure, and legal agreements
tightened.
15.       In conclusion, the project achieved all of its objectives except
that of financial replicability, on which the jury is still out. Upgrading of
Tondo was a highly ambitious goal that was successfully achieved in physical
and social terms. The slum community virtually transformed itself over ten
years into an upwardly mobile neighborhood without appearing to have evicted
the truly poor. Tondo has reaffirmed the assumption that if given security of
tenure and basic services, families will build their own housing, the quality
of which has surpassed even the most optimistic predictions. Tondo residents
were active participants in upgrading and have become property owners with a
stake in stability. Although still politically vocal, there is evidence of a
higher level of civic consciousnes and responsible citizenship in the area.
16.       The project successfully introduced an alternative to Government's
socially disruptive and expensive policy of wholesale slum clearance and
construction of relatively expensive, completed, contractor-built housing
unaffordable to the vast majority of urban residents. Over 44,000 structures
in slum communities have been upgraded since the project's inception.
Resettlement, however, has not halted. Government's present approach incor-
porates elements of both in-situ improvement and resettlement
17.       Upgrading and serviced sites have proven more cost effective than
previous approaches, as well physically and socially effective. Even with
substantial cost overruns, total development costs of P 28,850 for an average
lot were still only about a quarter of a typical "low-cost" contractor-built,
completed house.
18.       Premature pricing, and the low level of actual collections - the two
key elements of financial replicability - are the principal disappointments.
However, since collections are only recently underway, it will take some time
before an effective judgement can be rendered on this subject. Reason exists
for optimism that the collections problem will be effectively addressed by NHA
and that, with sustained effort, a reasonable degree of cost recovery can
eventually be achieved. This will be the focus of supervision work on
subsequent projects.



PHILIPPINES
MANIi.A URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1272T/1282-l-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION RESORT
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Sectoral Context
1.01      The Metropolitan Manila Area (MMA) had an estimated population in
1975 of 5.5 million (13% of the national total), with an average annual growth
of 5%. Projected at that rate of growth, greater Manila wotld have 23 million
people by the end of the century (30% of the Philippines' total population and
65X of its urban population). The reasons for locating the Bank's first
Philippines' urban project in the capital city were compelling. The MMA had
severe deficiencies in shelter, water supply, health and nutrition, public
transport and institutional capabilities. Approximately half of the
substandard dwelling units in the Philippines were in the MMA, and this meant
about 1.8 millior. persons living on unserviced lots with inadequate sanitation
facilities and health services, compounded by flooding and stagnant water.
Incidences of typhoid, cholera and other gastro-intestinal infections and
malnutrition had been rising noticeably since 1968.
1.02      The MMA had a larger area (870 km2), a larger population base and a
faster annual population growth rate than other urban areas in the Philip-
pines. It also had a higher unemployment rate than the national average (11%
in Manila compared to 7% nationally in 1971) and by far the worst housing con-
ditions in the country. While the proportion of the urban poor was about the
same in Manila as in other urban areas, Manila's poor was the largest concen-
trated poverty group in the Philippines.
1.03      Informal sector employment currently provides about 28% of Manila's
total - a relatively large proportion. One major reason for this is that from
1970 to 1980 real wages for both skilled and unskilled workers in Metro Manila
declined sharply to half their 1970 levels. Poverty would have therefore
increased, but families have supplemented formal earnings through increased
participation in the formal labor force as well as through private entrepre-
neurial activities. As a result, total household income actually rose (para
5.11) and evidence suggests poverty may have declined.
1.04      In transportation MMA was experiencing major problems.  Chronic
congestion had become a common condition because of population growth and
rapid growth in the number of private passenger vehicles. In 1975, the MMA
had about 325,000, or 42% of all motor vehicles registered in the Philippines,
of which 70% were private passenger vehicles. The situation was exacerbated
by the inefficient use of existing road capacity. Public transportation was
mostly provided by the private sector, which had beel. reducing investments in
vehicle maintenance and fleet renewal because of deteriorating financial
conditions and uncertainty about Government policy.
1.05      Many of these problems were aggravated by the organization of local
governments in the MMA which was not conducive to effective metropolitan-wide
planning or administration. Municipal government was fragmented into 32
jurisdictions. However, in November 1975, the Metropolitan Manila Commission
(MMC) was established to control and coordinate 17 of these jurisdictions
including the four cities of Manila, Quezon City, Pasay and Caloocan.



- 2 -
1.06      The only previous Bank operation in an urban sub-sector (water) had
been a loan to the National Waterworks and Sewerage Authority (NAWASA) in 1964
to expand and improve the water supply system serving Manila. Project
execution was slow and the financial covenants were not observed. That
project was completed after considerable delays in 1972. In the early 1970s,
with guidance from USAID, the Covernment made progress in organizing the water
sector, dissolving NAWASA and creating the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewer-
age System (MWSS), which was responsible for water supply and sewerage in the
Manila area, and the Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA) for the
provinc.al cities.  Four subsequent loans have been made for expanding
provincial water supply (Loans 1415 and 1710/Credit 920), and for Manila Water
Supply (Loan 1615) and Sewerage (Loan 1814).
B. Conditions Leading to the Project
1.07      The largest slum in Metropolitan Manila and one of the largest and
most politically active in Asia was the Tondo Foreshore, the upgrading of
which was the centerpiece of this first urban project. It covered almost
180 ha and had a population of 180,000 persons (27,700 families in 17,500
structures). Median family income was about US$575 per year, about 60% of
median income in the MMA. Tondo's level of environmental sanitation was very
low because of the high population density, inadequate water and sewerage
facilities and poor drainage. Infant mortality was about 130 per 1,000 live
births per year, 80X of pre-school children were undernourished, and 30% of
the adult femu.le population suffered from anemia. In 1974, there were about
500 hospital admissions for cholera in Tondo and 707 deaths attributed to
tuberculosis. Government's response to the problem of slum and squatter areas
had been a series of ad hoc projects generally involving relocation to distant
areas with few employment opportunities and inadequate services, especially
transportation which was beyond the financial capabilities of the relocated
population. The inherent defects of this approach led to the conception of
in-situ upgrading as an alternative/complement to resettlement.
C. Principal Report Sources
1.08      The principal documents used in preparation of this report, other
than supervision reports and general correspondence, are summarized in
Annex A.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION, AND APPRAISAL
A. Origin and Background
2.01      The project was first mentioned in the Bank's files in August 1972,
and in October/November of that year an urban sector mission visited Manila.
Project identification involved the review of a long list of major infra-
structure projects. The Tondo Foreshore upgrading was selected as the point
of concentration because of its size and critical importance and also to
demonstrate an alternative to Government's expens ve and ineffective slum



relocation policies. The 1974 aerial photo survey of the Tondo Foreshore
served as the basis for a feasibility study carried out by a Government task
force on housing and urban development established under the Office of the
President with technical personnel from several agencies. In July 1974, a
socio-economic and physical survey was undertaken which detailed the squalid
conditions of Tondo.  By October, the Tondo Foreshore/Dagat Dagatan
Development Authority (TFDDA) was established under Presidential Decree (PD)
No. 570 to implement a comprehensive development plan for Tondo, including a
nearby self-sustaining resettlement site (Dagat-Dagatan). With the formal
creation of the National Housing Authority (NHA) in 1975 to consolidate the
various offices and six agencies which were then responsible for housing and
resettlement issues, the TFDDA was absorbed into the newly organized agency
and was renamed Tondo Foreshore and Dagat-Dagatan Development Office (TFDDO).
2.02      The ensuing Project was the first effort at comprehensive slum
upgrading and sites and services by the Philippine Government and the first
upgrading project of the newly created NHA. It was also one of the first such
projects financed by the Bank. The upgrading approach included both in-situ
improvement and resettlement of families displaced by project works as well as
other public works noted below in para. 2.03. The relocation site was Dagat-
Dagatan, a 400 ha site of reclaimed fishponds three kilometers away from the
upgrading area. Because this was an entirely new approacfi for Government, as
well as for the Bank, trial and error helped to identify areas of weakness
elaborated on in other sections of this report. Arrangements were made for
MWSS to provide assistance in improving water supply and sewerage for Tondo
Foreshore and Dagat-Dagatan. In executing these infrastructure works amidst
very high density and a politically sensitive population which was also very
skeptical, the NHA w;as aware of the delicate nature of its community develop-
ment work and took steps to ensure that residents of Tondo Foreshore played a
reasonable role in planning and approving important details of the work par-
ticularly with regard to the realignment of streets, utilities and houses - an
exercise referred to as "reblocking" (see para 3.06(d)).
2.03      Considerable development was taking place in 1975/76 in the area
immediately adjoining Tondo Foreshore. As a result, resettlement needs were
high. The International Port to the southwest was being expanded by the
Philippine Port Authority (PPA) with German (KFW) assistance. The first phase
of port improvements required the urgent relocation of approximately 1,300
squatter families.  Some 2,500 more families lyould have to be relocated to
clear the entire International Port complex.-   In addition, reclamation and
construction of a fisheries port at nearby Navotas was nearing completion and
would require the relocation of another several thousand squatters. It had
therefore become the responsibility of PPA to find suitable accommodation for
nearly 7,000 families affected by all these works. An arrangement was made
with the NHA to resettle at least the first 1,500 households from the
International Port expansion into the Dagat-Dagatan Phase I site, as well as
/1   Figures represent appraisal estimates.



- 4 -
another 700 affected by construction of the R-10 and C-2 roads, for which DPH
was responsible which were ultimately accommodated in the KFW-financed Phase
II area. A further 500 families were expected to be displaced from Tondo
upgrading,21 (about 3%), brinqing the total households to be resettled under
this project to about 2,700,- or about 40% of the total required. The rest
were to be accommodated by the KWF's Phase II.
B. Preparation and Appraisal
2.04      Project preparation was carried out by the various Government
agencies - primarily NHA with assistance from MWSS, the Department of Highways
(DPH), and the Department of Public Works, Transportation and Communications
(DPWTC). Assistance was also rendered by various short-term consultants and
supplemented by guidance from frequent Bank missions. The initial GOP devel-
opment plan in December 1974 would have relocated 70% of the families in Tondo
to distant areas and would have required high levels of subsidy. After a
review by a Bank mission in February 1975, a completely different approach was
taken. This involved minimal relocation and then only to a nearby site in
Dagat-Dagatan where low-cost sites and services were to be provided. More
appropriate levels of service and cost recovery were proposed. These were
reviewed with community groups who welcomed the new approach, particularly by
ZOTO and Ugnayan, two of the more politically active groups. The project was
appraised in July/August 1975 and negotiations took place in March 1976.
C. Project Objectives
2.05      The project was fundamentally a demonstration to establish the
viability of a new and alternative approach to demolition based on in-situ
upgrading and serviced sites. This was clearly the central objective for the
Bank. For NHA, upgrading the quality of life for Tondo residents was the
primary objective. Though slightly different, these objectives were
compatible. Both required addressing the Tondo's basic shelter, sanitation,
health, employment and infrastructure deficiencies. In addition, the urban
transport and institutional problems in Metro Manila described in paras. 1.01-
1.07 were to be dealt with. The project was highly ambitious, outlining
objectives in five distinct areas:
(a) Upgrading/Serviced Sites: To demonstrate that upgrading in situ was
an appropriate alternative to resettlement, and to provide squatters
with security of tenure and adequate urban services in such a way
that beneficiaries could pay for the full cost of on-site services
and some portion of the value of the land.
2/   About 2,000 lots were to be generated in Dagat-Dagatan and 1,000 infill
lots in Tondo, so that resettlement committments fully absorbed new site
development.
3/   p. (vii) of the SAR.



- 5 -
With respect to serviced sites, to provide a lower unit cost
solution for new housing by means of serviced lots with full cost
recovery;
(b) Traffic: To focus on low-cost, high-return investments in urban
transport with urgently needed traffic control measures and
equipment for the efficient use of existing infrastructure;
(c) Health: To integrate comprehensive health, nutrition and other
social services with physical improvements in water supply, sewerage
and drainage;
(d) Employment: To experiment with employment creation by means of
supervised credit programs; and
(e)  Institutions:  To strengthen two new institutions, the National
Housing Authority (NHA) and the Metropolitan Manila Commission
(MMC), by providing technical assistance and in particular to
increase significantly NHA's capacity to plan and implement similar
slum upgrading projects in other parts of the Philippines.
D. Project Description
2.06      The Project was to include:
(a) Tondo Foreshore Upgrading. Upgrading a 180 ha area, with an expec-
ted poutlation of about 180,000 persons living in 17,500 struc-
tures,-' by providing basic urban infrastructure and health,
education and other welfare services, materials for house improve-
ment and cottage industry loans, about 1,000 new serviced lots and
core units on now vacant land, and about 15 ha of land for indus-
trial and commercial use;
(b) Dagat-Dagatan. Development of a 40 ha residential community near
Tondo for some 20,000 persons by providing basic infrastructure and
health, education and other services, materials for house
improvement and cottage industry loans. About 2,000 residential
lots would be developed with simple sanitary core units for lease
with options to purchase by families displaced from the Tondo
Foreshore, and about 3.5 ha of land for industrial/commercial use.
Offsite infrastructure related to the two preceeding components was
also included. This principally involved (a) rehabilitation of the
4/   The area was later reduced to 137 ha.  Expected population after
improvement was 160,000 persons and 15,000 structures. This implies
demolition of 2,500 structures as opposed to the 500 units referenced in
other sections of the SAR (see para. 2.03).



existing Tondo Sewerage Pumping Station, (b) construction of a new
outfall sewer to replace the existing outfall, which had deterio-
rated to the point of being inadequate for the efficient and sani-
tary discharge of sewage flows from the Tondo Foreshore, and (c)
construction of stabilization ponds and temporary (above ground)
water mains at Dagat-Dagatan;
(c) Major Roads and Bridges. Construction of 5.4 km of the R-10 road
between C-1 and Dagat-Dagatan, construction of 1.7 km of circumfer-
ential roads C-2 and C-3 and construction of 0.4 km of an access
road to the Dagat-Dagatan resettlement site and two bridges related
to these works. This access road would also facilitate traffic
movement out of the International Port Area;
(d) Traffic Improvement. Construction of junction improvements, road
markings and footpaths, bus shelters, city-wide signals, signal-
linking equipment and mobile radios to improve the use of existing
infrastructure; and
(e) Technical Assistance. Consultants (about 46 man-years) to be
retained for ten distinct tasks involving:
o    detailed design/engineering and construction supervision of the
physical works in Tondo and Dagat-Dagatan by NHA and MWSS, for
major roads/bridges by DPH, and for the DPH traffic component;
o    organization, management and financial planning for the NHA;
o    feasibility studies to develop a second urban project;
o    a Metropolitan Manila transport/land-use study by the DPWTC;
o    studies and training to be carried out by DPWTC on behalf of
MMC involving:
-    a fiscal base study;
-    a cadastral survey for Metropolitan Manila to update the
existing survey which covered only half the area;
-    a municipal services study; and
-    design and implementation of an MMC staff training
program;
o    a national transportation investment plan for 1977-80 and a
national transport systems study by DPWTC; and
o    strengthening the planning capabilities of the various
Government transportation agencies.



-7-
III. MAJOR RESULTS
Tondo Foreshore Upgrading
3.01      The project successfully introduced an alternative to Government's
socially disruptive and expensive policy of wholesale slum clearance, demoli-
tion and wholesale relocation to distant resettlement areas. In situ slum
u-grading has been accepted and expanded through subsequent Bank and inter-
nally financed projects. In the early 80's fully 415 Areas for Priority
Development (APDs) in Metro Manila alone were identified for in-situ improve-
ment. The NHA's Ninth Anniversary Performance Review (1984) indicates it has
upgraded over 44,000 structures in slum communities of Metro-Manila, Cagayan
de Oro, Cebu and Davao since 1975, of which Tondo represented only 13,000 or
about a third. Production peaked at over 9,000 units per year in 1980-1982.
3.02      Resettlement, however, has not halted.  Simultaneously over 63,000
families have been relocated for a variety of reasons or 40% more than
received in-situ upgrading. The NHA indicates all resettlement constitutes
legitimate removal from dangerous esteros, embankments and immediate develop-
ment sites for Government-funded projects. Questions have been raised how-
ever, about how much may have been motivated by aesthetic or other purposes.
Thus, overt demolition appears to have been replaced by a blend of both in
situ upgrading and continued resettlement.
3.03      Perhaps the most striking achievement of the Tondo project is the
successful demonstration of the viability of self-help and progressive
improvement. Secure tenure and provision of basic services did, in fact,
elicit significant private investment and dramatic improvements in existing
housing. Before and after photos of Tondo (see photographs) show the rtmark-
able transformation of the communities' physical appearance over a ten-year
period from a virtual slum to a middle income neighborhood. Project
improvements did not, however, seem to drive out the poor. Shanties and very
modest structures still stand beside elaborate and obviously expensive
homes. Predictably a proportion of original residents have cashed in their
windfall profits and sold out. Turnover, however, appears to be somewhat
lower than in other slums in Metro Manila (20% vs. 27%) with about a third of
those moving out also registering property sales. The extensive amount of
mixed development would seem to reinforce the conclusion that turnover has not
been excessive. Owners of improved houses frequently sublet, which can
enhance household income to the extent that it more than defrays mortgage
costs. Though costs including markups virtually tripled, incomes rose by
about the same amount from an estimated median of P435 in Tondo at project
compietion, to P1,200. Over 90% of residents could therefore afford a minimum
30 m lot.
3.04      The success of the Tondo slum upgrading program validated some of
the basic assumptions of the Bank's approach to slum problems, specifically
that security of tenure and adequate infrastructure are much more important
responsibilities of Government than housing construction itself. When these



- 8 -
PHILIPPINES
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tondo Foreshore Upgrading
GIa C"eudinco V .1*ea
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MW O. is.' e., hf.
It Oq_Aii. dO.,
Tondo at the start and after upgrading. Note the                                                    .
near total reconstruction of many homes and the                                                    -    .,
realignment (reblocking) of the rest to accommo-  __
date roads and services
Before upgrading, calinage was exceedingly poor and catwalks traversed sections of Tondo where stagnant water was fouled with
uncollected garbage. Without secure tenure, residents had little incentive to invest in housing. Homes were consequently of very low
quality. Population density was high, making work difficult
-S  -';'' --.



Re-nocking 0noivea pn,scai', 4rirg and repositioning a large  Work proceeded under crowded conditions and often \h.
number of structures and waS Ca)rred out by the community   inches of house foundations
Expansion beg-in almost immediately  Over 90% of homes were improved. with 12% fully rebuilt Most structures are now double S1 Y\- ond
srTial businesses thrive aiong momDir roads



-10 -
TONDO AFTER
Tondo has reaffirmed that if given secure tenure and basic services, familieswill
build their own housing, the quality of which was surpassed even the most
optimistic predictions. Upgrading has not pushed out the poor, whose modest
dwellings stand beside those of higher quality. An average capitol investment
of P20,000 by Government has elicited private investment of many times this
amount.
. ~ ~~~~~~~~~~                                                ,
4%_          IA                                              XA
_       R . '  --   .                             .   *         @ '~~~~~~~ 'i '~I
A!-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R
(j The most modest 30 m  house in Tondo stands beside the fancfest About 10% of residents aie
-  s  '  -          - ~~~~~employed in the Middle East.
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -~ .-N..
''I_  wt__T                                                         10
.~~~ -
91~~~ a'1X1   *s gn. .               A     .               i-*1



- 11 -
are provided, housing tends to follow as a private investment. In Tondo more
than 90% of the structures were improved to some degree, of which 12% were
completely new houses.
3.05      The upgraded infrastructure in Tondo dramatically improved the
environment and health standards. This was, to NHA, a more prominent objec-
tive than the policy changes which attracted Bank support. Low areas of
standing water have been filled, homes enjoy individual sanitation facilities,
walkways and streets make the area far more accessible, and schools, clinics,
Barangay centers, markets, and livelihood (job) centers are readily avail-
able. Crisp beiore and after health statistics are not readily available, and
if they were it would be difficult to establish causality between the project
and any demonstrated improvements. Nonetheless, environmental and health
conditions have visibly improved as a result of the project in the vast majo-
rity of the area.
3.06      Community participation seems to have been relatively successful.
This was due in large measure to the politically active character of the Tondo
population and the pivotal role of the barangay (neighborhood) as a secio-
political unit. It was also attributable to the special concern NHA devoted
to Tondo, although that approach has been criticized by some as being too
paternalistic. Despite frequent tension and conflict, barangay leaders turned
out to be effective partners in NHA's efforts to establish good working rela-
tionships with Tondo residents. They proved less reliable allies, however, in
cost recovery. Some have used the onset of maintenance problems as a politi-
cal wedge to actively undermine collection effort.
3.07      The NHA has had great difficulty extracting itself from maintenanL.
responsibilities in Tondo. General inadequacies in service maintenance levels
throughout the city have led the community to attempt to hold the Authority's
collections hostage to better service from line agencies, ministries and
municipalities. This remains an issue on which follow-up under subsequent
PCRs will be needed. Even at the time of writing several physical problems
still persist in selected segments of Tondo:
(a) water supply is still inadequate in sections of Tondo affecting the
functioning of sanitary cores, although 90% of house connections
have been made. Residents in these areas must still purchase water
in containers;
(b) the drainage system is much improved over pre 1975 levels. However,
serious flooding problems are occuring in this area as well as other
parts of Metro Manila as a result of a combination of factors;
(c) solid waste collection continues to be a major problem, as it is in
much of the rest of Metropol -n Manila.
Dagat-Dagatan Serviced Sites
3.08      From a physical and social perspective, Dagat-Dagatan, like Tondo,
was a striking success. Families rapidly progressed over a few years from
temporary shanties erected on site to substantial homes (see photos). Commer-



- 12 -
cial areas sprung to life and a vibrant community has evolved. This first
effort at serviced sites clearly demonstrated the viability of the self-help
principal as well as its acceptability to a low-income population.
3.09      Dagat-Dagatan successfully introduced new low cost, self-help
alternatives into Government's housing programs. Affordable serviced sites
with expandable sanitary cores were a new concept and a viable alternative to
overdesigned, subsidized multistory concepts as an affordable method of
addressing the shelter needs of low income families. These serviced sites and
upgrading programs are now incorporated into the 1983-1987 National Shelter
Program, though they represent only about 17% of the units. These are the
only programs which have proven afforable to the lower two-thirds of the
population. This remains a disappointment and it is hoped that subsequent
plans will begin to better address the match between supply and demand. Bank
sector work has focussed on this topic.
3.10      The first phase of Dagat-Dagatan was a distinct disappointment from
the standpoint of cost recovery. Though physically completed and occupied in
1978/79, collections had still not begun by the end of 1984, due largely to
delays in obtaining clear land title. The NHA had promised residents collec-
tions would not begin until tenure was issued. Expropriation of the land and
related court settlements dragged the process out for six years. Disputes
over the charging of core units exacerbated these problems. Only in early
1984 was clear title to the land obtained by NHA, five years after residents
had occupied the site. Though advance payments had been solicited, few were
received (8% in 1982 and 5% in 1983). Though collections were expected to be
difficult in view of these events, recent figures show considerable
improvement.
Major Roads and Bridges
3.11      Though still under construction at the time of writing, this
component is expected to be completed by the end of 1985 and to have substan-
tively fulfilled its objectives. Costs were well in excess of those expected
and, in retrospect, preparation work should have been further advanced on this
component before appraisal. Nonetheless, the economic rate of return is
expected to be very close to that anticipated.
Traffic
3.12      The traffic component is considered highly successful.  Physical
facilities were built within a reasonable time frame and achieved the results
expected including a high economic rate of return. The creation and develop-
ment of a respected Traffic Engineering and Management (TEAM) unit within
Government, that could effectively demonstrate the value of traffic management
within the time frame of a single project, was a major accomplishment. The
traffic management component has convincingLy established the merits and
replicability of traffic management to Government officials. The TEAM has
been funded with a second tranche of investments (with OECF assistance) which
will effectively double the number of modernized traffic signal systems in
Manila. Based on the success of traffic management measures in Manila,
traffic components have been included in the Regional Cites Development



- 13 -
Project (RCDP-Loan 2257-PH) and the Municipal Development Project (PREMIUMED-
Loan 2435-PH). Another traffic management unit has been established in Metro
Cebu, and a proposed Bank loan (Central Visayas Regional Project II) would
further the development of this unit.
3.13      The TEAM unit is still a separate project office not fully
integrated into Government, which exacerbates problems with interagency coord-
ination, budgeting, and staffing. Staff turnover remains high. Government
acknowledges these lingering problems and is beginning to address them. The
Bank is assisting in conjunction with the preparation of the proposed Metro
Manila U.^ban Transportation Project which will follow up on these longer-term
institutional issues.
Technical Assistance
3.14      The project's large technical assistance component (46 man years)
included seven studies and attempted to address the major problems confronting
Metropolitan Manila. Studies were carried out on Metro Manila's transport
services and land use; and on the MMC's fiscal base. A cadastral survey was
conducted to complete an earlier survey which covered only half the
Metropolitan Manila area, and a National Transport Investment Plan prepared by
DPWTC. Two additional studies led to the preparation and subsequent implemen-
tation of projects for upgrading (MMINUTE) and for upgrading and serviced site
development in regional cities. The final study amalgamated the records and
data of the several agencies which were merged to form the NHA. Much of the
technical assistance was directed to strengthening project implementation.
The MMC staff training program did not materialize except for a number of ad-
hoc short courses. Annex C summarizes completed studies and the Borrower's
view of their usefulness.
Livelihood
3.15      In addition to the five major project components, a small sum of
US$700,000 (1% of total project costs) was earmarked at appraisal for NHA to
experiment with small business ("livelihood") loans to create employment and
increase incomes among the target population. This component had mixed
results. The DBP and PNB extended loans totalling only about 35X of the
initial allocation and were ineffective in collections. As of June 1983,
average collection rates were just over 55% with PNB loans performing much
better (73%) than DBP (53%). In early 1984 NHA moved to take over the port-
folio from the initiating Banks, and has been extending similar loans from its
own funds. These loans appear to have effectively reached the very low income
groups and do seem to have stimulated some incremental economic activity.
However, they are still at an early stage in establishing any degree of finan-
cial viability, and results to date are disappointing. The NHA's records show
still lower collection levels than DBP and PNB, but are complicated by an
artificial assignment of payments received to the mortgage first, and business
loan last. Since many borrowers have taken mortgages, and home material loans
as well as business loans, accurate data on collections is not available. The
NHA acknowledges that the livelihood loans are not presently financially
viable, but that it is functioning under government directives to make such
loans. Questions have been raised as to whether these activities disperse
NHA's attention and ought to be discontinued to enable the Authority to better
focus on its mainstream functions. These questions will be addressed under



- 14 -
the PCRs on Urban II and III, both of which continued and expanded the liveli-
hood effort, as well as under preparation activities for subsequent loans.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
A. Start-up
4.01      Start-up was delayed to about the same degree as most of the Bank's
first generation urban projects by a combination of institutional, technical
and political factors. Reasons for delay included squatter relocation and
contracting problems, due largely to the inherently difficult nature of the
task, and to the lack of experience among both NHA and Bank staff. This had
been flagged at appraisal as an expected risk. The project was based entirely
on preliminary designs which contributed to its slow start. Survey work began
on schedule, but the difficult nature of the site and the inexperience of
surveyors resulted in errors. These were corrected and the surveyors
replaced. This, in turn, delayed site planning and contract tendering.
4.02      Tondo's political volatility required careful community consultation
and relations - a task vastly underestimated at appraisal. Misunderstandings
which arose after appraisal and continued through 1976 regarding the nature
and objectives of the project required extensive community education by NHA
before project implementation could proceed. The sheer size and socio-poli-
tical complexity of the Tondo undertaking was unprecedented, and the Authority
virtually felt its way through this initial period, unaided by any truly
experienced guidance from either its consultants or the Bank.
B. Implementation Schedule
4.03      The project required seven years to substantial completion of
physical works rather than the four years envisioned at appraisal. Slippage
was thus about 75% (Figure 1). The roads and bridges component lagged
substantially behind the overall project, req-uiring nine years to complete.
From actual start-up of this component, completion is expected to take six
years including design work. While project performance was significantly
behind appraisal estimates, it should be borne in mind that the original
schedule lacked the seasoning of actual experience with this type of project,
and was therefore rather unrealistic.
4.04      Roads and Bridges:  Delay in the roads and bridges component was
largely attributable to its slow start. Construction did not begin until mid-
1981 - the original project completion date. Loan extensions were therefore
twice granted to December 1983 and then December 1985. The reasons for delay
were (a) the lack of detailed design which was done following appraisal, (b)
delays in clearing squatters from the proposed road routes, which obstructed
survey work and design preparation, (c) the need to rebid the works due to
changes in Government's procurement rules at the time of award, and (d) the
decision to build a dual carriage-way which required substantial additional
counterpart funds.



Figure 1
PHILUPPn
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loon 1272T/1282-1-PH
Implemetaton Schedule
*975     1976         1977         S97          979         1900        191           19S2        1963          96   1945
MAJOR COeweo.euNs                                 Yew 4        Y  2        Yea 3        YeIW4       YOS 5        Yea 8        year 7       yews         YeW9
3 4          J 2  3  4   4  2  3  4  1 2  3 _  _  2 _  4 _  2  3  4 _  23 1  4 3                 1 2  3 4  i 21 31 4  1  2  3  4
soi                                       7/      _wr__g, _ 1 _h E   _rr_     oX
Appto  I I _                                            _                                                      __         _      _________r1, 1111    
T"bhce/Decta   l l  l l l               l            C _ _ _ = _ _ _  e                   T I I t-t-t  | 1   T 1 11"'a  [,enwn            tensi
1 >)     l l Lll 1                                                          H  m    I I I I I I I I t I I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DftDa
CMf Workus
Ita1 ols LOOMan  core UIts
|Ttusuetu1 1 ,.taSmLt ~j e a
* VerTa.tot4 Atot8*to2
OUfl SeOW4
Tifle ftioce/Dochurnetahon
Col*ection                                                                                                                                                                                       _
OAGAT-OACAIA  (ReselItemn- Sle)
Larnd AcqLetfion (Expropd~lO)                                                   II
Rckmelsiltoc4e
MAoteqc' Loons/Come kUft St Relocation
Title fsmefDocurnntation
MAJOR ROAD
IRANSFORTAIIO I RAFFIC lMPvROkEMENT
0C04?IC,A LANSSMC6.                                                                                                                                                      94-lW
62%MffSS
~~mM1UUCIIMfmNNOwR          fnt   ?fllotolEC               ond,                       st twlilar
VW.                                                             2114 ftw     V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3d  4th    Sth Flaot
.A."rAMaNd Es"fXt Ieate"   Devaiolxfia  Dev*xtion  of Plos
AcActto I                                                                                      to 14     to is    165to20
De~ee                                                                                                               Woil eOrdI - 27496



- 16 -
4.05      Dagat-Dagatan also got off to a late start, but was largely
physically complete by mid 1979 - about two years behind schedule. Civil
works took longer than expected because of low and varied soil bearing capaci-
ties, unanticipated subsurface -onditions and obstructions, as well as NHA's
inexperience. "Software" features, however - principally the materials loans,
physical relocation and consolidation of new homes - were the principal cause
of delay. These tasks were expected to take 18 months but actually required
nearly four years. Such "human" factors were significantly underestimated and
explain much of the discrepancy between appraisal estimates and actual
performance.
4.06      In the case of Tondo Foreshore, delays were attributable to a number
of factors. First and foremost was the sheer magnitude and complexity of this
first upgrading effort, in combination with its experimental nature noted in
the preceeding section on project start-up. Many elements of the work were
simply not foreseen - or not adequately allowed for in the schedule. The
sequencing of work and orchestration of clearance and resettlement in such a
large area were not well understood. Thus the schedule itself was not a fully
suitable standard against which to measure performance. Seven other factors
proved major causes of delay:
(a) Survey Work: substantial errors and discrepancies were discovered
in the survey work carried out by contractors of NHA. These
involved missing structures, incorrect distances and errors in
elevations. Benchmarks for horizontal and vertical controls were
never tied in to one another and errors were generally so
significant as to render the exercise useless. The survey was
repeated, but while the quality improved somewhat, similar problems
arose and the second survey contract also had to be terminated.
Only in early 1978 - two years after Board approval, was a competent
survey team commissioned which satifactorily completed the work.
However, just as work by the third firm was getting underway, a
catastrophic fire swept Area 2 of Tondo, destroying 2,000 of the
Tondo's 17,000 structures, or about 12%. The physical, social and
political turmoil which followed slowed survey completion.
Throughout, survey monuments were lost or removed and workers
harrassed. Scme were killed in a local brawl. Detailed design work
could not be started until the survey was complete. Inexperience of
local firms with this type of complicated survey in densely
populated zones obviously contributed to these problems.
(b)  Subsoil Conditions and Obstructions:  Xondo was physically an
exceptionally difficult area in which to work. As in Dagat-Dagatan,
Tondo was affected by poor soil conditions involving extreme differ-
ential settlements and saline groundwater levels less than a meter
below the surface, further complicated by extensive pockets of
rubbish, vegetation and scrap metal. Although soil boring samples
collected during preparation indicated that poor conditions could be
expected, actual conditions were far worse than anticipated. The
southern portion of Tondo was found to be underlaid by a maze of
uncharted buried utilities of such age and condition that breakage
and flooding of excavations seriously hampered work. Dense criss-



- 17 -
crossing in some areas of overhead telephone and electric lines
obstructed crane movements and restricted work clearances throughout
the very densely populated area and presented problems throughout
construction.
(c) Resettlement: Road and other rights-of-way had not been fully
cleared when construction started. This waj particularly true where
only a portion of a dwelling obstructed work and had to be removed
by the owner who was inclined to procrastinate as long as possible
in the hope it might ultimately prove not necessary. Where entire
structures had to be demolished, residents resisted moving since the
Dagat-Dagatan site was not yet ready for occupancy. Work began in
late 1976, but the resettlement site was not ready for even prelim-
inary occupancy until 1978. Inadequate lead time had been allowed
for site development. Construction of major infrastructure com-
menced long in advance of "reblocking", and as a result, nearly all
work had to proceed in narrow, cramped lanes often little wider than
the excavation itself. A particularly vexing problem was the
constant danger of undermining foundations of structures in close
proximity to the work. The combination in Tondo of extremely poor
soil conditions, flat terrain and the absence of drainage rendered
work nearly impossible during the 3-4 month rains. This had not
been adequately anticipated.
(d) Reblocking: Regularization of plot layouts, referred to as
reblocking", was envisioned at appraisal and began fairly early in
the project. It involved in-situ relocation of structures within
each block. Three alternatives were presented to the community
involving a range between quite modest adjustments to the existing
layout to fairly dramatic repositioning of nearly all dwellings.
After extensive discussion, the community opted for the most
regularized pattern involving tremendous disruption, effort and
expense. The extent to which this represented their own free choice
or an in-built bias of the planners themselves is not entirely
clear. The result was an amazing rejuggling of almost the entire
community. "Before "and "after" photos are shown in Chapter III.
Buildings were literally picked up and moved by community teams.
Others were demolished and rebuilt. The cost was estimated at P
2,000 per unit, which if applied to 80% of the 14,000 eventual
dwellings added an unrecognized P22 million to the project cost, or
about a third of the expected unit development cost in Tondo.
Realization that these costs had to be fully covered by individual
families further slowed execution of this monumental undertaking.
Construction continued throughout the reblocking period. While some
of the reblocking followed road construction, civil works were
complicated and slowed by the exercise. (Under Urban IV (RCDP)
reblocking costs have been recognized and added to total project
costs. This expense is shared equally by all families as part of
the site development cost.)
(e) Work Quality and Contract Administration: Contract administration
was seriously deficient, especially at the beginning. Work quality



- 18 -
was poor and the pace of construction slow. Some works failed and
had to be repeated. Originally work was bid as one huge contract,
involving five major subcontractors. This gargantuan contract was
eventully terminated for poor quality and general non-performance.
Work was broken up into smaller packages. Problems with quality
dogged civil works throughout project implementation.
(f)  Community Intervention:  As noted under start-up difficulties, con-
siderable confusion existed in the initial 1974-76 period regarding
the project's nature and objectives. An intensive community educa-
tion campaign to dispel these concerns proved to be an ongoing
necessity throughout much of the project period. Even after con-
struction began, all field personnel - regardless of their employer
(NHA or contractor) or position - were subjected to queries and
discussions with the community about the project generally and spe-
cific works immediately underway. Disruptions to residents' daily
activities were inevitable. Major conflicts between contractors,
NHA field staff and residents were surprisingly few under the cir-
cumstances, but instances of individuals intervening in construction
and confronting contractors with intensive grilling about the proj-
ect were widespread. Civil disorder, particularly violence among
youthful rival gangs in the vicinity of work in progress, occasion-
ally forced workmen to seek refuge from overt warfare. Resistance
from residents of one neighborhood resulted in a time consuming
court action also slowed work. Despite the extensive involvement of
community leaders and groups, dealing with 180,000 individuals
proved extremely time-consuming.
(g)  Coordination:  The inter-dependence of various components of the
project demanded close sequencing, strict adherance to tight
schedules and constant coordination among implementing units and
line agencies. In the early years in particular, when agencies were
concentrating on their own area of responsibility with little
concern for its impact on the others, this coordination was
deficient and led to much delay. The establishment of an Inter-
agency Coordinating Committee helped but did not resolve the problem
which remained a difficult feature throughout implementation.
(h) Materials Shortages: Scarcity of PVC pipes and cement following the
1978-79 petroleum price hikes also slowed work and resulted in the
loss of much of one building season.
C. Costs
4.07      Total project costs (Annex B) were estimated at appraisal at P487.8
million ($65.0) based on preliminary engineering. Actual costs were P973.7
million or approximately US$91.8 million. This represents an overrun of 100%
in pesos and 41% in dollars. The differences between appraisal and final
estimates to completion for the main categories of expenditure are as follows:



- 19 -
P million
Appraisal
Estimate              Actual         Over/Under
Tondo Upgrading                 202.8               404.2              +100%
Sites and Services               57.8                105.7              +83Z
Sewer Outfall                    11.3                 37.0             +227X
Major Roads                     102.5                338.9             +231%
Traffic Improvement              52.0                 30.3              -42X
Technical Assistance             61.4                 57.6               -6X
Total    Pesos             487.8               973.7               +75X
US$                65.0 @ 7.5       US$91.8 @ 10.6       +241
Bank Loan                   32.0                42.5                  -
Cost Sharing                49%                 461                  6Z
4.08      The main cost increases occurred with respect to major roads and
bridges (231%), the sewer outfall (227%) and Tondo upgrading (100%). In
addition to the Bank and Borrower's general inexperience in estimating costs on
this type of undertaking, major reasons for the differences between appraisal
estimates and actual costs were:
(a, for Tondo, delays in start-up (para. 3.01), underestimated
quantities for land fill and reclamation work, where a variance of
more than 6001 occurred due to unforeseen subsurface conditions and
obstructions, hikes in land costs of 150%, and the generally higher
labor and materials costs resulting from the major 1978/79 petroleum
Price increases;
(b) for the roads and bridges, major delays in start-up as well as the
price increases noted above. Designs here were preliminary and
should have been further along for reclaimed land such as this where
uncertainties can be high; and
(c) for the sewer outfall, four years delay in start-up, increased scope
of work for the interceptor and watermain across the C-2 highway, as
well as the cost increases noted in (a).
4.09      Savings were realized in the traffic component principally due to
the omission of the civil works element. Equipment costs only modestly
exceeded those expected (by 16%).



- 20 -
D. Disbursements
4.10      Disbursements on the original loan required nine years to complete -
with the project's profile very similar to the overall urban profile
(Annex C). Most first generation projects suffered similar start-up difficul-
ties because of the inexperience of both the Borrower and the Bank in these
types of operations, as well as the inherent difficulties of any demonstration
project which attempts major policy reform. Though start-up was quite slow,
depressing disbursements throughout the initial five years, momentum gathered
in the sixth and seventh years, when fully 40% of the total loan was drawn
down. If NHA were able to roll over its program on a continuing basis, this
would imply a drawdown capacity for a program type of loan of this size of
about five years. Disbursements followed a predictable "S" curve, though in
these early years, Bank staff were using a rather unrealistic straight line
method for appraisal projections (see Figure 2).
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Development Costs
5.01      The pricing structure described in the Staff Appraisal Report was
modelled on the "private developer" formula, under which costs normally allo-
cated to homeowners in a private subdivision were to be borne by benefici-
aries, and off-site infrastructure, community facilities (except barangay
centers), studies and technical assistance were to be borne by Government.
Off-site water mains and stabilization ponds were partially allocated to
residents since they would also serve wider populations. One unified direct
charge to beneficiaries for lots is shown in the appraisal covering land,
reclamation, surveys, drainage, water, sewerage, electricity, core units and
barangay centers. The NHA's understanding, however, was that a split pricing
structure would be implemented with MWSS and MERALCO recovering associated
utility costs through normal tariff charges. This would differ from the priv-
ate developers' model under which buyers pay directly for all utility infra-
structure. Beneficiaries were also expected to pay for NHA's administration
and interest during construction. Based on this formula, gross development
costs (total costs net of community facilities, technical assistance, home
material loans and small business loans) were expected to average P 168 per m
°2 saleable land. In the event, actual development costs were about P 620 per
m or an almost fourfold peso inicease. In dollars, this was roughly triple
that expected (US$58 vs. US$22)._   While land and construction costs doubled,
much of this increase can be attributed to the longer implementation period.
5/   Using an average exchange rate of 10.6 over the life of the project.
Appraisal estimate includes all contingencies.



- 21 -
Figure 2
PHIUPPINES
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMEN PROJECT
Loan 1272T/12824 1PH
Disbursement Prof"l
I Of Total
Loan
100
qo
80 
40
30
20       A/U/v-
Year  1       2          3         4          5          6         7          8         9
Not* 40 d tLoan ODown In 6th 7th y                                                 Wd 8Ik-272"



- 22 -
Table V-1:  TOTAL DEVELOPMENT COST (P m)
Calculation at
appraisal /a         Actual
A. GROSS/NET DEVELOPMENT COST
Development Cost /b
(a) Tondo Upgrading                            148.02           332.13
(b) Dagat-Dagatan                               39.87            74.02
Total                                  187.89           406.15 (+116%)
(c) Administration (6%)                          9.70            24.37
(d) Interest during construction (12%) /d       11.90           193.73
Total                                  209.49           624.25 (+198%)
Less Profits
(a) Industrial, commercial                     100.02            37.61 /c
(b) Payments from PPA and DPH for
resettlement of squatters obstruc-
ting their programs                         18.10              -
(c) Vitas Industrial Area
Total                                  118.12            37.61 (32%)
Net Development Cost                            91.37           586.64 (+542%)
B. SALEABLE AREA
(a)  Residential                           1,021,000          845.294 (83%)
(b)  Commercial                              220,900          157,857 (71%)
Total                                1,241,900        1,003,151 (81%)
C. PER Md DEVELOPMENT COST
(a)  Gross                                       168              622 (+270%)
(b)  Net                                          74              584
/a   SAR page 57.
7r   Land, reclamation, surveys, all on-site infrastructure, core units and
Barangay Centers. Excludes community facilities, business and home
materials loans.
/c   Estimated.  Only 60% sold at time of writing.
7T   Actual implementation over 7.5 years.  SAR estimate incorrectly assumed
one year construction rather than the four shown in the SAR construction
schedule.



- 23 -
Appraisal estimate includes all contingencies in 1979 whereas actual
completion occurred in 1982. The SAR estimate of interest during construction
also incorrectly assumed a one-year implementation period, artificially lower-
ing the escimated cost. For approximate comparison, appraisal estimates
should be increased by another 45% representing three additional years infla-
tion, and an appropriate four-year construction period reflected.  Th se two
adjustmgnts would bring the anticipated devilopment cost from US$22/m to
US$37/mr on about two thirds of the US$58/m . Annex J and Table V-1 outline
development costs and units costs per square meter expected at appraisal and
actual.
B. Sale Prices/Affordability
5.02      Sale Prices.  Subsantial cross-subsidies were to be applied to
residential lots from the profits from commercial and industrial land (about
10% of the total area) which were expected to realize about P 100 (US$13.3)
million, and from payments to NHA by PPA and DPH for resettlement of squatters
obstructing their development projects (para 2.03). Anticipated profits
totalled P 118 million. Under the single integrated charge outlined in the
appraisal rep ?rt the average sale price for residential lots was expected to
be P 52 per m or P 2,600 for an average 50 m lot. Actual costs were over
ten times this figure - and would have resulted in a sales price of P 577 per
m or P 28,850 per average 50 m lot.
5.03      Predictably actual costs rose and profits as well as saleable land
shrank. As noted above, cost increases were attributable to capital costs
which doubled from P 187 million to P 406 million and (b) administration and
interest during construction which far exceeded expectations due to delays,
adding 50% to development costs. Profits on commercial/industrial areas were
about a third of that expected, and payments from line agencies (PPA and DPH)
never materialized at all.,'  Finally, saleable land - which was frequently
overestimated in first generation projects - shrank by about 20% (Table
V-1). The combination of these factors drove up actual prices significantly
above appraisal estimates.
5.04      Cross-subsidies from commercial/industrial units were a disappoint-
ment. In theory, these differential pricing arrangements were rational,
creative, and seemed achievable.  In practice they proved less effective.  The
Philippines' deteriorating economy left NHA with a huge demand for low-cost
subsidized residential units and a much reduced commercial/industrial
demand. Economic shifts led to deteriorating market prices, and uncertainty
as to whether to pre-sell lots (running the risk of underestimating final
6/   The appraisal report makes no mention of the Vitas area which figured
prominently in NHA's own calculations of commerical profits under the
project. The NHA has contended that the Vitas Industrial Area is an
integral part of the Tondo project, and that profits would be used for
cross-subsidy of the residential area. See Annex M for a fuller
discussion of the Vitas property.



- 24 -
costs and selling at a loss) or waiting until completion (creating inventory
problems and downside risks of weakening demand and lowered prices). As noted
above, payments expected from other Government agencies did not materialize,
and saleable area for commercial/industrial fell significantly short of
appraisal expectations by about 30%. Sales lagged. As of December 1984,
commercial/industrial sales stood at about 57% of the total. Assuming sales
are consumated on completed lots, the P 118 million expected profit at
appraisal will drop to P 37 million, or about one third. The Authority is
seriously rethinking the practicability of cross-subsidies and contemplating a
policy change under which sale prices on all units would fully cover e sts,
and commercial/industrial units would garner whatever profit the markec would
bear. Economic downturns would then leave NHA less exposed.
5.05      The P 577 appropriate sale price at project completion was not,
however, the price actually charged beneficiaries. Three events altered the
pricing formula presented in the SAR. First, the pricing formula reverted to
a split charge, with utility infrastructure costs recovered through tariffs.
The appraisal report anticipates one unified direct charge to beneficiaries
covering nearly all infrastructure, core units, and land costs. In the event,
all water and sewerage (off-site, on-site and on-plot up to the house) were
charged to MWSS to be recovered through normal utility charges, and all elec-
trical infrastructure was built by MERALCO and recovered in a similar
manner. Assuming these agencies remain financially healthy, these costs will
still be recovered from beneficiaries, through utility charges. Thus two
charges emerged, one for lot mortgages and one (or more) for utilities.
5.06      The shift to a split pricing structure (direct charge and utility
charge(s)) did not alter the basic cost allocation formula (Annex K).
Families still paid directly for land, reclamation, survey, local roads and
footpaths, drainage, core units, barangay centers, landscaping, commercial/
industrial buildings and design/supervision. They paid indirectly (through
utility tariffs) for water, sewerage and electical infrastructure. The net
effect was to cut costs allocable to the mortgage by about half, shifting the
burden of collection on this sum to MWSS and MERALCO. As noted above, NHA
indicated at completion that it had always understood a split price would be
applied and did not consider this a change in project design. The unified
price may have been a presentational simplification by the appraisal team.
5.07      The appropriate sale price on mortgages based on the split pricing
structure (net of utilities  and after applicatio  of cross-subsidies should
have been about P 300 per m  or P l5,00C per 59 m  average residential lot
(Annex J).  The actual price was P 95.29 per m  about a third of that
required. At the mandated price, a 50m lot would cost P 4,760. This price,
implemented under PD1314 issued March 20, 1978, represented the second major
alteration of the pricing structure presented in the appraisal report. It was
far more significant than the first.
5.08      PD1314 materially eroded cost recovery.  The Bank concurred in this
decision, however, and even encouraged it because three years had passed since
project start-up and the commuity was anxious to know what price they were to
pay for their lots. By setting a price, the NHA established the understanding
that costs were to be recovered. The Authority was confident the allowances



- 25 -
for price escalation were sufficient, and that costs would not rise farther, a
judgement in which the Bank also concurred. Events proved otherwise. Actual
completion occurred only four years later following significant Kqrther price
escalation, triggered in part by the 1978/79 oil price increase.-
5.09      Finally, no markups were ultimately charged on the P 95.20 capital
recovery factor established under PD1314. The 6% administrative fee ard 12%
p.a. interest during construction was subsidized by NHA.
5.10      Affordability.  The premature mandating8/ of the sale price in Tondo
under PD1314 damaged the project's cost recovery but further improved its
already excellent affordability. At appraisal, a lot in Tondo or Dagat
Dagatan (both priced the same) was expected to be affordable to about 85% of
the residents, assuming families could pay 18% of household income for project
services. Using the same 18% assumption, by 1982 at the time of physical com-
pletion in Tond?, the charges that should have resulted from the ylit pricing
formula (P300 m ) were affordable to over 95% of Tondo residents - a distinct
improvement over the appraisal estimate. Table V-2 summarizes sales prices
and affordability at appraisal and at project completion.
7/   The NEDA recommends beneficiaries be allowed to participate in the
determination of changes as part of intensive community education
campaigns prior to project start-up in future upgrading projects.
8/   The NHA points out that as noted in para. 5.08, the Iecision on PD1314
was made after much deliberation and the P 500 per m land price was
actually suggested by the Bank in compliance with an earlier Presidential
directive on Tondo land sales (RA#1597).
9/   Based on 1981 incomes in Tondo.



- 26 -
Table V-2: SALE PRICES/AFFORDABILITY
Completion
Appraisal          Appropriate              Actual under PD1314
unified           Pplit price                  Split ?rice
price       Total      Mort-  Utili-    Mort-   Utili-  Total
gage   ties       gage      ties
Gross Development Cost m2          168           622
Less Profit
- total profit                 118.1 m        37.6 m
- Saleable reiiden-
tial area m                 1.021 m   .845,294 m
- Profit per m2                    116            45
Sale price per m2 /a                52           577      300   277         95     277      372
Cost of a lot
- Average 50m2                   2,600        28,850  15,000              4,750
- Minimum 30m2                   1,560        17,310   9,000              2,850
Monthly charge for 30m2
minimum lot (12Z/25 yrs)           16           184       95               30
Monthly household income
required (assuming 18%
housing expenditure)               90         1,020      530              170
Proportion of Tondo
residents who can afford          85%           55%     90%            over 95Z
/a   No downpayment.
5.11      Despite cost increases and protracted delay, it appears the project
would have met and even exceeded its affordability target of 851 based on
actual costs. The imposed subsidy under PD1314 was unnecessary. The reason
for this is simply that while development costs including markups tripled
(Table V-1) - so did incomes. Tondo's median income rose from the 435
projected for 1978 at expected completion to 1200 at actual completion in 1982
- a nearly threefold increase.  Over 90% of Tondo residents could afford the
P95 (US$9) appropriate monthly charge for a minimum 30 m lot. The further
reduction to P30 ($3) under PD1314 achieved little in terms of greater afford-
ability to residents, but placed a singificant financial burden on tne NHA
totalling about P80 (US$7.5) million.



- 27 -
C. Cost Allocation
5.12      The major impact of the three pricing adjustments was to
dramatically reduce direct lot (mortgage) charges (from 82% to 37% of total
upgrading/serviced site costs) and double subsidy levels (from 18% to 35%).
About 28X of costs were passed on to the utility companies which are still
expected to recover these costs from beneficiaries. In total, beneficiaries
should have paid 80% of upgrading/serviced site costs and actually paid 65%.
The NHA picked up the difference with its share of costs rising from nothing
at appraisal to 17%, or P 88 (US$8) million. Table V-3 presents the cost
allocation anticipated at appraisal and actual (see Annex K for details).
Table V-3: COST ALLOCATION
Proportion of Serviced Site/Upgrading Costs
Appraisal                   Actual
(under PD1314)
Beneficiaries
-  Direct charges (mortgage)                                             37%
-  Indirect charges (utility payments)         -                         28%
Sub total                              82%                        65%
NHA                                            -                         17%
National Goverment                            18%                        18%
Total                                 100%                       100%
D. Tenure, Sales and Collections
5.13      Tenure.  At appraisal the anticipated form of tenure was a leasehold
with option to purchase. The two advantages of this form of tenure were (a)
the ability to issue the lease against a writ of possession, before land
acquisition was complete, and (b) ease of eviction in the event of non-
payment. However, because the Tondo community had for years been promised
title by Government, political pressures rapidly mounted to shift to deed of
sale (title) with mortgage (DSM). NHA eventually promised the community
individual land title. However, expropriation procedures resulted in
protracted land acquisition and at the time of writing, NHA possessed title to
only two thirds of the area. Some form of contract was required to initiate
collections, and in 1984 the Authority decided to revert to the CCS for
properties as yet untitled. Though this decision met with some resistance
from elements within the community, it represented the only practical
alternative.
5.14      Sales.  Partly because of land acquisition problems, as well as
other factors, sales (including mortgage documentation in upgraded areas)
lagged. At the time of writing three quarters of residential lots and only
57% of commercial industrial units were sold/documented (Table V-4). Of the
remaining residential lots in Tondo, 28% were affected by duplicate titling



- 28 -
and legal complexities, unresolved census cases, resales and encroachments.
Since virtually all new serviced sites were utilized tor resettlement,
selection of beneficiaries did not feature in this first project. The
inability to clear squatters from comnercial lots in both areas - including
one large contractor - also stall.ed operations. Heavy price escalation of 50-
60% in 1984 as well as lower than expected prices led to a temporary
suspension of marketing. However, activity was resumed in early 1985. Table
V-4 presents the December 1984 status of sales.
Tablle V-4: SALES
Residnritial n-i  Sold   Commercial/Tndustrial m2  Sold
Tondo                         */60,508       72%               91,528            49%
Dagat-Dagatan                  84,786       100%               66,329            67%
Total:           845,294        7%               157,;857           57%
5.15      Collectiorts.  Cost Lecovery has been si>ogularly the weakest aspect
of project implementation., Start-up of coulections was significantly delayed
among resettled families occupying Dagat-Dagatan, where occupancy occurred in
1978/79 and collections began only in January 1985, due to lack of title as
well as to a longstanding dispute regarding the charging of core units.
Compulsory collections began in Tondo Foreshore in mid-1973, about a year
after infrastructure completior (see Chart 27277). Though well behind SAR
estimates this was not unreasonably behind service delivery. Thus NHA's
project collection experience spans only about 18 months and reflects only the
initial stages of this phase of the project.
5.16      To date, the Authority has collected about 56% of the amount due
(61% in Tondo and 49% in Dagat-Dagatan). Advance payments and full payoffs by
families with relatives employed abro.d initially masked mounting arrears.
For example, for 1984 which was effectively the first full year of serious
collection effort, P22.19 millioni was due and actual collections were P27.34
tor Tondo and Dagat-Dagarax: - fully 123% of that expected. Arrears, however,
rather than declining, mounted sharply during; the first half of the year,
prior to rescheduling.
5.17      The low level of collections is parLially attributable to the slow
start-up of initial collecLions in Tond(, where thera was no previous history
of payment. the considerable sociological difficulty of attempting to
establish a habit of regular monthly payment amo.n3 a large squatter population
accustomed to free occupancy must be acki.,owledged and constitutcs a second
major factor. Third, more thorough preparation and advance work and greater
lead time would have done much to strengthen the critical start-up period. A
fourth factor has been that until recently, the MMA st.cwed litle real will to
collect.  With the Bank and Government supplying the majority of its
investment needs, other pressing - usually engineering - matters took
priority. The Authority's perspective on this last factor differs from the
Bank's. They attribute delays in ccllection start-up principally to NHA's
verbal committment to ttile community that pa)'ment would oegin only upon full



- 29 -
delivery of tpnu..-. and services.  ThiF. co.mmittrnent was made early in project
implementaLion to gain the confidence and cooperation of Tondo residents.
While tenure was issued to many at earlier stages, services were not fully
functionsl before late 19083, water pressures as noted herein, are still
inadequate ini several areas of Tondo, road maintenance is poor and serious
periodic flooding recurs.  Doubtleqs these community commitments comprise a
fifth and importanz cause of low collections.  Establishing a distinction in
the community's mind betweeon' "delivery" of a service (NHA's responsibility)
and its "mainter.ance" (the job of local government and utilities) has been
difficult. When maintenance i9 poor, people stop paying.
5.18      The Philippines'  1983/84 ecooomic and financial crisis created new
incentives for ccst recovery. Government funds were less forthcoming, and
Bank projects and thus disbursemeinis slowed, As debt service mounted on NHA's
previous borrowings, cash grew short. Local borrowings became prohibitively
expensive.  For these and other reasons, a major 1984 drive was mournted to
improve corporate collections.
5.19      The year brought three major chaniges.  Management information on
collections was sharpened and focussed on six 1.i,sic indices and the scope of
regular reporting extended to Bil NHA's project areas, producing a complete
picture of collections for tLe first time. ln June, eD1923 was issued, giving
beneficiaries a three month period in which to pay off arrears and/or
reschedule their payments.  Penalties on delir.ouent payments were forgiven for
this period if delinquent accounts were paid in fill or rescheduling arranged
byp September 30, 1984, though no write-off of p.incipal or interest was
granted.  By September, P2 million of the P4 million total arrears in Tondo
had been paid in cash. Rescheduling gave both beneficiaries and NHA a clean
start.  Finally, NhA issued public notice of its intent to foreclose on
seriously delir.quent cases, though it has never before enforced cases of
repossession and resale on low-income lots since its 1975 inception.
5.20      The 1984 drive produced results.  Collection on the Bank's total
portfolio with th,8Authority nearly tripled from P13 million in 1983 to P37
million in 1984_1    A main drive also occurred to establish new accounts in
non-Bank sites, with 26,000 accounts addee Lo the roster. Total collections
rose from P65 million in 1983 to P101 million in 1984 - a 55% increase. It
remains to be seen whether these measures will result in sustained improvement
in collection efficiency,  Serious obstacles still exist in the farm of
mounting political opposition to tightened cclLections during an economic
downturn, and in the legal one-year redemption period during which NHA may not
resposses or sell off a unit. As a result the unit therefore remains a non-
performing asset for about two years.  Subseqoetic PCRs on Urban II and III
will follow up on this aspect.
10/  New accounts increasea by onty 14% so) do not explain the increase.



- 30 -
E. Infrastructure Turnover and Maintenance
5.21      Turnover of completed works to MWSS, MERALCO and local governments
has proven a major headache. Completions have been significantly delayed,
with attendant cost increases. Despite an earlier Memorandum of Agreement in
principle (with MWSS only), negotiations over final asset values and
construction quality have led to protracted delays of up to five years for
some works. Meanwhile NHA must maintain completed infrastructure.
5.22      Of the P234 million total in completed works for handover, about 60%
is attributable to MWSS and 40% to MPWH. To date, the MWSS has accepted about
58% and the MPWH 100% of these works under Deeds of Transfer (DOTs). Overall,
turnover stands at 76%. The DOTs formally transfer assets and responsibility
for payment of any commensurate IBRD debt. They also acknowledge the equity
investment of NHA as a debt. So far, however, no payment method or schedule
for repaying NHA equity has been set. The NHA plans to tackle this problem
after agreement has been reached on the total amount of the obligations under
Urban I. Alternately NHA may have to adjust paid-in capital for these
amounts. The City of Manila accepted all of its minor roads in January 1985.
5.23      Maintenance has been problematic.  Delays in turnover left NRA with
the formal responsibility and expense of maintenance. In addition, the
unavoidable immediate use of services (e.g. roads) in an occupied site like
Tondo results in the immediate onset of deterioration. As noted in para 4.17
inadequate maintenance and dysfunctional services (e.g. low water pressures)
have contributed to low payment levels. Hopefully the progress made in 1984
in turning over works will help to separate the concept of service maintenance
from mortgage payments responsibility in the community's mind. ihis will take
time, however, as well as an active community education campaign which was
launched in the spring of 1985. The NEDA has suggested means be explored in
future projects for involving the community itself in maintenance activities.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
A. National Housing Authority (NHA)
6.01      The NHA's performance was strong in some respects and weak in
others. It should be borne in mind when assessing institutional performance
thac this first project was essentially a physical demonstration of an
unprecedented approach - in situ upgrading and self-help housing - in a huge,
complex, and politically volatile community. Just building the physical works
represented a major challenge. Community relations introduced complexities
and NHA did much learning along the way, adjusting its approach as it



- 31 -
proceeded. The project's institutional objectivesL-/ did not go much beyond
building NHA's production capacity - which was achieved, and a viable cost
recovery performance - which was not as of the date of this report.  The
Authority has also had difficulty in handing over infrastructure and extracing
itself from maintenance responsibilities in completed sites. Intensive
efforts are evident by NHA to improve its performance in this regard, and the
PCR on the second and third Projects will reflect the results.
Product Delivery
6.02      The expansion of NRA's production capacity for low cost upgrading
and serviced sites represented a principal project objective and one of its
primary achievements. The Housing Authority at project inception had
virtually no track record in this type of operation. Through this first
project it has upgraded about 14,000 dwellings (vs. 15,000 estimated at
appraisal) and resettled another 2,500 (vs. 3,000 estimated), fundamentally
affecting the lives of roughly 180,000 people.
6.03      The Housing Authority is the only agency producing housing
affordable to the lowest two thirds of the population. The majority of its
production is targeted on lower income households through serviced sites,
upgrading and resettlement, though it also produces some completed housing,
condominiums and rental apartments. It is presently reassessing the merits of
its completed housing production program, and considering withdrawal.
6.04      As of 1981, five years after project start up, the NHA reported
annual production of over 18,000 units. Production slipped in 1982 to about
16,000 due in part to the deteriorating economy and in part to the normal
lumpiness of annual figurel1 This represented about half of total production
by the Government system.-
Financial Performance
6.05      The Autiiority's financial performance has significantly lagged its
physical performance. Engineering and construction concerns dominated the
agency's attention for the first five years. Staff and management alike were
immersed in the extencive difficulties of such a major physical undertaking.
Insufficient attention and particularly lead time was devoted to "software"
project features such as land acquisition, titling, and cost recovery. At a
broader level, the NHA's management of its financial affairs was similarly
11/ Other objectives such as the projects demonstration effects are covered
elsewhere in this report (see paras. 2.05, 3.01, 6.02 and 6.04).
12/ Including the shelter finance system of mortgage purchases by National
Home Mortgage Finance Corporation (NHMFC). Source: Public Investment
Review - Shelter Sector, December 1984.



- 32 -
weak.13' There was little evidence that the Authority intended - or desired -
to establish itself as a financially viable housing corporation independent of
continuing government subsidy/equity contributions. In most respects it
behaved more like a government deparcment, relying on direct government
infusions to supplement Bank loans, and devoting little serious effort to
estabtishing or improving its corporate receipts (collections) or internal
operating efficiency. Government, in turn, periodically directed the
Authority to perform tasks which it might not, of itself, have elected to
carry out. In this respect the Authority has not differed dramatically from
many - if not most - other publicly held corporations in the Philippines.
Centralized directives and laxity in corporate financial performance have been
pervasive problems and are only now being addressed by Government.
6.06      The Authority has recently begun to focus attention on improving its
financial position. In addition to the 1984 cost recovery drive, a new
pricing policy is under consideration which would begin to stem the leakage of
its capital through subsidies, and it has recently initiated moves to sell a
portion of its mortgage portfolio in order tc' revolve its capital. These are
all positive signs.
Institutional Maturation
6.01      Three distinct phases seem discernable in the NbA's gradual
maturation. In the early years of project design and start-up, social and
political factors featured heavily in the agency's operations. Housing was a
politically sensitive topic. As a rcsult, policy change was difficult.
Upgrading and self-help site and service programs were poorly understood by
both government generally and the Tondo community in particular. The NHA
itself had little technical capacity in these areas - a factor acknowledged by
the appraisal report. T1e project's second phase which extended throughout
most of the execution period was therefore devoted predominantly to building
its technical and production capacity. Consultants employed to do detailed
design and supervision helped, but much of this learning came from trial and
error by the staff itself. As the agency gradually improved its grasp of the
physical side of its operation, attention began shifting to the financial
aspects of its business. As noted above, cost recovery and collections
performance have now become the principal focus of attention. The Philippine
financial and economic crisis of 1983/84 probably sharpened NHA's attention to
these matters by virtue of extensive cutbacks in Government funding in
combination with the growing debt service on Bank loans.
6.08      No doubt this process has taken far too long.  Fully a decade has
passed since project appraisal, and cost recovery performance is still not at
a satisfactory level. There is reason, however, to expect measurable improve-
ment under the third project, which focuses on broader aspects of NHA's
institutional performance. Just as it took NHA five years to build reasonably
13/  NHA indicates that while attention to and management of collections was
weak to begin with, they feel other aspects of their financial management
were satisfactory.



- 33 -
solid technical capacity, it will take several years of concentrated attention
to establish a satisfactory collections performance, and probably several more
to sharpen its financial management.
6.09      While some housing agencies in other countries have traversed these
stages more rapidly than the NHA, it is difficult to judge in the Philippine
context what a reasonable time frame might have been. The appraisal
expectation of four years was overly optimistic; the reality of a decade or
more probably too long. To judge institutional performance the project must
be placed in context.
Environment
6.10      All project agencies operated in a difficult environment,
particularly in the latter years of project implementation. Politically,
economically and administratively, the Filipino environment presents major
obstructions to effective performance. The politically sensitive nature of
housing and slum upgrading accentuates many of these problems for the NHA.
Local inflation over the project period was estimated at 10% per year for 3.5
years of active construction and in the event averaged 12.6% over six years
(1977-82), skyrocketing in 1983 and 1984 to unprecedented levels of up to
50%. The four devaluations of the 1983/84 period only marginally affected
construction costs, but in tandem with inflation seve-ely eroded family
affordability just as cost recovery was getting off the ground. The heavy
1984 inflation created serious political problems with colle 'tions in Tondo.
Budget cuts, disruptions in flows of Government funds, very low civil service
salaries and highly politicized decisionmakirg all make it extremely difficult
for Filipino institutions to perform well, both operationally and
financially. In addition, NHA serves a market segment that wields little
economic clout and constitutes a relatively powerless if vocal minority of a
highly stratified society. The creation of the Human Settlements Development
Corporation (HSDC) and its subsidiary Bliss Development Corporation (BDC)
under the MHS system initiated competitive activity and a merger attempt in
the late 1970s. As economic conditions deteriorated, competition for funds
became fierce. In this environment, the NHA's physical accomplishments are
indeed commendable, and their poor cost recovery performance though not
acceptable, is at least more understandable. A comparison of NHA's corporate
collections performance vis-a-vis other Philippine corporations as well as
other housing agencies in the region would better place performance in context
with other agencies of a similar nature and age, but is regrettably beyond the
scope of the present PCR.
Organization/Staffing
6.11      The Authority's original organizational structure (Annex D) was
altered only slightly during implementation. The Relocation and Resettlement
Department took on the new upgrading function and a separate Commercial/
Industrial Estate Department was establisned by 1978 when the second project
was appraised. However, a major reorganization occurred in 1981 under which
the Metro Manila Projects Department (MMPD) was strengthened, and the
Financial Department was split into units focu ed on technical functions and a
unit to handle overall financial management.



- 34 -
6.12      Buildup of professional staff levels was a major achievement of the
first project. The Authority tripled in size from 1,100 staff in 1976 to a
peak of 2,900 in 1983. Staff turnover presented problems throughout implemen-
tation, but does not appear to be a significantly greater problem in NHA than
elsewhere. The Authority is seriously concerned about manpower development
and runs a number of well conceived programs for its managerial, professional
and support staff. Strength in technical skills still outweighs financial
capacities. However, the Authority has built a staff capability to keep the
environment under surveillance to do policy analysis, to think, plan, program,
monitor and evaluate. Such capacities exist only on paper in many institu-
tions. While ample scope exists for improvement, these functions at least
appear to be real and alive in NHA.
Reporting
6.13      Information systems and reporting were initially weak, particularly
on civil works and project costs and cost recovery but improved substantially
over the years. Financial information on actual collections remained poor
until i984 when significant improvement occurred. In the ensuing year a
thorough monitoring system was established for NHA's entire portfolio - a
significant initial step towards improved collection performance. Financial
management indices are still not closely monitored by eithej 4he Bank or NHA
and accounting practices are deficient in certain respects.14   Rectifying
both should constitute a principal focus of future loars.
Coordination and External Relations
6.14      The project required extensive coordination between Government
Ministries and agencies, a task which was assigned to NHA in addition to its
responsibilities as executing agency for the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat-Dagatan
components. This involved primarily six entities including the DPH - which
executed the major roads component, MWSS - which executed the sewage outfall
station, DPWTC for the traffic management component, and DBP/PNB for adminis-
tering the line of credit for cottage industry. Schools were built by NHA on
behalf of the Ministry of Education and health centers for the Ministry of
Health. Other community facilities such as playgrounds and barangay centers
were also built for the community, a seventh and most complex entity with
which NHA required close liaison.
6.15      As forewarned in the appraisal under project risks, coordination
proved a major headache, and absorbed unexpected quantities of staff time
particularly during project start-up. Though an Interagency Coordination
Committee that was established made some contribution, major problems still
arose. Frequently NHA had to take action to fund and execute critical off-
site works when a line agency could not carry out its responsibilities due
mainly to budget constraints. This not only led to delays and excessive
14/ NHA views its accounting practice as reasonably satisfactory.



- 35 -
demands on NHA management and staff, it also caused subsequent problems with
turnover of completed works. Agencies were reluctant to accept completed
components at the asset values shown as well as responsibility for maintenance
when they had not been directly involved with execution. Turnover and
maintenance problems are covered in paras 4.21 - 4.23. Though their impact
was financial, turnover delays were due in large measure to weak coordination
and construction delays which increased costs. Staff transitions in all
agencies and poor long-term institutional memory of previous agreements also
contributed. Under Urban II and III which continued development of the Dagat
Dagatan site and expanded both upgrading and serviced sites to regional
cities, NHA began to develop earlier and tighter liaison with line agencies
and utilities ultimately taking over works, as well as clearer contractual
covenants regarding the financial obligations of both parties. As a result,
lag time between completion of works and turnover is expected to drop
significantly under Urban III.
6.16      The Authority's role within the sector changed significantly over
the project period. At start-up it was the only national housing agency,
having been created through the amalgamation of several others, and bore sole
authority for policy, production, and regulatory functions, including land use
regulation. In 1978, however, the sector underwent major changes with the
creation of the Ministry of Human Settlements (MHS) and six other shelter
institutions. Sectoral policy and leadership was vested in MHS, and a major
new source of housing finance established through the "pag-IBIG" provident
fund, a mandatory savings plan similar to social security. The pag-IBIG funds
were utilized to establish a secondary mortgage market through the National
Home Mortgage Finance Corporation (NHMFC), in which NRA participation through
mortgage sales was negligible.  The Authority was largely excluded from the
new source of housing finance. While serviced site and upgrading work do
figure prominently in the National Shelter Plan 1983-88 program by number of
units, by volume of total investment NHA plays only a modest role. It does
carry primary responsibility for serving the lowest income groups.
6.17      Perhaps in part because NRA predated the MHS system, the Authority
has never enjoyed particularly close coordination or working relations with
the Ministry or its agencies. The Authority has sold a few condominiums to
NEMFC, but has not until recently been able to tap the potential liquidity
from sales of its low income serviced site mortgage portfolio. A closer
working arrangement is now being undertaken to achieve this goal. As noted in
earlier sections of this report, competitive production functions have evolved
which have not contributed to the efficient use of resources. Establishment
of better, more effective relations between NHMFC and NHA has remained an
elusive goal, but one which the Government needs to rigorously pursue. There
are recent encouraging signs that together the two agencies can develop a
sound program of low income housing.
B. Ministry of Public Works and Highways (MPWH)
6.18      The traffic management component was well executed by the MPWH and
by their consultants. This component was implemented quickly, monitored well,
produced substantial operating cost and time 3avings, and has consequently
been well received by the public.



- 36 -
6.19      The Department of Highways and the Department of Public Works,
Transportation and Communications satisfactorilv executed their responsi-
bilities for detailed design of roads/traffic engineering and a Metropolitan
Manila transport/land use study, respectively. Though large, the MPWH
functions reasonably efficiently in civil works design and construction.
Extensive delays and cost overruns encountered in the roads and bridges
component were not primarily due to institutional weaknesses, but to other
factors (para. 3.02). Detailed design, however, should have been further
along before appraisal.
C. Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS)
6.20      The MWSS' performance under the project was not entirely
satisfactory. The agency was several years behind schedule in supplying water
to Tondo and constructing the new outfall sewer. However, these problems have
now been resolved except for continuing low water pressure at Tondo and the
fact that the outfall sewer is not yet functional due to delays in completion
of a pumping station which is not Bank-financed. Pressure problems will be
remedied when MWS II is completed during 1986. Water and sewer systems have
been tested and formally transferred to MWSS under two Memoranda of Agreement
with NHA (see para. 4.22). However, MWSS is not yet able to take all of the
sewage flow from Tondo, and low water pressure has created blockages in the
sewerage system. Remedial works on the C-3 interceptor sewer and the pumping
station at Dagat-Dagatan were also delayed but have now been completed.
D. The Role of Tondo Community
6.21      One of the most noteworthy features of the project was the active
participation of the Tondo Community in the upgrading project. Community
consultation was initiated early in the project design stage. The Community
Relations and Information Office (CRIO) was one of the first organizational
units of the project office. Intensive efforts were devoted during the
start-up period to educating, involving and discussing proposed plans with
Tondo residents. The task was not easy. Tondo contains a large number of
diverse and politically active groups for which the project offered an
excellent target of debate. It became at times a political football. In
addition, fully 84 different barangays (local organizational units) existed in
the immediate and contiguous area, which were organized into a Federation. A
Citizen's Committee with membership from the many different Tondo organiza-
tions was formed, and sectoral groups established to review particular
components. Information was disseminated through a monthly newsletter, a
speaker's bureau from among the community leaders, question/answer handouts,
as well as meetings and seminars. The NHA's General Manager and senior staff
actively participated in key grass roots meetings, especially in the early
years of 1974-76, during reblocking discussions, and during the 1984/85 cost
recovery drive.
6.22      Long years of neglect, indifference and unfulfilled promises had led
to considerable skepticism by residents about Government's credibility.
Meetings were often heated, but usually open and frank. The NHA's
relationship with the community over the years was and is complex: a mixture
of sincere desire for open consultation and trust, periodic coercion,



- 37 -
cooperation, affection, hostility, political maneuvering, fierce independence,
and patronage. To generalize about a ten year relationship with 180,000
people is difficult, but by and large the Authority appeared by 1983 to have
won the community's support.  A 1983 move by MHS to take over more direct
jurisdiction of the Dagat-Dagatan and Tondo projects generated a fierce
defense of NHA by the community.
6.23      A new chapter in community relations with Tondo is just beginning as
collections get seriously underway. Some evidence is apparent of political
resistance to even the subsidized prices being charged, no doubt partly
attributable to the erosion in real income that must have resulted from the
50% inflation in 1984, and partly to the Authority's intense 1984 cost
recovery drive. These efforts should continue to be monitored closely as a
part of the suppervision of succeeding NRA projects (Urban II, III and IV).
E. Performance of Contractors and Consultants
6.24      Initially contractors did not perform well and NRA supervision was
inadequate. Poor contractor performance was a major contribution to delay in
the 1978-79 period. Infrastructure construction began to accelerate in 1980
as a result of the decision to terminate one large contractor, and to award
smaller contract packages to seven new contractors and also as the result of
increased efficiency in the design and reblocking procedures. The C-3
Interceptor Sewer in Dagat-Dagatan was delayed because the contractor
abandoned the contract and had to be replaced. Construction activity peaked
in both Tondo and Dagat-Dagatan in December 1980, slackening thereafter due in
part to lagging efforts by contractors who became discouraged by periodic
disruptions and obstructions by residents. In Old Tondo delays occurred in
the removal of structures obstructing street rights-of-way. The more serious
cases had to be taken to court and many were only settled in early 1982.
6.25      Principal causes of poor contractor performance included:
(a) inexperience on the part of contractors generally and especially in this
type of undertaking; (b) inappropriate packaging of some works which were too
large for effective management by local contractors; (c) community
disruptions; (d) resettlement delays, and (e) inexperienced contract
management and supervision by URA. Toward the latter years, the Authority's
contract supervision improved relative to the initial years, and contractor
performance was adequate (see para. 4.06(e) for a discussion of NHA contract
supervision).
6.26      Both contractors and consultants performed well on the traffic
management component which was also well monitored. Consultants employed
under the other elements of the large technical assistance component performed
reasonably well, except for a few who had to be replaced. Consultants for
organization, management and financial planning at NHA performed adequately,
but the infusion of technical assistance did not achieve the degree of
advancement hoped for in NHA's overall financial performance and management.



- 38 -
F. Performance of the Bank
6.27      Appraisal of the project was thorough though somewhat naive, and
supervision was frequent, averaging 25 staff-weeks of field time per year from
1977 through 1984. This high coefficient is not unusual in first generation
urban projects. Total supervision was estimated at 56 staff-weeks at
appraisal and actually required 194, a significant increase of almost
fourfold. Reasons for this include the policy environment and the subject
matter itself - slum improvement, and self-help housing (sites and services)
which were difficult and new. The project began to modify Government's policy
of slum clearance and mass relocation to distant areas. It was also complex,
simultaneously addressing a range of problems of Metropolitan Manila, and
involving a large number of institutions.
6.28      Several features of Bank performance are noteworthy as lessons for
the future:
(a) Performance deficiencies: detailed design and engineering were not
completed prior to appraisal on any project component. For Tondo
this created particular problems with soil conditions, subsurface
conditions and landfill requirements. Though soil investigations
were carried out during preparation, they proved insufficiently
detailed. Bearing capacities in Tondo turned out to be as low as
200 psf. Excavation deeper than six feet required expensive sheet-
pile lining and extraordinary costs were incurred to stabilize
excavation bottoms. Implementation and supervision time increased
as a result. For the major roads and bridges component, the lack of
detailed designs proved a major contributing factor in subsequent
delays and cost overruns. These sorts of engineering deficiencies
are puzzling in an institution which has been financing civil works
for over 40 years;
(b) Bank staff turnover: from start-up in 1975 to 1979 a number of
different project officers were assigned to the project as well as a
variety of consultants. Inevitably each required a period of orien-
tation, and each brought a slightly different focus and emphasis to
the work. The consequently changing Bank signals to NHA did not
contribute to steady, focused implementation. Finally the Authority
requested greater stability in Bank staff assignments which were not
altered from 1979-1983;
(c) Inadequate briefing: the proliferation of project officers and
consultants noted above was usually combined with inadequate
preparation and briefing, forcing NHA to utilize time and staff
capacity to brief visitors, and to justify and explain past
decisions;
(d) Inexperience: the relative inexperience of Bank staff (and
consultants) in combination with the overall tendency toward
optimism led to some fairly naive expectations at appraisal about
implementation schedules in particular. Insufficient allowance was
made for unexpected glitches and for learning; and



- 39 -
(e)  Imbalanced supervision:  Bank supervision concentrated heavily for
many years on civil works with insufficient attention to "software"
features such as land acquisition, mortgage documentation, cost
recovery and financial management. Each of the latter proved a
difficult and complex task for which far more lead time should have
been allowed. With the exception of land acquisition, none of the
other critical software features were even reflected in the project
implementation schedule.
VII. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
7.01      Appraised and actual economic rates of return for project components
with quantifiable benefits are presented in Table VII-1 below. The measure-
ment of economic benefits for the slum upgrading, residential sites and
services and commercial/industrial sites was based on the estimated increase
in property values brought about by the provision of infrastructure and other
services.
7.02      Tondo/Dagat-Dagatan.  At appraisal, the economic rate of return for
the Tondo upgrading and Dagat-Dagatan sites and services was estimated at
21%. In re-evaluating the benefits after completion, NHA calculated an
overall 17% return for this component using the same general methodology. For
the residential component, a 15% return was realized and for commercial/
industrial areas a 25% return (vs. 40% at appraisal). Appreciation in
property values has substantively kept pace with increasing costs. The
Authority's calculations were based on 1983 market values and reflect project
costs actually incurred, which were converted to 1983 prices by using actual
rates of inflation. Foreign costs have been shadow-priced at 1.2 and
unskilled labor at 0.8. Land for Tondo was priced at its opportunity cost.
(Details of the cost/benefit streams are on file.) The 17% return is somewhat
below the 21% expected at appraisal because che project took longer to
complete than expected, resulting in higher costs and a corresponding deferral
in benefits. In addition, the disposable area, particularly for commercial/
industrial areas, declined. Appraisal land value estimates were also opti-
mistic, and economic fluctuations eroded eventual prices.
7.03      Major Roads and Bridges.  Benefits of the major roads component were
based on estimated savings in road transport costs of all diverted traffic
from heavily congested routes in the Central Business District to the project
roads. This component is not yet complete, and was the focal point of a
supplementary loan made in 1983. Although costs have increased from P 102
million at the time of appraisal to the present estimate of P 339 million, the
component is still espected to yield a satisfactory economic rate of return
(about the same as the appraisal estimate) when both the cost and benefit
escalations are taken into consideration. Traffic flows appear to be in line
with appraisal estimates, and increased costs would be offset by increased
benefits based on current prices of fuel and time savings at present wage
rates.



- 40 -
7.04      The weighted average rate of return for the Tondo Foreshore
Upgrading, Dagat-Dagatan serviced sites, and the major roads and bridges
components was estimated at appraisal to be 22% and at completion to be 18%.
The factors of delay and consequent cost increases noted above largely explain
the 4% difference. Though slightly lower than expected, the 18% return is
fully satifactory.
7.05      Traffic (TEAM).  The traffic component produced an internal rate of
return of 29%. None was calculated at appraisal. The traffic signal system
reduced traffic delays by 17% and increased peak hour travel speeds by 10%,
while permitting traffic volumes to increase by 8% and 58% on various
routes. An estimated P35 million pesos per year are saved on fuel costs and a
roughly equivalent amount in travel time savings. Thus, about P70 (US$4)
million per annum is being realized in current savings. Thus, the traffic
component produced major benefits at low cost and, accordingly, is one of the
most successful traffic management components financed by the Bank to date.
Annexes E and F detail benefits on the TEAM component.
Table VII-1: ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Appraisal           Actual
Tondo upgrading and Dagat-Dagatan
residential 1; tegrated                            21%               18%
Major Roads anc Bridges
- R-10 between C-1 and C-2                           23%                 - /a
- R-10 betweeti C-2 and Dagat-Dagatan                24%                 - 7a
- C-2                                                14%                 - 7a
Weighted average Tondo/Dagat-Dagatan
and Major Roads and Bridges                        22%               18% est.
Traffic                                                -               29%
/a   Not complete.  Expected to be approximately the same as at appraisal.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS
A. Achievement of Objectives
8.01      Virtually all the project's stated objectives (para 2.05) were
achieved except that of financial replicability. The upgrading of Tondo - one
of the largest and more turbulent slums in Asia - was a highly ambitious goal
that was successfully achieved in physical and social terms. The slum
community virtually transformed itself over ten years into an upwardly mobile
neighborhood without appearing to have evicted the truly poor. Tondo has
affirmed the assumption that if given security of tenure and basic services,



- 41 -
families will build their own housing, the quality of which has surpassed even
the most optimistic predictions. The new serviced sites/self help approach
has also been well received by households, and like upgrading, has proven
socially as well as physically successful.
8.02      Attitudinal changes seem to have also occurred, though they are more
difficult to measure objectively. Tondo residents have become property owners
with a stake in stability, and although still politically vocal, there is
evidence of a much higher level of civic consciousness and responsible
citizenship. Residents took an active role in upgrading and proved reliable
partners. Internal resolution of conflicting neighborhood interests gave them
an opportunity to exert a degree of control over public decision making and
their own lives and community that had never before occurred. The community
has accepted the concept that benefits should be paid for, and has accepted
long term financial obligations to do so. All this offers evidence of
fundamental, though subtle, changes in attitudes.
8.03      Both upgrading and serviced sites have proven more cost effective
than previous approaches. Even with substanial cost overruns, capital devel-
opment costs of P28,000 for an average lot (P20,000 net of administrative and
other markups) were still only one fourLh of a typical contractor-built,
completed "low cost" house.
8.04      Pricing and cost recovery - the two key elements of firnancial
replicability - were the principal disappointments. The project's intention
was to demonstrate "full" cost recovery (meaning development costs net of
community facilities), in this case totalling about 82% of total development
costs. As noted in para 4.07, this objective was eroded by the premature
setting of the Tondo sale price several years before actual project comple-
tion, which reduced direct charges to one third of what they should have
been. Indirect charges under utility tarrifs as well as profits on commer-
cial/industrial units were not affected. Thus cost recovery was cut from 82%
at appraisal to 65%, of which only about half was direct.
8.05      Land in Tondo Foreshore was, in effect, given away at P5 per m2
making the replication of the Tondo model highly unlikely. Even in the Dagat-
Dagatan Phase I site, land prices were not reflective of real values, making
the replication of such a project infeasible without substantial downward
adjustments in infrastructure standards.
8.06      Collections have only been effectively underway for a year or two,
an insufficient period on which to base any significant conclusion. The
initial collection efficiency of 54% established in NHA's first year of
serious collection effort clearly requires improvement. The Authority has
formulated an action program to address this crucial issue.
8.07      Thus, even if priced right in subsequent projects, low income
mortgages have yet to be proven collectable and financially sound
investments. Until this occurs, there is little hope of attracting
significant private capital and scaling up into high volume production more
commensurate with need. However, the recent collection initiatives by NHA
give reason for optimism. Financial performance often lags physical



- 42 -
performance by substantial margins, and intensive follow-up is beginning to
yield improved performance in this vital aspect.
8.08      The project initiated Bank operations in the shelter sector in the
Philippines. Issues and objectives of subsequent Bank work in this sector
have expanded beyond the fairly specific objectires of this first
demonstration project.
B. Loan Covenants
8.09      Loan covenants were generally complied with (Annex D), with the
major exception of the pricing policy and cost recovery performance which
became highly politicized, and the failure to reimburse NHA for infrastructure
built on behalf of other Ministries.
C. Lessons
8.10      In addition to the observations noted in para 5.24 regarding Bank
performance, a number of lessons can be drawn from this first project which
should prove useful in future sectoral operations:
(a) Size of "demonstration" projects: As a demonstration, Tondo was
overly ambitious. A gargantuan and challenging project for even a
highly experienced agency, Tondo's upgrading quite overwhelmed the
NHA's fledgling capacities in this kind of new operation. Mistakes
were highly visible, politicized, large scale - and thus not easily
rectified. A smaller, less conspicuous target area would probably
not, however, have been politically acceptable. Pressures were
intense to "do something" about the living conditions in the
Foreshore and neither Government nor the NHA would have been
amenable to a less ambitious project;
(b) Land Acquisition: The protracted delays in expropriating land in
Tondo and Dagat Dagatan have cast serious doubts upon the viability
of any large scale, high volume housing program which must rely upon
expropriation as the primary vehicle of land acquisition. The
Authority is exploring the affordability impact of shifting to land
purchase at market values, limiting expropriation to only
exceptional cases of which upgrading would probably constitute the
majority. Higher land prices would have to be offset by lower
infrastrucutre standards and costs. However, the standards utilized
for both Tondo and Dagat-Dagatan offer ample scope for reductions;
(c) Premature Pricing: The prices set in 1978 under PD1314 proved
premature though the decision was taken after much deliberation and
in collaboration with the Bank. Actual completion occurred only
four years later and at double the expected cost. The community
wanted and needed to know the approximate monthly charges they were
expected to pay. However, once set, these prices rigidified and
could not be adjusted to reflect final actual costs. As a result,
the NHA subsidized the project to the extent of about P-80 million
(US$7.5 million). This represented a fairly common quandary in the



- 43 -
Bank's first generation projects. The NHA is subsequently trying a
new approach to pricing by ti) indicating a tentative initial price
to the community; (ii) jointly updating this price every few months
in collaboration with the community's representatives to establish
the flexibility of the price and explain reasons for price
adjustment; (iii) reducing completion time by tackling much smaller
sites (e.g. Zonal Improvement Program) which in turn should modify
price escalation, and, where this is not feasible (iv) pricing
larger sites in phases. With these measures the NHA hopes to avoid
the premature pricing problem;
(d) Pricing/Cross-subsid : A number of charges which should have been
incorporated into sales prices were not, resulting in losses to HA.
These costs will ultimately have to be either subsidized by govern-
ment grant infusions or written off from NHA's capital. The most
prominent among these include pre-development costs (feasibility
studies, survey, etc.), interest during construction, marketing and
sales documentation, general administration, maintenance of infra-
structure prior to turnover, and collections default allowances. A
revised pricing policy has been prepared by NHA identifying the full
range of costs incurred during project development - a proportion of
which were unexpected - and proposing recovery of most through lvt
sales.
A second major pricing lesson has been drawn from the disappointing
performance of cross-subsidies (para 4.04). Proposals are under
study for dropping cross-subsidy (though not differential pricing)
and pricing all units to at least fully cover actual development
costs;
(e) Community Commitments: Promises made by NRA to the Tondo community
to gain goodwill and cooperation proved expensive over the longer
haul. Specifically, the commitment that collections would not begin
until tenure (title) was delivered and all services were operational
in effect took the control of collection start-up out of NHA's own
hands and subjected it to the viscitudes of the court-dominated
expropriation process and to fluctuations in other agencies'
priorities. Though the Authority later regretted the practical
consequences of this promise, it would have been difficult to avoid
making this kind of statement under the conditions of hostility and
suspicion prevailing at the time of project startup;
(f) Contract Size/Supervision: Local contracting capabilities were
overestimated at appraisal, with all contracts grouped into one
overall package. The subsequent default of the contractor and
disaggregations of the package into smaller contracts was responsi-
ble for significant delays. Since then, contracts have been smaller
and better tailored to local capacities. Supervision was also
initially too loose, and there was laxity in the imposition of
penalties which resulted in unreasonable time extensions. While
numerous lessons have been learned and applied in tightening NHA's
contract supervision, scope still exists for further improvement;
(g) Turnover: The eventual difficulties NHA encountered in turning over
completed infrastructure point to inadequacies in interagency
coordination. The Memoranda of Agreement were signed well after the
completion of infrastructure (6/82 for MWSS and 12/84 for MPWH), and



- 44 -
did not prevent extensive dickering over asset values and associated
debt liabilities. Earlier and more explicit agreements were
needed. The legal agreements on Urban I were rather vague on the
subject of these transfers. Under Urban 1II, loaa covenants have
been tightened and are m&re explicit regarding the obligations of
MMC and MWSa in receiving the assets and debt obligation associated
with infrastructure developed by NHA and MPWH. These agreements may
not, however, prevent repeated difficulties, especially if costs
substantially exceed those anticipated at appraisal. Ideally the
parent ministry or agency should itself provide at least trunk
infrastructure. Practically, however, this may not be done in a
timely manner, and the lack of key infrastructure can obstruct the
sale/occupancy of a site. The price for NHA's independence in
infrastructure provision may turn out to be constant vigilance in
sustaining closer, more effective interagency cooperation;
(h) Core Units/Building Materials Loans: In contrast to initial
expectations, there was litle use of materials salvaged from
demolished shanties in constructing new dwellings in Dagat-
Dagatan. Most families purchased new materials. In addition,
households frequently tore down elements of the more complete core
units and altered the structure to better suit their personal
preferences. Toilets were frequently replaced as well. Thus
considerable initial savings could have been achieved by reducing
the core to an absolute minimum. This, in fact, has been done in
subsequent phases of both Dagat-Dagatan and the Pasig site. Build-
ing material loan amounts of P3,500 (US$330) were considered too
low, and the range and stock of materials supplied by NHA
inadequate. The length of time required to process a loan was also
considered by staff and borrowers to be excessive; and
(i) Renter's Policy: No policy was initially established regarding
renters, who turned out to constitute fully half of all Tondo
residents. Multiple occupancy of structures turned out to be much
higher than anticipated. The NHA came under considerable pressure
to treat renters equitably by providing to them tenure opportuni-
ties. The Authority contemplated and rejected joint plot ownership
proposals, and ultimately ended up utilizing A/large number of plots
in the Dagat-Dagatan site for Tondo renters.-_   These lots have
therefore not been available to meet new demand from growth and thus
to stem the spread of squatters. Instead they served to reduce
overcrowding in Tondo. An additional drawback is that room renters
are acknowledged to be poor affordability risks and thus more likely
to resell or default. There is also distinct likelihood of an
influx of "renters" prior to upgrading in order to jump the large
queue awaiting allocation of a serviced site. The NHA is now
formulating a policy on renters and contemplating the tradeoffs
between its desire to serve the total community and the urgent need
to meet demand from new growth, and recover costs.
15/ As of the time of writing, a total of 7,800 units in Dagat Dagatan have
been allocated, all of which have been for resettlement and a portion of
which have been for Tondo renters.



- 45 -
8.11      Many of the lessons of Urban I have already been incorporated into
NHA's procedures. Others raise complex issues involving difficult tradeoffs
and are under study.  Overall, however, a great deal of learning has occurred
through this project which is relevant not just to NHA's future work, but to
that of other agencies involved in both the financing and production of
serviced sites and upgrading programs world-wide.



ANNEX A
- 46 -                                  -aMoA
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1272-T/1282-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Principal Report Sources
Report no.                               Name                           Date
568-PH           Current Economic Position of the Philippines       Nov 12, 1974
-                The Philippines Priorities and Prospects for       Apr/May 1975
Development
1032a-PH         Philippines:  Manila Urban Development Project,  May 05, 1976
Staff Project Report
P1763-PH         President's Report, Manila Urban Development       May 17, 1976
Project
1282-PH          Loan Agreement for Bank Loan                       Jun 09, 1976
1272TW-PH        Loan Agreement for Third Window Loan               Jun 09, 1976
-                Report on the Status of the Tondo Foreshore        May 17, 1976
Development Project
2048a-PH         Second Urban Development Project                   Dec 01, 1978
2703a-PH         Third Urban Development Project                    Feb 26, 1980
4094-PH          Regional Cities Development Project                Mar 10, 1983
5027-PH          Municipal Development Project                      May 10, 1984
1282/1272TW-PH   Project Files
Correspondence, memos, telexes
Consultants' progress reports
Financial and audit reports
Feasibility study reports
Supervision reports
-                Project Completion Report (draft) Tondo Fore-        June 1983
shore Dagat-Dagatan Development Project
-                Project Completion Report                            May 1984



_ 47 _                             ANNE  A
Page 2
Report no.                               Name                           Date
15               Team Progress Report to World Bank from              Sep 1982
Ministry of Public Works and Housing
P.G. Pak-Poy and Associates
-                Status Report on World Bank-Assisted Projects    Jun 30, 1983
Ministry of human Settlements, National
Housing Authority
Philippines - Special Action Program              Nov 18, 1983
ME-6             The Philippines:  A Study of Income and Expen-       Aug 1980
diture Patterns
80-1             Interim Report:  Tondo Foreshore Dagat-Dagatan           -
Development Project, NRA - Research and
Analysis Division
-                Project Completion Report, Traffic Management        Oct 1983
Component by Ministry of Public Works and
Highways
Evaluation of Phase I of the Traffic Signal         Nov .°83
System in Metro Manila by P. G. Pak-Poy and
Associates
Determinants of Housing Investments in Slum Areas:    -
Tondo and Other Locations in Metro Manila, Land
Economics, Vol. 59, No. 4, November 1983 by
Raymond Struych and Robert Lynn
Household Networks and Survival Strategies Among   May 1982
the Urban Poor, Monetary and Nonmonetary Trans-
fers Among Selected Families in Tondo, prepared
by Mila Reforma and Ricci Obusan, National
Housing Authority, Research and Analysis Division
-                NRA Financial Review of Plan                         Jul 1983
Philippines Shelter Sector Assessment, AID          Nov 1983
National Housing Authority Five-Year Program        Oct 1983
(1984-88)



-48 -                                    ANNEX B
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1272-T/1282-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Costs
Increase (+)
Appraisal         Actual         Decrease (-)
Item                          estimate        (Dec. 1984)           (%)
Tondo Up4radins
Lana/reciahationu                              12.87            44.45              +245
Civil works and community facilities          167.80           329.25               +96
Materials and business loans,
core units, experimental area and misc.    22.15              30.53              +38
Subtotal                                 202.82          404.23              +100
Dagat Dagatan Sites and Serivees
Liandreclamation/survey                        16.79            40.74              +143
Civil works and community facilities           26.72            59.66             +123
Material loans/core units/relocation           14.27             5.30              (-63)
Subtotal                                 57.78           105.70               +83
Sewer Outfall*                                   11.30            37.03/a           +227
Major Roads
Land                                           27.83            25.49               (-8)
Civil works*                                   74.62           313.40/b           +347
Subtotal                                 102.45          338.89              +231
T£raffic Improvement
CiviI works                                    25.94              -            Omitted
Equipment                                      26.08            30.33              +16
Subtotal                                  52.02           30.33              (-42)
Technical Assistance                             61.45            57.57               (-6)
Total (P)                                487.82          973.75              +100
- (us$)                             61.86
Bank Loan                                 32.0            42.5
Cost Sharing                             49%              462                 (-6)
/a Due to substantial change in the original project scope Involving the replacement of a
48" diameter pipeline with 72" diameter pipeline, to accommodate master plan recom-
mendations.
/b Contract bids at June 1981 prices and includes filling of Fisherman's Channel for C2
alignment by NRA and additional works including bridge over Wavotas River and C-2
through into 1agat Dagatan Industrial Commercial area.
/c Reflecting an average exchange rate of 10.6 over the life of the loan.
* Major cost overruns.
Note: All percentages rounded to nearest figure.



~ 49 -                          ANNRX B
Page 2
PHILIPPINES
MANILA tRBAN DEVELOPHENT PROJECT (LOAN 1272-T/1282-PH)
PROJECT COM4PLETION REPORT
Dagat Dagatan Costs
(P '000 - Dec. 1984)
Appraisal
Item                                            estimate       Actual
Land                                                        1,270       12,532
Land reclamation                                           15,250       27,595
Surveys                                                       280          615
Civil Works
On-site infrastructure
Roads/footpaths                                        5,830         9,476
Drainage                                               1,860           450
Electricity                                               190           97
Sewerage                                               5,990        21,912
Water                                                  4,730         7,260
Landscaping                                                -           736
Relocation                                                    370            -
Core tJnits/Home materials loans                          13,900         5,304/a
Community facilities                                       8,120         4,359
Commercial/Industrial buildings                                -         4,454
Administrative building                                                    668
Design and supervision                                  included/b       7,150
Other (mobilization, site preparation,
direct materials, off-site works)                             -        3,096
Total                                             57,790       105,704
X increase                                             -           83%
/a  HMLs have been shown under Tondo Foreshore figures rather than Dagat-
Dagatan.
/b   Design/supervision costs were not shown separately from civil works in
the Appraisal Report, but were incorporated into civil works totals.



- 50 -
ANNEX B
Page 3
PHILIPPINES
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1272-T/1282-PH)
PROJRCT COMPLETION REPORT
Tondo Foreshore Costs
(P '000 - Dec. 1984)
Appraisal
Item                                            estimate        Actual
Land                                                       9,080        22,618
Land reclamation                                            2,620       19,007
Surveys                                                     1,170        2,R25
Civil Works
On-site infrastructure
Roads/footpaths                                       31,300        80,087
Drainage                                              20,400        29,316
Electricity                                              860           142
Sewerage                                              55,930        65,384
Water                                                 21,020        30,121
Landscaping                                                -        12,818
Relocation                                                                 634
Core Units                                        included below/a       8,275
Home materials loans                                       14,610        3,326
Small business loans                                       3,290         1,652
Community facilities                                      34,450        54,485
Commercial buildings                                            -          577
Administrative building                                         -        7,877
Design and supervision                                  included/a      39,536
Experimental area                                           4,250       10,068
Other (off-site works, bonuses and mobilization,
site preparation, etc.)                                  3,830        15,484
Total                                            202,810       404,232
/a   These figures were grouped together with other line items and were not
separated in NRA's accounting system.



- 51 -
ANNEX C
PHILIPPINES
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1272-T/1282-1-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
Cumulative  Disbursements    Actual or Latest    Actual as        Urban
Fiscal      Appraisal           Latest     as X of SAR Est      x of Total      Profile
Year        Estimate   Actual  Estimate              Latest     Loan            Bank-         Year
(SAR)                          Actual   Estimate   OriA. Revsd.   Wide
1977         8.25       0.3                    4                  1              3          Year 1
1978        18.21       5.1                   28                 16             12          Year 2
1979        26.63       9.3                   35                 29             27          Year 3
1980        31.31       13.5                  43                 42             45          Year 4
1981*       32.00/a    17.1                   53                 53             63          Year 5
1982       Completed   23.4                   73                 73             78          Year 6
1983       Completed   29.4                   92                 92             89          Year 7
June 1984   33.20/b    31.5                    95 /b             98              96         Year 8
Dec. 1984   36.80       34.4                  93                        81
Mar. 1985   38.80       35.0                  90                        82                 Current
Mission
June 1985   40.8                 36.0                  88                       100         Year 9
Dec. 1985*  42.5                 39.5/c                93                                  Year 10
Original Loan of $32.Om.
E   Including supplemental loan of $10.5 a.  Special Action Program to provide
Supplesentary Loan for Major Roads Component became effective 05/30/84.
/c   Total Loan draw-down at completion $3.0 below total $42.5 Loan amount due to devaluations.
*    Original closing date of 09/30/81 revised to 12/31/85 under SAP.



- 52 -
ANfD
MANTIA   1A    DEMLOPHIT PROJECT (LOAN 1272T-1282-PH)
PROJWCT COMFLETION iORS
CoMoIAnce wLth Ltoa  Covenants
Overall Compliance
Loan Agreemont                 Last mission       This mission
Reference                       (Oct .184)        (April .86)            Remarks
Article III. Section 3.01      Satisfactory       Satisfactory           Supplemontary Loan
Proampt provision                                                       of U.S. $10.5 million
of adequate funding                                                     effective from May 1984
Article V. Section 4.05        Adequate           Adequate               NUA has a General
Senior Management                                                       Manager vith one
positions                                                               Assistant General
Manager. Fianacial
management is weak.
Article V. Section 5.03(a)    Satisfactory        Satisfactory           NHA's record keeping
Records to reflect                                                      is generally satisfactory.
operations and financial
conditions of NHA
Article V. Section 5.03(b)    Satisfactory        Satisfactory
Audit
Article V. Section 5.04
(a)  Pricing                  Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory          Presidential Decree
issued mandating diffe-
rent pricing
(b) Cost Recovery             Inadequate but    Inadequate, but         See Form 590 of Loan
improving         improving               1821-PH.
Article V. Section 5.05        Unsatisfaetory   ,Unsstisfactory.         No reimbursement has
Reimbursement from                                                      taken place.
Ministry of Public Works
and Highways and
Philippine Ports
Authority



-53 -ANNEX E
Page 1
PUILIPPINES
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1272T-1282-PE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Traffic Manasement Couponent
1.            Project period                              1977-83
Total couponent cost including:              P 120 million
Civil works, equipment and                 Bank financing:  P 50 million
Technical assistance:
Largest component                             Computer controlled traffic signal
system (104 intersections and
8 aid-block pedestrian crossing)
Including closed circuit TV and
spare parts at total cost of
? 52 million.
Principal conclusion                         The traffic signal system reduced
traffic delays by 172, increased
peak hour travel speeds by 102,
while allowing traffic volumes to
increase by 82 to 582 according to
route. Estimated annual fuel
savings are at least 4.7 million
liters. Total accidents have been
reduced 27% and casualty accidents
142.
2.        The subcomponent and their degree of effectiveness are given below:
Traffic Signal System                         very successful - about 302 IRR;
second phase being installed
Pedestrian barriers in median                very effective; crossings were
channeled for desired locations
Pedestrian barriers at curb                  effective to not effective;
dependent on enforcement and
putlic transit availability.
Radio network (for police deployment         very effective; deployment of
and traffic control)                       staff to critical areas is
successful.
Closed Circuit TV (CCTV)                     very effective; assisted in
visualizing problem areas in
traffic control system
Bus/PUJ lanes                                reasonably good self policing;
enforcement needs to be Improved



54                                       - N  
- 54 ~                           Page 2
Bus/Jeepney waiting sheds                     generally effective - too many
hawkers at some locations
No loading/unloading signs                    very unsuccessful - poor enforce-
ment
3. Traffic Enforcement Very Bad
(a) 2-32 of drivers violate intersection rules; up to 24% at some inter-
sections.
(b) at signalized intersections 11.53 pedestrians ignore "redman" sig-
nal.
(c) at pedestrian only crossings, 75Z of pedestrians ignored "redman"
signal (this design solution will no longer be used).
(d) "no loading/unloading" signs iseless due to poor enforcement.
4. Staff Development and Trainin8 of Traffic Management Unit (TEAM)
(a) high turnover rate, engineers are in high demand
(b) long term consultant inputs paid off; cannot expect much payoff in
1-2 year inputs. TEAM still needs limited specialized technical
assistance.
kc) consultant assisted on-the-job training was more useful than formal
training courses in foreign countries.
Internal Rate of Return on Traffic Signal System
With       Without
Category                     tax          taxes                 Comment
Travel time savings          21.7          22.6      P 36 million annual savings
Fuel savings                 16.7           7.3      P 35 million annual savings
Accident savings               not determined        Total accident reduced 272;
casualty accidents reduced
142
Total                   38.4         29.4
Total Capital Cost of Traffic Signals, CCTV, Spare Parts - P 52 million.
Total cost of all TEAM operations 1977-83 - P 148 million.



- 55 -
PHILIPPINES
MANILA URBAN DELOPMENT PROECT (LOAN 1272T-1282-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Results of Xonitorlng the Installation of
Computerized Traffic Sisnala in Sanskok and manila
Bangkok                                                  Manila
The project area is in the Inner core of the city, but   The project area is in the Inner core of Manila, the
is not the uajor problem area.                             most congested part of the city.
Traffic congestion is so bad in Bangkok-that there Is    Traffic congestion in Manila Is also very heavy.
no discernable peak hour - the streets are congested        Streets are congested for most of the day.  Construc-
for most of the day.                                        tion of a light rail system and subsequent rerouting
during and after Introduction of the new signal system
have contributed to increased volumes along the project
route.
Traffic signals vere installed at 48 intersections over  112 signals were Installed - 104 intersections and
an are  of 10.7 sq km.                                      8 pedestrian crossings - and some widening and
channelisation of intersections.
The government plans to expand the system over              Government is expanding the system over 140 intersec-
225 intersections for an approximate cost of $10.4 nil-  tions for an approximate cost of $7.3 million.
lion.
Bangkok        Manila
Cost of installing nev signals &                US$2.2 a      US$5.7 m  Cost in installing new signals, centrs-
centralized computer.                                                    lized computer & closed circuit TV system.
Traffic volume increase over project              7-8%          8-58S    Traffic volume increase over project
period                                                                   period - peak hours.
System speed increase - over all hours.           +24Z         +10.32   System speed increase - for all peak hours
New average speed on routes                     18 km/h       19.3 km/h  New average speed on routes.
No accident surveys were conducted.                 -            -272    Accidents at intersections declined.
Stopping time decreased (intersections)          -24.82         -63%    Stopping time decreased - between and at
intersections.
Annual fuel savings - cars only                   +112          +6.22    Annual fuel savings - cars only (1980 USS)
(1979 US$)          - all vehicles                +18S
Annual fuel savings in $ - cars only            US$2.3 m      US$4.7 m  Annual fuel savings in $ - cars only (1980
(1979 USS)               - all vehicles         US$5.1 m                 USS)
System speed for buses increased                 +19.6%           -      Bus speed surveys were not taken.
Rate of return not calculated                       -           29.3%    Internal rate of return (calculated on
time and fuel savings.)



PHTLIPPINES
MANILA URBAN DEVFLOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1272-T/1282-1-PH)
PROJFCT COMPLETION REPORT
Studies
Actual Study                            Cost      Start/Completion                      Borrower's Remarkfs
' Implementing Agency                                       Dates                           Regarding Usefulnees
Municipal Services for the Metro          $?58,000        1978-1980        The studv provided the basis for the conceptualization
Manila Area ('"  .TROFINDS")                                               of the MMINUTR Program which was later funded under
MPWR (DPWTC)                                                  the llrban III Loan Package.
Metro Manila Transport                    $650,000        1977             The MMETROPLAN study formed the basis for subsequent                      I
Ctwm Land Use Study                                                       Investment planning in Metro Manila (CIF study).                          tj
(MMMETROPLAN)                                                             Findings of the study partteilarly on transport and
MMPW  (DPWTC)                                                        traffic management were implemented (LRT & TFAM).
Other proposals and findings under the study are still
being considered for Implementation by MPMR and NOTC.
Fiscal Base of Metropolitan               $134,000        3 years         The study generated:
Manila Commission (MMC)                                   (dates NA)       (a)  proposed market code for Metro Manila;
(b) a proposed revenue code for Metro Manila; and
(c) a report on special assessments.
Cadastral Survey                          $424,000        3 years         Original survey was to update the existing survey
MPWR (DPWTC)                              (P 4.5 i a      (dates NA)      which covered only half the area.  Cadastral survey
with Bureau of Lands as lead agency       10.6)                           was undertaken for almost 60% of the Metro Man1la
Area. Base maps were prepared for some local
governments which can be used as basis for tax
mapping.
Organization, Management and              $100,000        1972-78         IUseful.  Helped amalgamate the systems and records of
Financial Planning for the NRA            (P 3.2 m e                       the various institutions which were merged to form
NSA                     10.6                             NRA.
Feasibility Study for the Second                          1977             Very useful.  Led to the appraisal and implementation
tlrhan Development Project                                                 of Urban IT.
NRA                                                                                                                                I
National Transportation Investment        NA              NA               NA
Plan for 1977-80; National Transport
Systems Study
DPWTC



-57-                                      ANNEX -
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MANIL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1282/1272 TW-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Housing Agencies in the Philippines
A.   Financial Asencies
(1) Home Development Mutural FundS HDMF ot "PACIBIC" is a mandatory
provident fund (refundable payroll tax) for all formal sector
employees and employers. About 851 of stipulated "contributions"
are passed on to the National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation
(NHMFC) which in turn purchases primary mortgages granted to HDMP's
members from loan-originating instituions. NHMFC currently pays 12%
interest to HDMP for use of its funds. This covers EDMF's operating
expenses and dividend payments on members accounts, currently 101.
(2) National Rome Mortgage Finance Corporations NEMVC is a secondary
mortgage institution which purchases first mortgages from loan-
originating institutions. NEIMC invests HDMF trust funds in short-
term time deposics and government securities, and floats bonds to
raise additional resources. Bonds are currently offered at 151.
The mortgages it purchases yield 91 and 161, depending on lending
criteria.
(3) Home Financing Corporation: HFC insures all residential mortgages
purchased by NHMFC and housing construction loans. Other mortgages
can also be insured by EFC, but these represent only a small percen-
tage (perhaps 101) of home loans originated in the Philippines.
B. Production Agencies
(1) National Housins Authority: NIA currently is the only government
agency engaged in volume production of low-income housing projects,
largely with World Bank loans and government equity and subsidy
contributions. Serviced sites and slum upgrading constitute most of
NHA's program, with some resettlement, new construction and small
business loan activity. The agency produces over 17,000 units per
year. NKA originates long-term mortgages which to date the NEMPC
has not yet purchased.
(2) Human Settlements Developmet Corporation: USDC is primarily
involved in the shelter sector through its wholly-owned subsidiary,
the BLISS Development Corporation, which constructs about 2,000
subsidized apartments and high- to medium-cost units per year. The
BLISS program was established to demonstrate to the private sector
that moderate cost housing could be profitable. The private sector
has responded by starting to build both moderate cost and mixed



-58 -                                     AZnnX I
Page 2
ineous housing, currently putting BLISS in direct competition with
the private sector.
(3) National Housing Corporations NHC produces and warehouses building
materials, which it sells to governmet agencies and private
developers. Currently, NBC's major undertaking is the production of
"flezihomes", prefabricated units which the Government hopes to
produce at low cost for low-income families. NHC's goal is mass
production to reduce materials costs.
C.   Regulatory Agency
(1) Human Settlements Regulatory Comnission: HSaUC implements all laws
and regulations relating to housing development and construction,
including soning, land use and subdivision requiirements. Until
recently, the regulatory process for approval of housing projects
was lengthy, but HSIC has successfully cut the processing time from
six months to as little as two weeks. HSRC's most important accom-
plishment has been to revise the building code and subdivision
standards to make them more compatible with sites and services
projects, enabling private developers to legally penetrote lower
cost markets.
rn addition to the above agencies which are directly under the
authority of MHS, the Government Service Insurance System (GSIS) and the
Social Security System (SSS) offer mortgage loans to their members at low
interest rates and for smaller amounts than the HDNF-NBMFC-UPC system. In
turn, they are reaching somewhat lower income groups than the MES finance
system, though not as low as the beneficiaries of the National Housing
Authority's projects. The GSIS and SSS are not, however, major contributors
to shelter finance.



1985
NATIONAL HOUSING AUTHORITY ORGANIZATIONAL CHRT
|  BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
I
GENERAL MANAGERIOFCEFTH
OFFCEOFTHE
ASSISTANT GENERAL MANAGER             AUDITOR
EXECUTIVE
SERVICES     
GROUP
PORPORATE CORPORATE  OFFICE
PLANNING   PERATIONS OF THE                                                                           I
NFCICE  SYSTEMS  CORPORATECU
VPOFFICE    SECRETARY
FINANCIAL                       PROJECT                      PRONECT                  CORPORATE
SERVICES                        TECHNICAL                    SUPPORT                  SUPPORT
GROUP                  ~~~~~~SERVICES                SERVICES                 SERVICES
GROUPGROUP                   GROUP                    GROU
E-A                      VICE                                 -   JOINT       MERCESTASCONTRACTSI  H
FIN       TREASURY GCCOUNT    PRWECT   ENGINEER    DMINIS-         LATIONSLIVELIHOO  GENEL  RESOURCE N      LEGAL
DEPT.    DEPT.    DEVPT.   OING  DEPT. TPRTION        INFO.    EVELOP   SERVICESPRJEC/T. SEDEPT. E
DEPT.                 ~~~~~~DEPT.   |DEPT.    I  PNS. DEPT MENTBEP. IDEPT.  JDEPT.   I 
IN-OUPS1E                      GOVERNMENT   ||PRIVATE    1                    | ESTATES 1
PR   JE T                         PR JE T                      SE TO                  GROU
Sstt~GOU                                 GRUPGRU



i~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
ji !~ |  
I           I
z~~~~~~2 Ie
,              - ~~~~~~09 



- 61 -
ANNEX I
198.                                                     -page 3
PHILIPPINES
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NATIONAL HOUSING AUTHORITY
ORGANIZATION CHART
PROPOSED BY WORLD BANK BUT NEVER ACCEPTED NOR IMPLEMENTED BY NHA
Board of
Directors
General                           Member of Mansgment
Manager                             Coordination Board
Asst. Gen. Manager
Member of
Exftut"             ~~~~Technical
Saft     f               Secretaiat
r
Forward Program                           Project Dev.
1 A4ministration                        and Evaluatiof                        and Implementation
II3                                          Dirtorector       _Diretor
Per_onnel                               Metro-Manila              Also
Personnel                               Forward                        _        Pa>i cts              Reiports
Trand                                 Programming                                ZIP                   to
Training                                   5S&                                           5     --b" Technical
Secretarbt
External                               Regional
Controllers                              F inance                               Projets
and Accotunts                              Budget                                   SIR
Control                                 PON
Special 
Monitoring                              Projects
Management                               Evaluation                         Dagat Dagatn etc
Legalndustrial
~4   Lsgal  l                                                        -| Deaopmentand |
| Promotion 
WVorld B18k -2083



- 62 -
ANNEX J
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1272-T/1282-1-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Mortgage Development Cost/MonthlY Charge
(Split Cost Allocation Formula) /a
P million
Appraisal
(including
Price Esc)            Actual
DEVELOPMENT COST
(Residential, L, mercial and industrial)
Tondo eagrading
Land/reclamation/survey                            12.87              44.45
Drainage                                           20.40              29.32
Internal roads/footpaths                           31.30              80.08
water/sewerage                                      MWSS               MWSS
Electricity                                       MERALCO            MERALCO
Barangay Centers                                    0.84               3.30
Other                                                  -              11.06
Landscaping                                                           12.36
Design and supervision                           included             19.87
Experimental area                                   4.25              10.07
Subtotal                                      69.66            210.51
DaRat Da atan
Land/reclamation/survey                            16.00              15.88
Drainage                                            1.86               0.45
Internal roads/footpaths                            5.83               9.48
Water/sewerage                                      MWSS               MWSS
Electricity                                       MERALCO            MERALCO
Barangay Centers                                    n.15               0.35
Landscaping                                                            0.74
Other                                                                  2.55
Design and supervision                            included             2.84
Subtotal                                      23.84             32.29
Total                                         93.50            242.80



-63-                              ANNEX J
Page 2
Pesos
Appraisal
(including
Price Esc)         Actual /a
Saleable-Area (m2)
Residential                                     1,021,000           845,294
Commercial & industrial                          220,900            157,857
Total                                     1,241,900          1,003,151
Development cost per m2                                75               242
Less: Cross Subsidy
Industrial/Commercial area profit                    100.02             37.61
Payments from line agencies                           18.10                 -
Total Profit (mln)                            118.12             37.61
Total per m2 Residential                     115.70              44.50
NET DEVELOPMENT COSI                                  (profit)            197.50
Plus:  (a) Administration (6%)                              -             11.85
(b) Interest during construction                    -              94.21
(12% - 7.5 years)
Total                                            -             303.56
APPROPRIATE CHARGE PER m2 (Residential Mortgage)
Development cost per ma                                  75               242
Less Cross Subsidy per m2                               115             44.50
Net development cost                                      -            197.50
Net development cost including markups                    -            303.56
Purchase price per m2                                     -            303.56
NMothly charge per m2 (12%/25 years)                      -               3.23
CHARGE IMPOSED UNDER PD1314
Purchase prije per m'
- Land per a                                              -              5.00
- Development including core units                        -             90.20
Total                                             -              95.20
Monthly charges per m2 (12%/25 years)                       -               1.01
/a Separate recovery of MWSS, MERALCO infrastructure through normal monthly
charges.  Costs are net of HMLs, SBLs, Comm. Facilities, Commercial/Admin.
buildings and core units.
/b Calculated on a construction period of 1 year at appraisal and 7.5 years
actual.



-                                                                     PlIlLIPPIUS
M1 LA 0mu DEM3LOEBNT PUJT (LOA  1272-T/1282-1-PI)
PROJECT 401.T    REPORT
Cost Allocatloo
(P mtilon)
Actual  t-Splt  ricin& Formia  a                                Actual Cost-Price per PI1314
Appraial                                  3 , Bftcioriee                                            3eeficir1tr_____
Umnefl1-                                         Indirect                                                  IT    *t
clartes           Nt '1                 Direct   mSS a                     Nat'l                 Dlrect   Has8 &                    Nat'l
Total    direct            Govern-      Total    charge   VUALCO   9Snef.           Covern-      Total    charge   NERALCO   benat.          Cover-
z      (S) chbrgee       R mu  tat          t    (1)   /b      charges   Total  N1A   smt          ]Wt    (S)   /b      charges   Totl w   IIA    mt
Toldo Uparading            203   (422)    165          -      38      404   (412)  224         113     337      9      58
(IOO2)           (812)      -     (192)  (10)           (552)    (282)  (832)  (22)   (152)
Dmpt Dgtan S/S              58   (122)    49           -       9      106   (112)    42         32      74      1      31
(1002)           (852)            (15S)   (1002)          (402)    (302)  (70Z)   (I1)   (292)
Subtotal             261    (542)    214        -       47      510  (522)   266        145     411      10      89       510   (522)   188        145      333     88      89
(1-f)            7M)        -Z    (Mii)   (-iW)          T)         NU)  NoW    7-2)   (-I F)    (I o-o)            TM)        aT28)   -(-5)  (-TZ)   (-S)
Sm_roge Otfoll              11    (22)      11        -        -       37   (42)    -           37      37      -       -        37    (42)      -         37      37      -       -
YAjor toads and BrIdgs    102   (212)         -        -     102      338  (352)    -            -       -      -     338       338   (352)    -            -       -      -     338
Traffie                     52   (112)                        52       30   (32)                 -       -      -      30        30    (32)      -          -       -      -      30
Tecbhical Asistace          61    (122)                       61       58   (62)    -            -       -      -      58        58    (62)    -            -       -      -      58
Total                 488   (100)    225          -     262      974  (IOoS)   266        182     448     10     516       974   (IOOZ)   188        182     37(G    88     516
(ia)                              WM) ~ 3n2)   (1002)     (72-)    TIS)   (62)   Ti2)   (530)    (I0oo)                S       Tilz)  7iS3)  7Sz)  Ts3k)
/a   Before PD 1314 vhleb altered the price per 2.
/b    _ness Loans, fb_ lbterial loan, Core UMith a        la  t mortgages.
:



m3 .4 O33* D3VWI         P¢t (t0*X 1272-?/32-1-PN)
maz.t ~M*O2auSwe
(Oudac                      at AWptpal)
teal V.atimt                Actual Cost Ao     ctata (Soft) Poriee
Allocated to:                                   Mt' Iow't            -ci                                                    tlt              0. P01314
VsQG-       atatattia,Safiica
Total   ftciat        3W9, M*    Tot*1  lcbt    NM                  mttx1  Total   Diret   maS                                    tl 
eoat    totl  ORA        Wt        Cat   eharga   NKRC0   Total    WA4   Cet   eoat    heas             1AL@  Total  IIIA   g t
IAMd. Note,"  tecIatlot.    12.07    12.3?    -         -        4.43    44.41       -      44.41    _        _       44.4A     _        _       _      _        _
Ctvitl Week
Ocatasga                   20.40    20.40    -       -         29.11    29.12      -      29.32    -        -      29.12
XtacIaeaatqu               76.n     74.43    -       -         9.30       -      9.30   n1.30    -          -      n.30       -      n.3    9.30    -
Uaada/tootpat31.10                  31t.30    -      -         60.09    80.09      -      SO.0"                    8.09
Ulactrcttty                0.6       0.66    -       -          0.14      -       0.14    0.14    -         -       0.34      -      0.14    0.14   -         _
Othat                       3.63      -       -      3.813     t6.12     11.06 1    4.9   101      -       0.11    16.12      -        -              -      0.1t
1ieiae a      twiou       iacld.      -       -      -         39.S      39.6?   12.19   32.046   o.c      *49    39.4        -       4.95    4.9    -       *.49
aiPla8s                     -                                  I _  _  32.82  12.#6  -    12.16    -       0.46    12.82      -      12.19    12.19   _      0.44
sasoL                  33*3       -       _       -          -      _        :       _         -     :         :            :            :           
Omit  factitlitia            34.43     0.k   -    33.63          S4.49L4   3.30      -       3.30    -       1.19    54.49      -       -        -      -     51.19
oe  OtitatqtA                14.43    14.6                       I so       1 Go1-0  11.60           -        -      31.60    3.00      -       S.00  6.40A    -
Smll b.iuaa  Tama             3.29     3.29    -       _          1.43      1.45     -       1.6s    -        -       3.63    3.41      -       1.43    -       -
apateatal Aba                 4.23     4.25    -                 10.07    10.07      -      10.0      7       -      10.07      -       -        -
Ce_cil et t  d.               -         -       -      -          *.45si    0.37     -      0.57   7.88       -       8.3    0.O7       -       0.5?  7.8       -
totel                            f 15."   -    3744        40414    224 34 5L7          7       ." - -   -         -       Z-
_
Lood.   R* bcta*tioa         34.80    16.00    -      O.SL0t    40.74      15.468    -      IS."     -      24.86    40.74      -                       _     24.16
civil 'o*e
Dradaag,                    1.4      1.6    -        -          0.45     0.45      -      0.43    -         -       0.45      -       -        -      -       -
b6.clac_ga -10.72    30.72    -                      -I - 7               -      2S.7   29.17    -          -      29.17      -     29.37    29.17   -        -
3modatf.atpatlm             S.83     5.83    -       -          9.40     9.43      -       9.4     -        -       9.4       -                - 4-
hlazctricty                0.39      0.39    -       -          0.10      -       0.10    0.10    -        _        0.10      -      0.10    0.10   -
Ott                          -        -       -      -          3.30     2.53    0.55    3.10    -          -       3.10      -      0.n3    0.3      -
tiu & .e mpavioa          el ed       -       -      -          ?.1.3     2.84    2.16    5.00   0.05    2.30       7.13      -      2.16    2.16   -        2.t0
Asia n                                -       -      -          0.7      0.74      -      0.74    -         -       0.74      -       -        _      -       _
0_sty facilitia.             6.12      0.13    -      7.97        4.36     0.5       -      0.33    -       4.01      4.36      -       -        -     -       4.01
ea "ita/NWq                 34.27    14.27    -            -      3.30f   3.30      -        .30    -            -    3.30    3.30      -        .3    - 
c iatl/iAnis.                 -         -              -          S3.1     4.45      -      4.43   0.47 6             3.11    4.45      -       4.45  0.67      -
_wbeta                  Himn     * .et    _        .77     Luau7     42A     II       t  2     on    30. I7   te570Z
1                     (S)        T              (VW    (                WitaR '9W  (MU                                                     -   -    - -
"bDitet of a l chaga
mmd.? Dtt                     -         -      _       _          _         _        _       _          _       _      _       31j.5t   -    ibis    -         _
fx$~                  tin   TNY                  w                    (52 -MU -w  Ti  Tw                               - MT  M w   MY" 
outtall                      1t.30    3I.30    -                  37.03      -      37.0    303       -         
$bjo*r *ad. 6 bridge.         102.45      -      -   1            33.9            -                          3.89   3387         -      37.03   37.03   -    338.9
traffic                        52.02      -       -     2.02       30.33      -        -       -       -      30.33    30.3       -       -        -     -      30.33
vebatal" Asetatsuce           63.43                    61.63       37.37      -        _       _       _      3t.31    57.57     -        -I-            -      5.3
w     $  wL  _  w    w   w  19  w   ! wL  w. lq?W. w. w.27Z449                                                            ta,-W. }. 3g                                          b
g Sciti  rt rO lod tot  w.n
aa caa6a" o O fataca   8t-10. 0-2. 0-3 amd opme rook1 aoarc  tcvmm Sp  39.
P P7.8 a *ddle. builditn  Chaien  to gA, teat to .i.cctal taildilp thed to baatticatcia  dicattly.
,d  Of the 34.49 total C_. tae., 31.19   ed  to VW8 far aclola, * 3.3 a ditret o11   fo4 tfor t*vcagY castor.
au D  4d  GeaPtswito aPPOctioed pat Subttal of  I_ttra  eat of ltad  nelm_tton.
oAal c   an c;te II3 so" *Il eshom  *dar Taio Pocealoca.
o         a, a.3.3 ma *., emat "S coca usita.
l2  pric" for cor _its met cthaed.  WA abtdited.
S" attawd  oter for detalls.



- 66 -
ANNEX K
Page 3
Notes
P 266,360,000    Total costs chargeable directly to beneficiaries Dagat
Dagatan and Tondo
1,650,000   Less:    SsLs under separate loans - Tondo
11,600,000            RMLs core units under separate loans - Tondo
5,300,000  H1L's core units under sept loans - Dagat Dagatan
580,000   Commercial - Tondo
4,450,000   Commercial Dagat Dagatan
242.780.000   Total Land and Development Cost
1,003,151   Total saleable m2 area Dagat Dagatan and Tondo (Res & CI)
242.02   Per m2 direct charge to beneficiaries which should have been
charged for all land use. Both residential and commercial.
44.49   Less:  Profit per m2        10,087,000   Projected profit
Commercial Dagat
Dagatan t
12,574,000   Industrial Profit
Dagat Datagatan I
14,747,000   Profit Commercial
Tondo (no ind.)
200,000   Accelerated Bliss
Dagat nagetan I
37,608,000
2                        845.294   Total residential z
197.53   per a  direct charge             44.49   Cross subsidy per  2
which should have been
made for capital recovery
after actual cross subsidy
from profits /a
106.07   Plus:  6S Administration         11.85
Interim interest
during construction 94.22
(7.5 years - 122)
Total    106.07
303.60   Total which should have been
charged including markups
95.20   Actual charge per PD1314
482   2 actual vs charge which should have been made (capital
only).
312   2 actual vs. charge which should have been made including
markups.
Actual charges to direct beneficiaries:
170.58   (a)  Residential land area 845,294 m2 x P 95.20 - 80.47 u
receivable
(b) Total from:
-   Tondo commercial 74,209 m2 x P 654.4 -   48.56 n
receivable
-   Dag. Dag. Commercial 24,000 *2 x P 693 - 16.63 a
receivable
-   Dag. Dag. Industrial 42,380 i2 x P 588   24.92 a
receivable
170.58 m
/a If total charges for CI in Tondo and Dagat Dagatan of 90.11 are deducted
from P 24 ,780,000 total colt, net residential cost should be P 152.67 a e
845,294 m - P 180.60 per m . Differences due to Additions to CI units.
95.20 actual charge - 532 of capital charge which should have been made
net of mark ups.



PRILIPPINES
MANtLA URBAN DVLOI'IEENT PROJECT (LOAN 1272-T/1282-1-PH)
PROJECT CoNPLPTZON RRPORT
Ttarnover
Tondo                                                            Control Oroup Areas
Reign
teblocked      reblocked      Unreblocked
Number of households                           areas           areas          areas           Total          Yslabon      Mandaluvong      Peranaque        Total            I
-                                                            _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
N      2       N      2       b        2      2                      2        N      2       N      2        S     2
That moved out of structure                   30   11.7      48   t8.1      i26    22.3    344   20.1       49   31.3      52   21.9       S5   29.5       156  27.0
That stayed tn structure                    227             217             927          1,371              98             185            138             421
Total In 1478                                257            265           1,193           1,715            147             237            193              577
That moved Into the structures                25   11.0      40   15.1      220    18.4    285   16.6       26   17.7       41   17.3      35   19.1       102  17.7
Net addittonal because of
sptlttttng/erging                           -               -              22             22               -             -1               1                -
Total In 1979                               252             257           1,169           1,678            124            225             174              523



I,/ eV< <7/ a" -,) <>' &'5 :
_- ,g 27 



ANNEX H
Page 1
- 69 -
ZCZC DIST9089 RCA 4492
OEDOD
REF : TCP1 MET
RCA4492
248423 WORLDBANKYUKINORI WATANABE
DIRECTOR, OPERATIONS EVALUATION DEPT
INT BAFRAD
ACKNOWLEDGE RECEIPT OF YOUR 22 NOV 85 LETTER AND DRAFT COPY
OF PCR ON LOAN 1272/1282-1-PH. IN REPLY TO YOUR TELEX OF
10 FEB 86, PLEASE BE INFORMED THAT WE HAVE NO COMMENTS AS
WE FIND SAID PCR IN ORDER.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
BEST REGARDS,
ROQUE ARRIETA MAGNO
ACTING PROJ DIRECTOR, PSSP
248423 WORLDBANK.....
ABOVE VIA PHILCOM FROM 22658 NHMFC PH
=02190923
=02190755
ALT RTD FROM:OFOM
NNNN



,)/,- e{lS#         . t /  6 ss'FE    t 9/ 
-  .- v     - @
(I



- 71-                        ANNEX M
ZCZC DIST7180 RCA2018                                           Page 2
OEDOD
REF : TCPI MET
000/1 02-06 1034A EST
TLX 71248423 248423 WORLDBANK
BT
1-000125A037 02/06/86
ICS IPMRYNG RNO
00071 RENO NV 02-05 0912P PST RYNE
ICS IPMWGWB
1-221799G036 02/06/86
ICS IPMTTHX IISS
IISS F M WUW 05 2241
PMS WASHINGTON DC
HPA493 AMY/CUY9017 D445
UDNX CD PSMA 093
CUBAOQC 93/92 Op5 835 VIA CAPWIRE
MR YUKINORI WATANABE
DIRECTOR, OPERATIONS EVALUATION DEPARTMENT
THE WORLD BANK WASHINGTON, D.C. U.S.A.
REURLET DATED 22 NOV 85 ON THE PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (PCR)
ON PHILIPPINE MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT, REGRET WE ARE
lVNABLE TO MEET UR DEADLINE 29 JANUARY 1986 FOR SUBMISSION OF OUR
COMMENT. OUR INITIAL REVIEW OF DRAFT PCR INDICATES THAT NHA'S
POSITIONS IN CERTAIN CRITICAL ISSUES ARE NOT REFLECTED AT ALL
OR INACCURATELY STATED WE REQUEST EXTENSION OF YOUR DEADLINE
TO 15 FEB 1986 INASMUCH AS OUR COMMENTS WILL BE SENT TO YOU
BY MAIL. REGARDS
GENERAL TOBIAS
COL 22 NOV '85 29 1986 15 1986
NNN
0012 EST
1034 EST
=02061054
ALT RTD FROM:OEDM
NNNN



i\ 
>'



t _ ~73 @';!
ANNEX M
Ministry of Human Settlements                        Pagc 3
NATIONL HOUSING AUITHORITY
11 February 1986
Mr. Yukinori Watanabe
Director
Operations Evaluation Department
World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U. S. A.
Dear Mr. Watanabe:
This has reference to the final draft of the Project Completion
Report (PCR) on Tondo Foreshore Project. Once again, I would like
to express mW appreciation for giving us the opportunity to comment
on the draft report.
We have reviewed the above-mentioned report a,d we noted that
certain statements in the report which we previously proposed to be
changed or deleted in the earHier drafts of the PCR, have been
retained in this final drift.
In particular, I would like to reiterate our concern over
certain items which as discussed in the report, may undermine the
shelter program for marginal and low income families as a whole.
We propose that the treatment of the item be presented as follows:
1. Cost Recovery .(p. 12 para 3.10)
Initially, cost recovery wasone of the weakest
aspects of project implementation because of the slow
start-up of collections in Tondo.  Recent figures
however, show considerable improvements.
2.  Profits from C/I Areas (p.23 Para 5.03)
In the review of the performance of the conmercial/
industrial areas, the case of the Vitas should be
considered. Although the sale of lots from this area was
included in the computation of Project financial perform-
ance, the revenues from commercial areas do not include
the Vitas Industrial area.
Quezon Memorial Elliptical Road, Diliman, Quezon City * Tel. Nos. 994561 to 66



-74                                 ANNEX M
Page 4
3. Institutional Performance and Development (P.34 Para, 6.17
To dismiss the project's institutional objectives
as lintited to building NHA's production capacity is
incorrect. The Tondo project was envisioned to be the
Model Project for the Authority's Slum Upgrading Program
throughout the country.
4. Cost Overruns (p. 19 Para 4.08)
The term cost overrun immediately implies poor
management on the part of the Authority but this is not
true in the case of the Tondo Foreshore Project. The
cost differential between actual project cost and esti-
mates in Staff Appraisal Report is due to several factors
identified as follows:
(a) for Tondo, delays in start-up, underestimated
quantities for land fill and reclamation work
due to unforeseen subsurface conditions and
obstructions; and the generally higher labor
and materials costs owing to major petroleum
increases.
(b) for Daaat-Da atan, land cost was higher than
appraisale  stimate; reclamation work was
higher and the construction of sewer system
increased from original estimates.
(c)  for roads and bridges, major delays in start-up.
(d) for several outfall,increased scope of work
for inteFieptor and watermain across the
C-2 highway4
We therefore, propose to substitute the term cost
variance for cost overrun. This term appropriately
describes the difference between the actual project
cost and the cost estimates in the report since these
two sets of figures (i.e., the actual cost and the
estimates) are not comparable.
The details of the above and some of our conments on oth3r
matters are attached.
Thank you for your continuing support
Very ruly yours,
G.    TOBIAF
Maj Gen  AFP (et)
General Manager



MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COMPLETION REPORT
February 1986
REFERENCE                                    WORLD BANK                                          NHA COMMENTS
p. ti Financial Performance                         Poor                          Not poor but mixed.
p. 5                                 This implies demolition of 2,500             This should be deleted.  Statement
structures as opposed to the 500             should appear as follows:
units...                                             In the DrocesS of introducing
infrastructure imDrovement ig the
project area, there were exclusions
and structures were not necessarily
demolished but layout of these was
only rationalized.
p. 11 Para. 3.07 (b)                 The drainage system does not                 This is not an accurate assessment.
prevent flooding to the extent               Recommend that this be restated as
desirable...                                 follows:
The drainage svter is much
iMDrove  over Dre-1975 lawols.
Nevertheless, the level of the
sea has been increasing over the
last 10 years and flooding is serious
throughout the coastal areas of
Metro Manila.
p. 12 Para. 3.10                     Collection performance promises to           Recommend that this be changed to:
be a difficult task on this site.
Considerable improvement was
achieved in 1984 and 198b and now
a more promising future is
assured.
Ofi



-2-
REFERENCE                               WORLD  BANK                                     NHA COMMENTS
p. 13 Para. 3.15                    Accurate data on collections is              This is not a correct statement.
not available.                               Accurate data is available as evidenced
by NHA Monitoring Reports. Sentence
should be deleted.
p. 15 Figure 1                      Technical Assistance actual                  The Implementation Schedule shows that
duration.                                   Technical Assistance up to the third
quarter of 1985. NHA records, however,
indicate that the last consultancy
contract NHA has for Urban I ended on
February 28, 1982. (see attachedd NHA
Board Resolution).
p. 19 Para. 4.08                    Cost overruns                                An explanatory sentence is needed.
Recommend that this be added -
One reason for  "overruns"
with reference to all project
components was the low level of
physical and pricecontingencies
applied by the World Bank in the
SAR. Cost differential has been
due to several factors among
which are the following:
a. for Tondo, delays in start-up
underestimated quantities for
land fill and reclamation work
where cost variance occured due
to unforeseen subsurface con-
ditions and obstructions, and
the generally higher labor and
materials costs resulting from
the major petroleum price
increases of 1978/79;



-3-
REFERENCE                                  WORLD BANK                                         NHA C w ENTS
b. for Dagat-Dagatan, land cost
varied from the appraisal estimate;
reclamation cost was higher and
the construction of sewer system
also increased from initial
estimates. These items contri-
buted to most of the increased
cost.
c. for-the roads and bridges, major
delays in startup as well as the
price increases noted above.
Designs here were preliminary and
should have been further along
for reclaimed land such as this
where uncertainties can bebigh;
and
d. for the sewer outfall, increased '
scope of work for the interceptor
and watermain across the C-2
highwy as well as the cost
increased noted in (a).
p. 23 Para. 5.03                       Profits from C/I Areas                          Statement is too sweeping.  Recommend
that this be rewritten to include the
saga of Vitas Area from which NHA hoped
to earn considerable revenues. It will be
GS~~~~~~0



-4-
REFERENCE                                 WORLD BANK                                  NHA COMMENTS
recalled that this portion was trans-
ferred to the Phil. Ports Authority
which to date has not made any
development in the area. Recomiend
a paragraph be added as follows:
.The NHA has always contended
that the Vitas Industrial Area is
an integral Dart of the Tondo
Foreshore P-roJect. and that Drgfi ts
rmn the Aisnosal of servuiced lots
would be used-to cross subsidize
the prices of the residential
area.  In this rea_rd Presidential
Executive Order 749 under which the
PPA who became the administrators
of the area are directed to make
good the estimated P117 N profit.
p. 23 Para. 5.04                    ... the P188 M expected profit.            Should read as P118 M.
p. 25 Para. 5.10                    The premature mandating of the sale        P.D. 1314 was not prematurely mandated.
price in Tondo under PD 1314 damaged       It was done after much deliberation.
the project's cost recovery...             The price of 95.00 per sq.m. mandated
by P.D. 1314 wasthe idea of a World
Bank staff who picked it up from R.A.
1597. Nobody anticipated the tremendous
cost escalationas a result of the
oil crisis of the late 70's.
co



-5-
REFERENCE                                WORLD BANK                                  NHA COMMENTS
p. 26 Para. 5.11                     Despite cost overruns and              Recommend that this be rewritten as
protacted delay.                      follows:
Although costs increased and
project completion was delayed, it
aDeears the : .-iect would have met
and even exceeded its affordability
target of 85% based on actual costs.
p. 26 Para. 5.13                     ... leasehold with option to          Paragraph should be rewritten as
purchase (Conditional Contract        follows:
of Sale -  CCS)...the Authority
decided to revert the CCS...                Initially,the anticieted fom
of tenrure--was-a leasgWold witn _ption
to Durchase. The Authority decided to
introduce the Conditional Contract to
Sell uder which titles would only be
issued upon the final payment by bene-
ficiaries of all accounts due. However.
another option was adopted to allow
outright sale of title to prolect
beneficiaries. Thus. the shift to
deed of sale [title) with mortgage
I(M"1--The present administration
committed to the meople of Tondo titles
to their individual homelots. There was
therefore pressure upon NHA to convert a



-6-
REFERrNCE                                     WORLD BANK                                   NHA COMMENTS
a number of CCSinto DSM. NHA also
experienced difficulties in exoropria-
tion proceedinas. At the time of
writinQ. NHA Dossessed title to two
thirds of the area. Some form of
contract was      red to initiate
colleciL L renu n 1984 uthp Authority
decided to revert to the CCS for
properties as yet untitled since it
represented the only 2ractical alternative.
p. 27 Para. 5.14                   Heavy price escalation of 50-60% in          NHA is not aware of any pricing
1974 as well as pricing                      irregularities.  It is sugqested that
irregularities..,                            any statement alluding to such
a,legation be deleted.
0
p. 27 Para. 5.1>k                  Cost recovery has-been singularly            Sentence should be rewritten as follows:
the weakest aspect of project                       Initially, cost rec.overy was
implementation.                                 one of tne wea-kest -aspects of
project imDlementation.
p. 28 Para. 5.1'                   Poor collection performance  ...              Recommend that sentence be restated
as follows:
The initial low level of
collections is partially attributable
to the sw start-u  of initialL
collections in Tondo, where there
was no previous histor  oft



-7-
REFERENCE                               WORLD BANK                                         NHA C OM ENTS
p. 30 Para. 6.01                     The project's institutional objectives        This is not a correct statement.  It
did not go much beyond ... and a              will be recalled that at its inception
viable cost recovery performance which        the Tondo Project was to serve as a
was not as of the date of this report.        model Project to bereplicated in
similarly-circumstanced conmnunities
throughout the country. The whole
idea of slum upgrading was to steer
away from expensive conventional
construction technology. The concept
was to improve living conditions of
the people by introducing facilities
amenities within the community and allow
the families to improve their housing
units as their income permits.
p. 30 Para. 6.05                     .... .the NHA's management of its             Attention and management of collections
financial affairs was similarly               was weak to begin with but to dismiss
weak.                                         the whole financial management of NHA
as weak as is too strong.
p. 31 Para. 6.09                    While other housing agencies in                There is no evidence to support this
other countries have doubtless                statement. Recommend that it be
traversed these stage more                    deleted from the paragraph.
rapidly than the NHA . . .
p. 31 Para 6.13                      . . .Accounting practices are                 Statement is too strong.  This is not
deficient in certain respects.                reflective of NHA's overall accounting
procedures. Recomend that no mention
of such deficiencies be made unless
supported by facts.
p. 33 Para. 6.15                    Under Urban II and Urban III.                  Statement is inaccurate. Recommend
that it be reiritten as follows:
Urban II and Urban III expanded
programs fin regional cities and
metro manila, ......



-8-
REFERENCE                              WORLD BANK                                      NHA COMMENTS
p. 34 Para. 6.17                    NHA and MHS                                  Paragraph should be -
NHA belongs to the wnbrella ora-
nization of the Ministrv.of Human
SettlemenstsT    Authority has so-Id
a few condominiMus to NHMFC and it
is now in the Drocess of taoDina
sales of its low income serviced site
mortgage portfolio. A closer
working arranqement is being under-
taken to effect this. There are
encouraging signs  that toQether
the two attached aaencies can
develon a sound orogram of low-income
housing.
p. 42 (d)                           Pricing and Cross Subsidy                    Recommend that the following paragraphs
be added-
Nevertheless, it should be noted
that the revenues from coueri    n
industrial areas do not include the Vitas
Letters of Inatr=cions Nwmber29
area is an intearat Dart of the Tondo
Foreshore Develooment Proiect.  It was
always intended that revenues realized
from the sale of lots in this area would
be included in the computation of proJect
financial performance. Whether or not
ths area was included in that funded
under the First Urban Develogmnent Proiect
is a matter for debate. Conclusive evi-
dence to suoDort its inclusion or its
exclusion is not presented in the
anDraisal reoort.             p



-9-
REFERENCE                           WORLD BANK                                        NHA COMMENTS
The NHA has always considered the
area as part of the project to be develooed
as a site for  aort-orlented industries
and therefore a maior source of revenuec
-for the purpose-s of cross-subsidy. In
this regard-.His Excelenc, the Presidnt,
directed that the PhiliDDine Port Authority
who under Executive Order Number 749 be-
came administrators of the area. make cood
the estimat-ed P-il l million  rf    which wa-
expected to be made. On this basis. the
NHA's computaLtions include these revenues
and as a result show a larger DroDortion of
costs that are likelv to be recovered than
those presented above.
p. 59 Annex I page 3                1980 NHA Organizational Chart                    This was proposed by the WB in the SAR 
for Urban III but was never accepted nor
implemented by NHA. It should be deleted
from the report.



- 84 -
ANNEX M
Republic of the Philippines                        Page 14
NATIONAL HOUSING AUTHORITY
Quezon Memorial Elliptical Road
Diliman, Quezon City
EXCERPT FROM THE MINUTES OF NHA BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING NO. 46
HELD ON 27 FEBRUARY 1981 AT THE BOARD ROOM OF NHA, Q.C.
RESOLUTION NO. 305
Series of 1981
February 27, 1981
RESOLVED, that the consultancy contracts with this Authority
of the following:
1.  Mr. Flemming Jorgensen, as Senior Planning Advisor,
at the contract cost of US$114,000.00 plus local
currency of P275,600.00 for a period of one (1)
year beginning 1 March 1981 to 28 February 1982; and
2. Mr. Eduardo Arguelles, as Senior Engineering Advisor,
at the contract cost of US$105,000.00 plus local
currency of P292,000.00 for a period of one (1)
year beginning 1 March 1981 to 28 February 1982
be, as they are hereby, approved, subject to availability of funds
and existing laws, rules and regulations.
*        *         *
CERTIFIED OORRECT:
.                                     w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R
iMgEO DEC   r SeA rR.
Actilng Corporate Secretary



ANNEX M
-85-                            Page 15
OEDOD
REF : TCP1 MET
RCA2959
248423 WORLDBANKO
12 FEBRUARY 1986
MR. YUKINORI WATANABE
INTBAFRAD, WASHINGTON, D.C.
REUR CABLE 11 FEBRUARY 1986 ON PCR OF MANILA "ROAN DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT.  WE ARE SENDING COMMENTS BY 14 FEBRUARY 1986.  REGARDS,
LOCSIN
NEDAPHIL
248243 WORLDBANK
248243 WORLDBANKMMMMM
ABOVE VIA PHILCOM FROM
29058 NED PH
=Q2120841
=02120522
ALT RTD FROM:DEDM
NNNN



- 86 -
REPUBLIC OF THE PHIL,ePINES                          ANNEX M
NATIONAL ECONOMIC AND DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY    Page 16
NEDA sa Pasg, Amber Avenue
Pasig, Metro Malma
Csae Addres: NEDAPHIL
P.O. Box 419, Gwnhills
Tels. 673-5031 to 50
2.3 February 1986
Mr. Yukinori Watanabe
Director, Operations Evaluation Department
International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington , D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Watanabe:
RE:  Proiect Completion Report on Philippines - Manila Urban
Development Project (Loan 1282/1272 - TW-PH)
Thank you for sending us a copy of the abovementioned report and for
allowing us to give our comments.
Overall, we think that the report is very comprehensive and has correctly
analyzed the critical factors behind the project's perfor.iance, a first
of its kind in the Philippines and in the entire Bank operations. It
contains many useful information for future Bank assistance to the
Philippines as well as to other developing countries. lie observed that
in addition to the project's overall implementation experience, a
substantial portion has been devoted to NHA's institutional maturation
and to the project's cost recovery problem. Thfe report in effect appears
to be audit/assessment of the project as a whole. We would like,
however, to touch further on the following areas:
1. Project Preparation and Design
Wle recognize the urgent need for the project especially during
the period of its inception. In retrospect, however, we note that
the project's basic weakness appears to have been its inadequate
preparation which led to substantial time overruns. Many elements
of the work were not simply foreseen or were not adequately allowed
for in the schedule. The sequencing of work and orchestration of
clearance and settlement were not well understood (par. 406). Road
and other rights-of-way had not been fully cleared when construction
started. The poor soil conditions, flat terrain and absence of
drainage have not been adequately anticipated (par. 406 (c)) which
would later have a bearing on drainaRe conditions in adjacent towns.
FEB 2 5 U6



ANNEX M
- 87 -                                Page 17
The experimental nature of the project, as well as the sen-
sitive issues involved, e.g. relocation of squatters, necessitates
a more thorough understanding of local situations and culture.
Start-up difficulties and the considerable confusion which existed
during initial years of implementation (par. 406 (f))could have been
avoided had there been adequate lead time for intensive community
campaign for the necessity of the project. It was reported that
delays were encountered because residents refused to be relocated.
Relatedly, the beneficiaries could have been informed if not
allowed to participate in the determination of charges they were
supposed to pay prior to project start-up. This could have pre-
vented the anxiety on the part of the community to know what price
they were supposed to pay for their lots (par. 5.03) which necessi-
tated the issuance of PD 1314. Also the problems on collection and
cost recovery being encountered by the proponent could have been
avoided had there been enough community campaign.
2. Maintenance of Project Assets
We recognize the necessity of adequate maintenance in order to
achieve the desired level of benefits and to avoid wastage in
financial resources. The problem should be given its proper focus,
i.e., how this requirement of maintenance could be met. Participation
of beneficiaries should also be encouraged.
3. Project Delays
It would be worthwhile to know whether the project suffered
delays in the delivery of project benefits and to what extent if
ever, as a consequence of delayed project completion and turn-over.
Relatedly, the matter of disappointing cross-subsidy (par. 5.04)
can partly be attributed to the delayed completion. It would be like-
wise informative if time overrun per component could be documented.
4. Selection of Project Beneficiaries
The screening process and criteria adopted in the selection of
project beneficiaries as well as a profile of existing beneficiaries
could be discussed. The criteria for priority allocation could be
useful reference for similar projects in the future. Moreover, the
information would be useful in determining whether the project has
really reached the poor squatter families.
5. Status of Awarding of Titles
The report could make mention of the latest status of awarding
of titles to beneficiaries.



ANNEX M
-88 -                               Page 18
6. Monitoring of Project Outcome
The experimental character of the project also suggests the
need for careful monitoring and evaluation of results.
We hope that our ccnments will be helpful in the finalization of the PCR.
Best regards.
Very truly yours,
ANTONIO M. LOCSIN
Deputy Director-General



-89- '
REJtREJ:THBN;WlD                        ANNEX M
MOFUTRY 07 ~ua~c won AUND NoHIGWAY      Page 19
* 6w                              L2A                 ?1AR 2 J 1986
March 6, 1986
Ms. DONNA HALDANE
Chief, Urban Projects
Supervision Mission                UMan an! ' - "ly D;visbn
The World Bank
1818 H. Street, N.W,                      'r
Washington D.C. 20433                  East._-.
U.S.A.                          Anfswered be  _     ___   _
Re: Manila Urban Development Project
(Loan 1272 T/1282-1-PH)
Project Completion Report
Dear Ms. Handane,
Herewith are our suggested modifications to the
specific portions of the above-captioned report per-
taining to the roads and bridges component.
We hope that these can be considered in the
Project Completion Report to reflect the actual facts
of the project history.
Our best wishes.
Yours sincee 
OS
Deput     i 
/glr
4R 2 1 19"6



AlNEX M
90-                         Page 20
SUGGESTED MODIFICATIONS
page 14 CHAPTZR III MJOR RESULTS
3.11 To render this component more effective and responsive
to the traffic needs of the area, supplemental works
were authorized to be undertaken. At the time of wri-
ting, the original works have been completed while the
said supplmental works aro expected to be completed
mid 1986. Although costs excoedod the estimates during
appraisal, project impacts indicate that the roads and
bridges component have substantively fulfilled its
objectives. Original implementation schedules should
have been timed to allow relocation/resettlement of
affected improvements/dwellings. In retrospect, the
process of clearing the right-of-way could have in-
cluded measures to secure cleared areas before con-
struction could really take off.
page 14 CHAPTER IV PROJECT IMPLBMNTATION AND COST
B. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
4.03 With the delay in project implementation attributed
mainly to right-of-way problems, unrealistic escalation
cost projections which led to the termination of origi-
nal construction contracts and considering that the
original scope of work has increased by about 110%, the
roads and bridges component lagged substantially behind
the overall project, requJring nine years to complete.
While project performance was significantly behind app-
raisal estimates, ultimately the needed major roads and
bridge facilities became operational in time to provide
tho needed access and relief to the worsening traffic
congestion in the area.
4.04 Roads and Bridges: Delay in the roads and bridge cco-
ponent was largely traceable to lack of working area
and delayed implementation. The extended implement-
ation period for the roads and bridges component
could summarily be attributed to the following factors:
1. Termination of the original contracts bid in 7
December 1978 and finally approved March 20,
1998. Unrealistic escalation cost projections
and delayed implementation led to the termina-
tion of the contracts.
2.  Lack of working area due to non-availability of
right-of-way. The social problem of resettling/
relocation of affected families hampered the
clearing of the right-of-way due to issuance of
numerous courtiinjunctions and restraining orders.
3.  Expanded scope of work to include connecting roads
and bridges and other facilities to render the



ANNEX M
-91-                        Page 2e
project more effective and responsive to traffic
needs.
It may be recalled that inter-agency efforts were
involved in this undertaking, i.e., substantial portion
of the right-of-way had to be secured through NHA before
road construction could take off.
page 19  CHAPTER IV  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
C. COSTS
4.08 (b) for the roads and bridges major delays in start-up
of actual construction due to termination of original
contracts, non-available right-of-way and increased
construction costs resulting from the energy crisis.
Field conditions also warranted substantial   changes
in quantity take-off not anticipated during detailed
engineering.



