F
Document of
The World Bank                    FI L E C 0 O Y
FOR OffICIAL USE ONLY
Rqport No.P-1763-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK MOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED LOANS
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
MANIJLA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 17, 1.976
This docut has * reteited distributlon and may be ued by reipents only In the performane of
their afcial duiks. Its coaten  may ." otherwise be diswlosed withot World Bank salborlntlon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                       Pesos  7.50
Pesos 1,000           -       US$133.00
Pesos I million       -       US$133,000
FISCAL YEAR
Through 1976:         July I - June 30
Beginning 1977:       January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
DBP   -    Development Bank of the Philippines
DPII  -    Cepartmenit of Public Highways
DPWTC -    Department of Public Works, Transportation and
Communications
MMA   -    Metropolitan Manila Area
MMC   -    Metropolitan Mantla Commission
MWSS  -    Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
NHA   -    National Housing AuthoriLy
PNB   -    Philippine National Bank
PBSP  -    Philippinc Business for Social Progress
TFDPO -    Tondo Foreshore/Dagat-Dagatan Development
Project Office (formerly Tondo Foreshore
Developmient Authority)-



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED LOANS
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PtlILIPPINES FOR A
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on proposed loans
to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $32 million to help
finance a Manila Urban Development Project. They would consist of a Bank loan
of $22 milLion for a term of 22 years, including a grace period of 5 years,
and an Interest rate of 8-1!2 percent per annum, and a Third Window loan of
$10 million on standard Third Window terms. Of the proceeds of the loans,
$17.6 million would be relent to the National Housing Authority (NHA) on the
same term3 as those of the Bank loan to finance upgrading of the Tondo Fore-
shore, the sites and seTvices development at Dagat-Dagatan and technical
assistance to NHA; $1.3 million would be relent to the Manila Water Supply and
Sewerage System (MWSS) on the same terms as the B-.ak loan for construction of
a new sewer outfall and related works. Of the balance, the Government would
allocate $10.8 million to the Department of Public Highways (DPH) for construc-
tion of major roads, and! for the traffic engineering improvm--nts and $2.3
million to the Department of Public Works, Tranaportation and Communications
(DPWTC) to finance techrilcal assistance.
PART I - THE ECONOMY-/
2.        A basic econortic mii'sion visited the Philippines in April/May 1975
and its report, "The Ph.lippili.s Priorities and Prospects for Development,"
Is expected to be distrlbuted to the Executive Directors in the next few
days. Paragraphs 3-21 below are a suimmary of that report. The previous
economic report, "Currenit Economic Position and Prospects of the Philippines"
(No. 568-PH of November 7, 1974), was circulated to the Executive Directors
on November 11, 1974. Ainex I of this President's Report contains country
economic data.
3.        During the 1960s, the economy grew in real terms at the rate of
5-6 percent per annum. However, the rate of growth was less than the level
tlat might have been achlieved if the considerable natural and human resources
of the Philippines had been exploited more effectively. Moreover, the bene-
fits of growth were not distributed widely and unemployment rose. Low levels
of taxation resulted in Inadequate public Investment in necessary infrastruc-
ture and soclal servicen. Relatively weak export performance, combined with
a failure to reduce the Import dependence of domestic Industry, resulted
in a steady deterioration In the balance of payments position.
4.        During 1970-72, the authorities adopted policies of monetary and
fiscal restraint in order to lay a firm basis for future growth. With
assistance from the Connultative Group, they succeeded in improving substan-
tially the maturity structure of the external public debt. Real GNP during
that period Increased al: about 5 percent a year. In 1972, the Government
I/ This part, except for paragraph 11, which has been added, is the same
as the President's Report for the Chico Irrigation Project - Stage I
(Report No. p-1783-1?H), dated March 11, 1976.
Thi[sdocumenthas armstred distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
oftheiroMcialduties.Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
initiated a serJes of social and economic reforms In the country including
an agrar:an reform program, tax reforms, and an administrative reorganization.
These programs are beginning to show results.
5.        In 1973 there was a sharp increase in the level of economic acti-
vity in the Philippines. This upsurge was led by the international commodity
boom, whlch resulted In higher export incomes, a strong recovery in agricul-
tural and industrial production for the domestic market and an expansion in
public and private Lnvestment. The growth in real GNP doubled to 10 percent.
6.        Like most countries, the Philippines was profoundly affected by the
tumultuous events in the world ecoaomy that began with the jump in the prices
for food and petroleum in late 1973. With international trade the equivalent
of almost hakf of its GNP, the Philippines proved quite vulnerable to the
Impact of world inflation, the increase in oil prices and the prolonged re-
cession In the industrialized countries. This sequence of events has tempo-
rarily frustrated the Government's attempt to accelerate the rate of develop-
ment, and in 1974 GNP Increased by only about 6 percent in real terms.
While adverse effects of the recession were cushioned somewhat in 1974 by a
modest Improvement in the external terms of trade, the Philippines has been
even more seriously affected In 1975 by the continued rise in import prices
and reduced demand for Philippine exports. The real growth of GNP in 1975 is
estimated to have been at about the 6 percent rate of the previous'year.
Improvement in the growth performance in 1976 can be expected only if recovery
takes place in the economietn of the Philippines' main trading partnere.
7.        Agricultural production has grown at an average rate of 3.2 per-
cent per year during the l970s, a period which has been affected by unusually
adverse weather conditions. Rice production increased by 25 percent in
1973-74, but due to serious damage by typhoons, it grew by only 1 percent in
1974-75, and the Government had to import 200,000 tons in the first half of
1975 to ensure adequate stocks. However, initial indications are that the
outlook for rice production in 1975-76 is bright. The Government is giving
the highest priority to Increasing agricultural production and has initiated a
number of programs designed to expand the use of fertilizer, irrigation and
supervised credit.   It has also intensified efforts to expand social services
needed in rural areas, incluiding rural electrification. health and family
planning services as well aa small-scale road and irrigation projects.
8.        Although progress has been slower than initially planned, the
Government has made some progress with its agrarian reform program for the
nation's one million tenant farmers who grow rice and corn. By December 1,
1975, the Government had issued Certificates of Land Transfer in respect of
208,000 of the 424,000 ten"ats on holdings of over 7 he; thus, title to
366,000 ha of the total of 1325,000 ha occupied by such tenants has been
transferred. The Government has raised the cash portion of the compensation
package to landlords to redtuce their reslstance to land reform, but strong
administrative efforts will be necessary. to ensure continued progress In the
implementation o, the program.



9.         Industry accounts for almost 30 percent of net domestic product,
one-third of total fixed Investment and 15 percent of total employment. In-
dustrial production, which grew by 12 percent in 1973, was adversely affected
lit 1974 by the world-wide economic slowdown and grew by only 3.6 percent in
1975. This decline Is primarily a result of depressed demand for Philippine
exports on the part of the country's main trading partners and the concomitant
slowdown In the rate of economic growth In the Philippines. Nonetheless, the
long-term prospects for Industrial growth are favorable because of the natural
and human resource endowment of the Philippines and a very active private
sector.
10.       The Government has made significant progress In increasing public
Investment. The ratio af public Investment to GNP is currently about 3 per-
cent compared with 1.8 percent in FY72. The Government has also Implemented
a series of long needed tax reforms and improvements in tax administration.
These reforms, aided by the increased economic activity, the boom in export
lncomes, and domestic Inflation, resulted in a 36 percant increase in national
government tax revenues in FY73, and an estimated 47 percent In FY74. As a
result, the ratio of national government tax revenues to GNP has Increased
from an average of 9 percent in 1970 to an estimated 12.3% in FY74 and stayed
at this level In FY75.
11.       Significant financial reforms have also been enactel.     At the begin-
ning of 1976, the Central Bank issued circulars designed to help rationalize
the level and structure of deposit and lending rates, and deposit rates were
raised for the second time in 18 months; long-standing statutory ceilings on
the long-term lending rates of banking institutions were increased from 12-14
percent to 19 percent per annum, and the ceilings on short-term lending rates
were also raised. Effoits were also made to control short-term market opera-
tions and strengthen the organized banking Institutions. These actions are
an Important step In improving the mobilization and allocation of domestic
resources- in the Philtppines.
12.        In the latter part of 1973, inflation emerged as a major problem
in the Philippines and In 1974 consumer prices rose by almost 40 percent.
The rise was caused by the large increase in liquidity that came with the
export boom in 1973-74, and by a number of cost-push factors, including the
higher rate of world inl'lation. To deal with this problem, the Government
adopted contractionary raonetary and fiscal-policies, and attempted to
reduce the impact of inlElation on consumers by subsidizing such essential
goods as wheat, imported rice, and cooking oil. As a consequence of the
Government's measures, t:he annual rate of Inflation decreased to less than
20 'ercnet at the end o! 1974 and less than 10 percent in 1975.
13.       The rapid inflation In 1974 exacerbated the decline in real wages
which had begun in 1970O. Overall, there was a decline of about 20 percent
in rea' wages during 1974. In order to offset the deterioration of real
wages In urban areas, the Government Increased the salaries of Government
employees and directed private firms to grant emergency crst of living
adjustments to employees earning less than P 600 per month. Nevertheless,



- 4 -
real urban wage Incomes declined and redtuced the (itmzild for manufactured
products, which contributed to thie poor performance of the manufacturing
sector in 1974. The depression In the urban areas was partly offs;et by the
improvement In rural Incomes that stemmed ftom cont inued high prices for
agrliculttural commodities.
14.       On the externall side, th,e Phillipphie balance of payments bene-
fitted considerably from the international commodity price boom during 1973.
HLigh prices for thie c,antry's chief exports, Including coconut products,
sugar, copper and wood products resulted In a 70 percent boos- in export
earnings and a balance of payments surplus of about $670 million.  Since
mid-1974, the external trade position has deteriorated, due to the sharp
Increases in the prices of oil and other imports, less favorabl- prices [or
lhillippine exports, and reduced volume of some exports restilting from the
recession In the economies of the Philippines' main trading partners. As a
result, the overall balance of payments surplus fell to about $100 million
In 1974, and a deficit of about $400 million was recorded in 1975.  Inter-
national reserves stood at around $1.1 billion at the end of 1975, the
equivalent of about three months Imports.
15.       Thie outlook for 1976 Is for exports to Increase by about 12 percent
In real terms on the assumption that there will be some international econo-
mic recovery.  Imports will need to grow by about 7 percent in real terms
In order to malr,tain the growth of the economy. Due to a modest deteriora-
tion of the termn of trade, the current account deficit may reach about
$l.0 billion compared to $860 million In 1975. Medium and long term
c.apital Inflows are expectedl to finance most of this deficit, producinig an
overal I halance of payments deficIt of about $200 million.  Such a defLcit
can he managed withiout serious pressure on reserves through litiLlizaitIon of
IMF facilities andl by short--term foreign borrowing by the Central Bank.
16.       The overall level of debt of the Philippines is expected to remain
within re.,3onable limits, as the r"tio of debt service payments to exports
and non-factor serv;ces woulcd average about 16-17 percent during the rest of
tills decade. At present, the Bank/ICA simare In total debt outstanding Is
about 10 percent and Its share in d'-at-service Is about 4 percent. Thlese
shares are expected to Increase semewhat in the yeatrs ahead.
17.       Foreign assistanc,E- on concessionajL terms will be essential to help
to finance the larger investment expenditures whLich will he necessary for
thie country's development.  In order to ensure thalt disbursement of external
assistatnce reaches levels commensurate with the level of development expend-
itures which wil be required (luring tihe latter part of the decade, total
commitments of officlal assistance will need to be maintained In real terms at
iteast ait thie Level of about $500 miltion which was arhileved in 1974. The
onsul tat Ive C.roup for the 'hil ippLnes at Its meet ing In lar Is on October 1,
t1975, aigreel th at It would be redsonable for. tht Ii I I IIIpplne Government to
seek aId.rommlirments of about $600 million during 1976; anothler meetLng of
the IConsutitt tIve (;routp h..s been cal led for June 15 anid Ih, 1976 mainly to
review prospvcts and needls over the next 5-10 years, whichi were anal.yzed
in the KBatk's most rereLnt economic report.



-5-
Growt'h Prospects
18.       Despite the slowdown In the growth of tthe economy, which is primarily
a result of worldwide economic conditions, the Covernment remains committed
to regaining the growth momentum which began In 1973 to provide for a con-
tinued increase In incomes and employment. High priority must be accorded
to expandIng employment opportunities - In the short-term as well as the
long-term - because unemployment and underemployment are still high, and the
labor force continiues to grow at 3 pereent a year.
19.       Priority must also be given to expanding food production for the
doxnestic market, to expanding industrial export productlon and to accelerat-
Ing development of local energy resources. The difficulties experienced
during the last two years in Importing sufficient quantities of food at
reasonable prices, especially cereals, have Increased the Government's resolve
to achieve self-sufficiency In rice and co-n as soon as possible. The Govern-
ment rightly recognizes tlhat rhe Increased cost of petroleum and other Imports
cannot he financed indefinitely by borrowing abroad, and it is actively en-
couraging both local and Foreign investors to expand the productive capacity
of export Industries and I:o undertake major new import-replacing investments.
Because It will take time for these Investments to have an Impact on the
balance of payments, the Government is seeking Increased supporr from the
international financial community to help carry out its development program
and to ease the adjustment to higher petroleum and other import prices. Be-
cause of the substantial easing of the external debt burden which has taken
place In the last several years, the Philippines now has the capacity to
borrow externally larger amounts of capital to support Its development
program, provided substantiial amounts can be borrowed on favorable terms.
20.       Given the likely availability of resources and the expected growth
in various sectors, It Is reasonable for the Government to plan for a longer
term growtlh ln GNP of about 7 percent a year in real terms. To achieve
this objective, increaqed Investments will be necessary In a wide range of
Industries. Public Investments also need to be Increased. A new public
infrastructure program Is being prepar. ., and the Government Is putting
emphasis on developing nuclear and Indigenous power sources and on Irrigation,
feeder roads and other prcjects to support Increased food production. The
Government has made considerable progress in recent years in building up the
capacity of public sector agencies to prepare and execute projects. However,
there will be a need for continued efforts to strengthen this aspect of ad-
ministration. The ratio of public Investment to CNP will need to rise from
the present level of 3 percent to at least 5 percent by 1980. To support
this level of investment, the Government will need to Intensify its tax
efforts so that the ratlo of national taxes to'GNP continues to rise from
Its present level of 11-12 percent to 14.5 percent by 1980.
21.       The Government's ambitious development program will continue to
require foreign resources In addition to the capital which would become
available for the financing of the foreign exchange component of develop-
ment projects. Some financing of local costs is justified, especially for



projects of economic and social Importance which need only limited amounts
of foreign exchange. In viev of the Philippines balance of payments and ex-
ternal debt position, and taking Into account the country's performance in
economic development and its relatively low per capita income, the Philip-
Pines is considered eligible for Third Window loans from the Bank. One Third
W.'ndow loan of $25 million for the Third Education Project has already been
approved by the Executive Diirectors, ard one additional Third Window loan of
$10 million Is propGsed as part of the financing for the Manila Urban
Development Project.
PART II - BANI) GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
22.       By April 30, 1976, the Philippines had received 35 Bank loans
and 3 IDA credits totallinlg $886.7 million, net of cancellations. About 33
percent of the Bank/IDA lending. $293 million, has been for infrastructure
projects In power, transpoLtation, and water supply and $63 million has been
for population and educatiDn projects. Of the remainder, about $280 million
has been for agriculture and about $250 million for industry. There has been
a marked Improvement In the way Bank financed projects in the Philippines have
been executed In the last three years, compared with experience in the 1960s,
when shortages of peso counterpart funds combined with poor administration to
cause serious problems. All on-goIng projects are now being implemented
reasonably well. Annex 1I contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1976 and notes on the execution
of on-going projects.
23.       The Bank's lendl.ng program has been designed to continue to support
the Philippine development: effort with its particular emphasis on agriculture
and Infrastructure. Shortages of domestic revenues led to low investment for
these purposes In the past. T'ie last three years have seen major changes
which have helped to overcome these constraints and both the ambitious
Phllipplne development program and the Bastk's lending program have been de-
signed to make good past neglect and tc meet future needs. Commitments of
$165.1 million in FY74 and $208 million in FY75 compared to an average of
about $30 million a year in the preceding five years.
24.       Five loans totalling $212 million have so far been approved in
FY76. The proposed loans for the Manila Urban Development Project, together
with loans for a Second Fisheries Project and for a Second Grain Processing
Project, which are being presented this month, are the last scheduled for
consideration during this fiscal year. Loans for a highways and a power
project may be ready for presentation In the first half of FY77.
25.       IFC has made commitments In the Philippines totalling $76.2 mil-
lion for Investments in 13 companies in the fields of development banking,
power, telecommunications., ceramic tiles, paper, petroleum products, nickel
mining and refining, chemicals and synthetic fibers.    Of these investments,
as of March 31, 1976, $19.1 million had been sold, $0.4 million cancelled
and $3.7 million repaid, leaving a net portfolio of $53.0 million. On the



same date, all commitments were fully disbursed.     Preliminary proposals
have been received for an aluminLtim smelter and other projects in the pulp
and paper, dinaerware, metal alloys and shipbuilidng fields.
PART III - THE SECTOR
A. Urba,n Development in the Philippines
26.       The Philippines will continue to feel the impact of population growth
and urbanization in the rnext two or three decades. The population is forecast
to reach 77 million by the year 2000 (from 41 million in 1974), with the
urban population growing from 32 percent to approximately 46 percent. The
number of people living in urban centers could grow from 13.2 million in 1975
to 35 million by the year 2000.
27.       The urb.inization problems facing the country are accentuated by the
predominance of metropoliLtan Manila. The Metropolitan Manila Area (MMA) had
an estimated ponulation Ln 1975 of 5.5 million, or 13 percent of the national
total. With an average annual growth rate of 5 percent since 1960, Manila's
population is increasing faster than those of other urban areas, which had
been growing at 3-4 percent annually, because of higher rates of migration to
Manila.   If present trends continue, 23 million persons could be living in the
Manila region-by the end of the century, .ully 65 percent of the urban and 30
percent of the total population.
28.        The Government has recognized the magnitude of the problems facing
the urban sector. It Is planning and executing programs in the MMA, which
faces !'y far the most serlous of the Philippines' urban problems. It is
also trying to promote decentralization in urban growth by developing small-
and medium-sized cities In addition to channeling resources into the MMA.
29.        Rapid growth En the service sectors, especially the informal service
sector 1/, has prevented urban population growth from being translated into
open unemployment in the cities. As in most cities, this sector accounts for
over two-thirds of total urban employment. It is likely that a large portion
of the growth In service sector employment has been in the informal service
subsector, which Is estimated to account for over 60 percent of total ser-ice
employment in both urban and rural areas.
30.        Despite the significantly higher average Incomes of urban areas
compared to rural areas, living standards are not necessarily higher, and
substantial poverty exists. If absolute otandards of poverty are used,
1/   Includes domestic services and personal services In transport, commu-
nication, government, commerce, business water and sanitation and
recreation.



about 30 percent of the urbar, population, or 3.2 million persons, were
estimated to be living at or below the r-inimum suboistence level in 1971,
with Inadequate housing and limited or no access to water, toilets and
electrie!ity.
31.       The housing shortage and Inadequacy of service levels in urban
areas Is severe and ls growing rapidly. The 4.5 percent average annual growth
rate In urban housing construction from 1960 to 1970 implies that the growth
lr housing in urban areas junt kept pace with population growth and did not
allow for the replacement of physically inadequate dwelling units. At the end
of the 1960s, only half of a!Ll urban dwe!lling units had piped water, a fifth
electricity for lighting, anl a tenth had a flush toilet.
32.       The urban poor occupy the least desirable of this already inadequate
housing stock. They are at a particular disadvantage because of relatively
inactive public sector involvement in housing construction and financing, and
because neither private nor Ipublic housing finance programs have significantly
assisted the lower income groups.
33.       The Government's response to these problems has been to promote
decentralization In urban growth by developing small- and medium-sized cit1es
in addition to channeling resources Into the MMA. The Government has recently
Initiated several Important programs to encourage the development of small and
medium scale industries, many of which provide employment in cities outside
MMA, and a municipal water supply program to establish effective water supply 
systems In a large number of cities. But, this two-pronged approach cannot
obscure the fact that by far the largest part of the country's urban problems
is concentrated In Manila.
B. Urban Development in the Metropolitan Manila Area (MMA)
34.       Manila has a larger area (870 sq km), a larger population base
and a faster annual population growth rate than other urban areas In the
Philippines; a higher unemployment rate than the national average (11 percent
In Manila compared to 7 percent nacionally in 1971); and by far the worst
housing conditions In the country. While the proportion ef the urban poor
Is about the same In Manila as In other urban areas, Manila's poor are the
largest concentrated poverty group in the Philippines totalling 1.5 million,
or nearly one half of the Philippines' urban poor.
35.       Employment In the MMA presently accounts for about 10 percent of
the national total. In 1971, 1.5 million persons were employed In the MMA,
of which 960,000 (or 64 percent) were i'. che services sector.   Of the balauce,
industry employed 29 percent, and agriculture and other 7 percent. Although
the lnformal subsector provides a large amount of employment, the earnings and
savings potential in that subsector is often not much greater than that found
in rural areas. In 1971, median family income in the MMA was estimated by the



- 9 -
Bureau of Cens1JS and Statistics to be about $825. Htowever, as a result of
inflation between 1972-74, real wages in the MMA declined, witlh wages for
unskilled workers declining by about 25 percent.
36.       The city's most pressing problems relate to shelter, health and
nutrition, urban transport and institutional capabilities. An acute housing
shortage has been caused by rapid population growth, an inadequate existing
housing stock, and the absence of a coordinated institutional framework
to address construction and financing of housing. In 1972, approximately
50 percent of physically inadequate dwelling units in the Philippines and
80 percent in all urban areas were in the MIA. About 1.8 million persons now
live in substandard structures on unserviced lots with a very low level of
environmental sanitation.
37.       The inadequ:cy of sanitation facilities and of health and medical
services, compoutnded by flooding and standing stap,.nant water, have led to a
deterioration in the level of health.    Cases of typhoid, cho'era, other gastro-
intestinal infections and malnutrition have risen noticeably since 1968, and
It Is clear that population increases have strained available medical and
health facilities.
38.       The MIIA also suffers from major Lransportation problems.    Chronic
congestion has become a common condition because of pcpulation growth and a
rapid growth in che number of private passenger vehicles. In i975, the MMA
had about 325,000, or 42 percer,t of all registered motor vehicles, of which
70 percent were private passenger vehicles. The situation is exacerbated 1,
ineficilent use of exisCing road capacity. Public transport is mostly pro-
,lded by the private sector,which, because of deterioration in financial
conditions and uncertainty about Government policy towards private sector
fleet owners, has steadily reduced its investments in vehicle maintenance
and fleet renewal in recent years.
39.       The organization of local governments in the MIA has not been
conducive to effective metropolitan-wide planning or administration.     Hlow-
ever, in November 1975, the Metropolitan Manila Commission (KMC), headed
by a general manager, was established and consolidated 17 jurisdictions
into one. Previously, the MMA's government was fragmented into 32 juris-
dictions.
40.        The largest slum, and the one in most pressing need of basic urban
services, is the Tondo Foreshore. The Tondo was reclaimed from the sea in
the late 1940s and squatters moved In shortly thereaftet. This community,
the upgrading of which is the centerpiece of the-proposed project, covers
almost 180 ha and has a population of 27,500 families (180,000 persons) in
17,500 structuireb.  The median family income 'is about $576 a year, whlic   is
abouLt 'o percent of the median income of the MMA.
41.        In the Tondo, the tajority of households are first-generation mig-
grants. Because of its central location, the Tondo has been a convenient
place from wiich to attempt to find employment and to adjust to urban life.



- 10 -
42.       Some land registration by squatter families has taketn place mostly
in tthe old foreshore (Old Tondo), whirh comprises approximately one third of
tht total area.  I'he new foreshore area (New Tondo) is still largely publicly
ow.:At Lan(i.  The fact that some households have tenure, or have been offered
it, while others I  e no legal right, has given rise to much unrest over the
years.
43.       The Tondo's level c-f environmental sanitation is veLy low because
of the high population density, iniadequate water and sewerage facilities
and very paor drainage.   Partly as a result of this, the area'* residents
suffer Froni severe health pr'3blems.  According to a 1975 survey, infant
mortality is about 130 per 1,,000 live birtlhs per year; 80 percent of pre-
:achiool children are undernaourished; more than three-quarters of the population
suffer from roundworms; 30 percent of the adult female population and more
than 40 percent of the children suffer from anemia; and much of the population
also suffers scvere Vitamin A deficiencies.   In 1974, there were around o00
hospital admissions fer caolera in Tondo, and 707 deaths attributed to tuber-
culosis.
44.       Until now, the Government's main response to the problems of slum
and squatter areas has been at series of id hoc prnjects generally involving
major relocations to distant sites, which have not been very successful.
Principal difficulties have been a lack of nearby employment opportunities
and inade(quiate services, especially transportation. The Covernment is now
planning a program, of which the proposed project is a part, designed to
uipg.ade hlighted areas in the M1A, provide better employmnent opportunities
and Improve Lhe standards of operation of the respor.sible Government agen-
cies..  To hegin Lhis program, thte Government in 1974 created the Tondo Fore-
shore fievel opment Authority (TFt)A) which, together with appropriate G;overn-
ment. agenicies, was to be iesponsible for executing a program of upgrading the
I'OIldo) iForeshore.  The TFD)A has now been incorporated into the National Housing
Authlority (NIIA), which was created in July 1975, to consolidate the six
agencies formerly concerned with thc provision of housing in order to help
meet the growing requirements for improved shelter in the Phiilippines.
45.      'The poor health and living conditions of the large percentage of
famlli.2s living in slum and squatter areas suggest that the higbest priority,
in the near term, should be to extend minimum urban services to the worst
slum areas.  Thisf effort, if made on a comprehensive area-by-area basis and
accompanted by measures whic:h regularize land tenure, should help improve the
living conditions of Manila's poor.   At the same time, a long-term shelter
program can be und(ertaken to heir meet the needs of the approximately 40,000
new families being added L nually to the population and slow the spread of
squatter areas.   The Government' s programs discussed in thc precedtng para-
graph are important steps to help meet these needs.
46.       Ccrn3derable devclopment is taking.place in the areas immediately
adjoin intnig thf' Tondo Foreshore.  immediately to tthe south, reclamation and
construrt loi of the Internal:ional Port is taking place.  The first phase of
port Improvement will require the relocation of approximately 1,500 squatter



families to Dagat-Dagatan two miles away. At Dagat-Dagatan, reclamation is
continuing on 367 ha of unused fishponds, the first 40 ha of which would be
used by the proposed project. To the northwest of Dagat-Dagatan, reclamation
and construction of a fisheries port and associated industrial area at Navotas,
partially financed by the Asian Development Bank (ADB), is nearly complete,
and will soon require the relocation of several thousand squatters to Dagat-
Dagatan.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Purposes of the Project
47.       The major components of the project %ould respond directly to the
shelter, sanitation, employment and infrastructure problems of the Tondo
Foreshiore and to the urban transport and institutional problems of Manila
in general. The upgrading of the Tondo and the new sites and services devel-
opment in Dagat-Dagatan would provide 180,000 persons in a major slum and
squatter area with secure land tenure and adequate urban services, in such
a manner that project beneficiaries will be able to afford to pay for these
services. The traffic improvement component would focus on low-cost, high-
return investments for al'L of Manila by providing for urgently needed traffic
control measures and equipment necessary for the efficient use of existing
infrastructure. The project would help strengthen two new institutions, the
National Rousing Authority (NHA) and the Metropolitan Manila Commission
(MMC), by providing technical assistance; it would also have a formative
Impact on the Governmen't's3 urban program because it would be its first
comprehensive slum upgrading project. In the course of the four-year project
implementation period, the NRA is expected to significantly increase its
capacity to plan and implement similar upgrading and sites and services
projects in other parts of Manila and in other cities in the Philippines.
48.       Looking beyond i:he individual components, the project aims to
assist the Government in Initiating a new approach to the city's prensing
shelter and sanitation problems and to encourage transport investment pro-
jects Involving relatively low capital input. The project seeks to de-
monstrate that upgrading and improvement in situ is an appropriate alter-
native to resettlement, wiich has hitherto been the policy adopted by the
Government. The integratLon of health, nutrition and other social service
Improvements with physical improvements in water supply, sewerage and
drainage, both in the Ton(lo Foreshore and at Dagat-Dagatan, is expected to
demonstrate an approach which is not only comprehensive but is also replic-
able in other slum areas of Manila and other cities in the Philippines.
49.       The project was prepared by the Government with assistance of
various short-term consultants. Bank missions appraised the project in
.1uly and November 1975 and negotiations were held in Washington in
April 1976 . The Government's negotiating team was lcd by Hlis Excellency
Eduardo Z. Romualdez, the Philippine Ambassador to the United States. The
Staff Project Report (No. 1032a-P11) is being distributed separately to
t'e Executive Directors, dinnex Ill provides a loan and project summary.



- 12 -
Project Components and Design Standards
50        The project would provide improved environmental sanitation infra-
structure and social services for the Tondo Foreshore, one of Manila's
worst slums, develop a first phase of sites and services settlement at
neighboring Dagat-Dagatan and build and improve trunk roads in the Tondo
Foreshore area. It would also provide traffic engi:neering and management
improvements and technical desistance for the Metropolitan Manila Government.
Included in the project, at the request of the Government, is technical
assistance for national tranEsportation planning. The project would include:
(a) Tondo Foreshore UpUrading. Upgrading a 180 ha area, with
a population after development of about 160,000 persons
living in 15,000 st:ructures, by providing basic urban
infrastructure and health, education and other welfare
services, materials for house improvement and cottage
industry loans, about 1,000 new serviced lots and core
units on now vacani: land, and about 15 ha of land for
industrial and commercial use;
(b)  Dagat-Dagatan.  Devielopment of a residential community
for about 20,000 persons after development on about 40 ha
by provid4ng basic infrastructure and health, education
and other welfare services, materials for housc improvement
and cottage industry loans, 2,000 residential lots with
simple sanitary core units for lease with option to purchase
by families displaced from the Tondo Foreshore, and about
3.5 ha of land or industrial/commerical use;
(c)  Offsite Infrastructure.   Rehabilitation of the exist-
ing Tondo Sewerage Pumping Station and construction of a
new outfall sewer to replace the existing sewer, which has
deteriorated to the point that it is inadequate for the
,:fficient and sanitary discharge of existing or anticipated
sewage flows from the Tondo Foreshore; and construction of
stabilization ponds and temporary (above ground) water
mains at Dagat-Dagatan;
(d)  Major Roads.  Construction of 5.4 km of the R-10 road
between C-1 and Dagat-Dagatan, construction of 1.7 km of
circumferential roads C-2 and C-3 and construction of
0.4 km of the Dagat-Dagatan road to provide access
to the Dagat-Dagatan resettlement site and to facilitate
traffic movement out of the tnternational Port ar.a;
(e) Traffic Improvement. Construction of junction improvement,
road markings and footpaths, and bus shelters and provision
of signals, signal-linking equipment and mobile radios
to improve the use of existing infrastructure; and



- 13 -
(f) Technical Assistance. Consultants (about 46 man-years)
would be retained by:
(I) the NItA for detailed design and constructton super-
vision of the physical works In the Tondo Foreshore
and Dagat-Dagatan; organization, management and
finar.cial planning for the NiA and the Tondo Foreshore
Development Unit; and feasibility studies to develop
a possible second urban development project;
(ti) the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
(MWSS) for detailed engineering of the outfall sewer;
(iii) the Department of Highways (DPIH) for detailed design
of project roads and for design and implementation of
the traffic engineering and management component of the
project;
(iv) the Department of Public Works, Transportation and
Communications (DPWTC) for: a metropolitan Manila
transport/land-use study; and on behalf of the MMC
for a fiscal base s.tudy, a cadastral survey for metro-
politan Manila to update the existing survey which
covers only half the land, a municipal services study,
and staff training; and
(v) the DPWTC to assist in preparing a national trans-
portation investment plan for 1977-80 and a national
transport systems study; and to help strengthen the
planning capalilities of the various Government
transportation agencies.
51.       The design standards selected for the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat-
Dagatan provide for individual water and sewer hookups and, in the case of
Dagat-Dagatan, for individual electricity connections.     These design stand-
ards were selected after Cull consideration of several alternative solutions
ranging from indtvidual pit latrines to group facilities. They would minimize
the need for relocation oF Tondo Foreshore residents, but nevertheless about
500 families would be relocated to Dagat-Dagatan because of improvements to
roads and the introductiona of infrastructure. Tn addition, the project would
provide sites at Dagat-Dagatan for another 1,500 families, most of whom would
be dislocated from the Initernational Port area because of Port expansion and
from the Navotas Fisheries; Port. All iots at1Dagat-Dagatan would be provided
wtth a common wall, basic plumbing and a concrete floor, all of which would
be financed by the monthly lease payment. New lot occupants would bring exist-
ing structures from their present location.    A variety~of materials for house
Improvement would also be available for purchase, and house materials loans
would be available to enable project beneficiaries to make improvements.



- 14 -
Project Execution and Management
52.       The NHA, estabLished in late 1975 to plan and execute a national
housing program, would be the principal Government agency implementing the
project. The staff of the former TFDA has been absorbed by the NHA and
are now in the Tondo Foreshore/Dagat-Dagatan Development Project Office
(TFDPO), which is the uniit in the NHA with prime responsibility for executing
the Tondo Foreshore and Diagat-Dagatan parts of the proposed project. The NHA
would also be responsible for coordinating very closely with the other Gov-
ernment agencies which execute other parts of the project:
(a)  the DPH, which would be executing the major roads components
and the traffic improvement component, for the execution of
which it has agreed to institute a training program for traf-
fic engineers in traffic engineering and management satisfac-
tory to the Bank by December 31, 1976 (see Section 3.04 of the
Loan Agreement);
(b)  the MWSS, which would construct the sea outfall sewer and
thie Tondo Pumping Station and which would provide technical
aHsistance to the NHA for the water supply and sewerage
elements;
(c) the DPWTC, which would be responsible for major flood drainage
works, the transport/land-use study, the fiscal base study,
the cadastral survey, the municipal services study, and
staff training; and
(d) the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP), and at NHA's
option, the 2hilippine National Bank (PNB) or Philippine
Business for Social Progress (PBSP), which would administer
the lines of credit for cottage industry.
In addition, the DPWTC will be executing agency for the technical assistance
in national transportation planning. These agencies are suitably staffed
and organized to carry out their responsibilities under the proposed project;
the DPII, the MWSS and the DPWTC would also employ suitably qualified consult-
ants on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (see Section 3.03 of the
Loan Agreement).
53.       The NIIA would also coordinate with six other agencies which would
be taking over operation and maintenance of project facilities, once they have
been completed by the NHA:
(a) the Department of Education and the Manila City
Schools Office, which would be responsible for
operation and maintenance of the completed educational
facilities;
(b)  the Department of Health and the Manila City Health
Office, which would be responsible for operation and
maintenance of the health centers and clinics; and



- 15 -
(c) the National Nutrition Council and the POPCOM, which
would run the nutrition and family planning programs,
respectively, Included in the project.
54.       The relevant responsibilities of the agencies involved have been
spelled out in a draft Presidential Letter of Instruction (LOI). In order
to ensure that the NBA, a, new agency, can successfully execute and manage
the project, the project includes financing fcr a substantial amount of
technical asststance in engineering, planning, organization and financial
management.   The NHA agreed, during negotiations, that-this would be carried
out by suitably qualified consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank (see Section 3.013 (b) of the Loan Agreement). The employment of
engineering consultants by NHA and the issuance and effectiveness of the
LOI would be conditions of the effectiveness of the proposed loan (see
Sections 7.01(b) and 7.01(c) of the Loan Agreement).
55.       The NHA also agreed, during negotiations, to a satisfactory plan
of organization for the TFDPO (see Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement) and
agreed to arrangements satib-actory to the Bank for filling key staff posi-
tions with suitably qualified personnel (see Section 4.05 of the Loan Agreement).
In addition, the NtA agreed to establish and staff a project monitoring and
evaluation system to monitor the progress of the project (see Section 4.03
of the Loan Agreement). With these arrangements, the Government would be
able to execute the project satisfactorily.
Project Cost and Financirt
56.       The estimated total cost of the project is $65 million, with a
foreign exchange componernt of $32 million, or 49 percent of total project
costs. The estimates include an overall 10 percent physical contingency
allowance. This includesi a 25 percent allowance on tertiary infrastructure
items, because of great clifficulties in determining in advance of actual
work tlhe specific requirements of each individual lot; and a 56 percent
allowance on the intercepitor sewer, because of extremely difficult soil con-
ditions. The estimate also includes an allowance for increases in domestic
and foreign prices on the basis of an annual increase of 10 percent cal-
culated in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. The average man-month cost
of consultant services itl estimated to be $5,800. The project is scheduled
for completion by March 1981.
57.       The proposed Bsnk loans for this project would be for the equivalent
of $32 million and would constst of a Third Window Loan of $10 million and a
Bank loan of $22 million. The loans would be made to the Government and
would finance the foreign exchange costs. Of the balance of $33 million,
the NHA would finance $19.2 million, the MWSS $0.3 million and the Govern-
ment $13.5 million. The Bank loan would be for a term of 22 years, including
a grace period of 5 years, at the standard Bank interest rate. The Third
Wtndow Loan would be made on standard Third Window Loan terms.



- 16 -
58.       Of the total proceeds of the loans, $17.6 million would be relent
to the NHA under a subsidiary loan agreement, on the same terms as those
of the Bank loan, to help finance the Tondo Foreshore, Dagat-Dagatan, tech-
nical assistance to NRA, and lines of credit for materials for house improve-
ment and cottage industry; snd $1.3 million would be relent to MWSS under a
subsidiary loan agreement on the same terms as those of the Bank loan, to
help flnance the outfall sewer and the Tondo Pumping Station. The conclusion
of the subsidiary loan agreements would be conditions of effectiveness of the
proposed Bank loan (see Section 7.01(a) of the Loan Agreement). About $10.8
million would be allocated to the DPH for construction of the major roads and
for the implementation of the traffic engineering component; and $2.3 million
would be allocated to DPWTC to finance the land-use/transport study, the
nattonal transportation p:Lanning assistance, and the fiscal base study, the
municipal services study, training and cadastral surveys that DPWTC is admin-
istering for the MetropolLtan Manila Commission. For the housing materials
loans ($2.9 million), NRA would enter into an agreement with DBP, and for the
cottage industry loans ($0.4 million) with DBP and, at NHA's option, with PNB
or PBSP to administer the loans. The onlending institutions would receive a
3 percent spread on funds and provide loans to ultimate borrowers at an inte-
rest rate of not less thanm 12 percent per annum. For cottage industry loans,
a special one-time fee of 2 percent would also be charged and retained by NRA,
which would share the risk of default under arrangements to be agreed with the
lending institutlons referred to above.
Cost Recovery for the Tondo Fo.-ashore and Dagat-Dagatan Components
59.       While housing has been increasingly recognized as an urgent need
and squatting on unserviced land has become an increasingly difficult pro-
blem, mobilization of resources into the housing sector has been hindered in
the recent past by the belief that the poor cannot afford to pay for the
housing and services they would receive, and that large-scale subsidies would
be required to initiate any substantial program. The general approach adopted
for the proposed project was to seek full cost recovery, while simultaneously
including in the project other sources of revenue that could be used to help
pay for the project and thus reduce charges Lo the low-income families now
living in the area. Project charges to beneficiaries have, therefore, been
reduced by the amount of revenue anticipated from the sale or lease of about
19 ha of industrial and major commercial property in the project area. The
sale and lease of this property is expected to produce gross revenues equiva-
lent to about $13.5 million.
60.        In Dagat-Dagatan, costs would be further reduced by a total of
$2.5 million, which is the esttmated incremental cost of upgrading the lots
of those families who have to be relocated in Dagat-Dagatan because of works
being undertaken by the Philippine Port Authority (PPA) and the DPH, which
are tmplementing res.pectlvely a port expansion project at the International
Port and the major road projects in the Tondo Foreshore area. The Covernment
agreed during negotiatiorts to make satisfactory arrangements for the provision
of the funds necessary tco pay for the incremental cost of providing lots to
families who will have tco be resettled as a result of the port expansion and



- 1 7 -
highway construction (see Section 5.05 of the Loan Agreement). These arrange-
ments would enable the NHA. to charge Identical lease prfces in bothi the Touido
Foreshore and Dagat-Dagatan, even though uiniL costs at Dagat-Dagatan are higher
than tht unit upgrading ccsts at the Tondo Foreshore.     The total cost of the
Tondo Foreshore and Dagat-Dagatan infrastructure, excluding schools and
health clinics, is $27.9 million. The cost reductions, totalling about $16
million, would leave a net balance of about $12 million to be recovered from
project beneficiar!es to finance the full cost of the internal infrastructure
in the Tondo Foreshore and at Dagat-Dagatan. The Government agreed during
negotiations to recover these costs (see Section 5.04 of the Loan Agreement).
61.       Cost recovery in Tondo and Dagat-Dagatan will generally be through
25-year renewable leases, with an option to purchase after 5 years. Monthly
lease pa)ments (and assessment taxes) would be set to cover development costs
referred to in the preceding paragraph over 25 years at an annual interest
rate of 12 percent. A feature of the lease will be its transferability.
Lease holders may sell their leases should they decide to move.     Sitice thie
lease in this case will be an increasingly valuable asset and will have many
similarities to ownership it is expected that there will be a considerable
incentive to residents to continue to make monthly payments and to invest in
nnd improve their property.
62.       The project has 'been designed to enable the great majority of
existing Tondo Foreshore residents to afford the project benefits. A lease
payment of $0.13/sq m per inonth equivalent would cover full development costs
after the cost reductions diescribed paragraph 60 above.    In addition, a family
would pay normal charges for water and sewerage, property taxes and, if
connected, electricity. It is estimated that an average family would make a
monthly payment of $6.60 for all these expenditures except electricity in 1978,
compared to $3.75 in 1974. In real terms, this would be an increase of $1.15
per month-by 1978.   On this basis, an average size lot could be afforded by
about 75 percent of the Toondo Foreshore families, and a somewhat smaller lot
could be afforded by about 85 percent.
63.        It has not been possible to provide individual living accomodations
that would be affordable b', all income groups In the Tondo Foreshore, but the
vast majority of persons with incomes below the 15th percenttle are tran-
sients and/or renters of smiall rooms. These persons are expected to continue
renting rooms in the area and to receive substantial indirect benefits from
the project.
Procurement and Disbursement
64.        Civil works contracts of more than $1 million each, for a total of
about $14 miltio.n, would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group Culdellnes.     Because of the need to
undertake the work in small areas on a block-by-block basis, civil works con-
tractm of less than $i million eac'a, for a total of about $15 million, are
not sititable for international competitive bidding.    These wouldl be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with
Covernment procedures which are acceptable.



65.        For equipment and material procurement,except materials for house
Improvement, all contracts above $100,000 would be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
A preference limited to 15 percent of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or
the customs (luty whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufactuirers
in the e-valuation of bids.  Contracts below $100,000 and for materials for
house imp-ovement ($2.9 million), which would be phased over the project
implementation period and cannot conveniently be bulked, would be awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with Govern-
ment procedures whichi are acceptable. For the cottage industry loans
($400,00o). equipment would he procured on the basis of DBP's,guidelines,
whichi are satisfactory.
66.        For the Tondo Foreshore, Dagat-Dagatan, offsite infrastructure,
major r0ad and traffic engineering components, disbursements would be made
against 100 percent of the c.i.f. cost of directly imported equipment, mate-
rials and supplies, and 65 percent ot such items procured locally. For civil
works, the disbursement percentages are based on the estimated foreign exchange
costs and, with the exception of the outfall sewer, would be at the rate of
40 percent against certified monthly progress payments or expenditures. For
the outfall sewer, disbursements would be made against 60 percent of expend-
itures. For consultants' services, disbursements would he made against
I00 percent of foreign costs or 80 percent of total expenditures. Disburse-
ments for small-business loans would be made against 60 percent      of the value
of loans against supporting evidence of disbursements on a quarterly basis.
67.        Retroactive financing is recommended for about $2 millilon equiva-
lent for consultants' services in assisting with project preparation since
September 1975 and for initial civil works carried out at Dagat-Dagatan and
the Tondlo Foreshor-~ since January 1976.  This work was essential tor the
effective initial implementation of the project and was undertaken in
consultation with the Bank.
Moni toring
68.       The Government has included a system of monitoring in the project.
This will enstire that data essential to project execution is provided to
pro)jec, managers, and that the design and execution of future projects be-
nefits from the experience cf this project.     Monitoring of the upgrading,
SiLeSf and services, health and employment generation components of the
prolect wLIL he under the general supervision of a special unit within the
NIIA. Monitoring of the trarsportation component will be the responsibility
of the P'lanning and Project Development Office (PPDO) in the DPWTC.
.Jstification and Economic Analysis
69.        Thle Tondo Foreshore and Dagat-Dagatan components will improve
the health and living conditions of the Tondo Foreshore residents, stimulate
the cre;ation by Lhe private sector of approximately 800 jobs in the indus-
trlal/commerctal estate and create 200 jobs through the cottage industry loan



- 19 -
program. Approximately 12,000 man-years of direct employment, associated
with project construction activities, will also be created. The transport-
ation component would improve the efficiency of the existing road network,
through improvements in the capacity of key junctions and also through pro-
vision of important links in the circumferential-radial road network of the
city that would serve to divert port-related traffic away from the heavily
congested urban center. The provision of technical assistance to DPWTC for
the new Metropolitan Manila Commission (MMC) would assist the development of
the new Manila Government and help improve metropolitan-wide management and
cadastral information.
70.       The project would: directly benefit the 180,000 persons now residing
in the Tondo Foreshore areaL, who are among the poorest families in Manila.
The current median family income in this Tondo area is about $576 a year
which, with an average family size of 6.6 persons, is a per capita income
of $87 a year.
71.       The benefits of the traffic improvement compone~nt would be more
widely distributed, but lower income people would derive considerable benefit
from the reduction in traffic congestion and urban travel time and the im-
provement in safety conditlons. The portion of the R-10 constructed under
the project would provide for more efficient distribution of port traffic,
and would provide access to the Dagat-Dagatan site.
72.       The measurement of economic benefits for the slum upgrading, sites
and services, and industrial estates components of the project is based upon
estimates of increases in property values brought about by the provision
of infrastructure and other services; and on this basis, the economic rate
of return for the residential component is 21 percent, and the economic rate
of return for the industrial/commercial development in the project area is
40 percent.
73.       The benefits arising from the major road components were considel4d
to be savings in road transport costs of all diverted traffir from their pre-
sent heavily congested routes in the central Business Distr.ct to the project
roads. The economic rate of return for the R-10 road is edtimated to be 36
percent (between circumferential roads C-1 and C-2) and 45 percent (between
C-2 and the Dagat-Dagatan road). For the section of C-2 to be construc-
ted tnder the project, the economic rate of return is estimated to be 18
percent. Rates of return for the C-3 and the road in Dagat-Dagatan were not
calculated because the works are very small. The estimated weighted average
economic rate of return fc,r the Tondo Foreshore, Dagat-Dagatan and major road
components of the project is 27 percent.
Conclusions, Major Loan Conditions and Recommendations
74.       The project wouJLd be the first attempt to tackle some of the major
problems facing metropolitan Manila and, if successful, should demonstrate
the practicality of this approach for upgrading the standards of living of
the 3.2 million persons now estimated to be living at or below the minimum



- 20 -
subsistence level there and in other fast growing urban areas. It would also
help the Government to develop institutions and formulfte polictes and pro-
grams which deal efficiently with the problems of urba.i growthl.
?S.       During the course of project preparation, several issues were
addressed, the most importamt of which were:
(a) Land-Use. The original propcsals for the Tondo Foreshore
area involved a lDw density development that would have
entailed demolition of most housing units and relocation
of up to some 70 percent of the Tondo residents. To reduce
the amount of relocation, the alignment of the R-10 was
shifted from a path that would cut through the center of
the area to an alignment along the port wall that minimizes
relocation, and still neets the present and anticipated access
needs of the port. The proposed density levels were also
increased.
(b)  Design Standards.   The standards of the core units and the
sizes of lots to be provided in Dagat-Dagatan were reduced,
an'd the use of self-help house construction was increased in
order to reduce costs and ensure affordability.     In the
Tondo Foreshore, 'houses would be realigned along roads and
footpaths to improve circulation after consultation with the
residents of particular blocks to minimize social disruption.
(c)  Land Tenure.   Tenare in the Tondo area is a long-standing
political issute, the satisfactory resolution of which was
critical to the achievement of the project's social objectives
and the orderly implementation of the project.    A Presidential
Decree has been signed recently, which now provides long-term
leases to residents with options to purchase after five years.
(d)  Cost Recoverv.   Bank staff and the Government discussed the
question of cost recovery extensively during the early stages
of project preparatlon and the Covernment recognized thiat
effective cost recovery was essential given the very large
future investments necessary to meet growing urban needs.
The recovery formula described in paras. 59 - 63 is the
result of these discussions and has the full support of the
Philippine Govermnent.
76.       I'he major risks inherent in the project relate to the fact that
the NIIA is newly created and Inexperienced in the type of work proposed.
The project would require i high level of cooperation and coordination be-
tween the NIIA and dtfferen  agencies of the Government, as well as with the
residents of the Tondo area; It would also require a major commitment by the
Government in staff, financing and effort to ensure successful execution.
The Government is fully aware of the organizational efforts involved and has
agreed to take the necessary steps to ensure successful execution, since it



- 21 -
attaches high priority to the urban sector. The covenants relating to NHA
are discussed in paras 'i4 and 55 of this report. Inter-agency coordination
would be ensured through the Presidential Letter of Instruction (LOI) des-
cribed in para. 54. The risks associated with the project are considered
reasonable in light of the substantial benefits to the urban poor .hat would
be generated. Technical. assistance and monitoring and evaluation arrangements
have been incorporated to assist management in the execution of this project
and design of future projects.    In addition, supervision, at least in the
initial stages of project implementation, would require a heavy commitment of
the Bank's staff time.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Bank and Third Window Loan Agreements between the Republic
of the Philippines and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iiI) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the
text of the resolutions approving the proposed loans are being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.
78.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
IV. The following would be additional condltions to the effectiveness of the
loan agreements: (a) the conclusion of subsidiary loan agreements between the
Government and NHA and the Government and MWSS referred to in para 58, (b)
employment of engineering consultants by NHA referred to in para 54, and (c)
the issuance and effectiveness of the Letter of Instruction (LOI) referred to
in para. 54.
79.        1 am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and that the Third Window loan would comply with the
established criteria for such loans.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
80.        1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loans.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 17, 1976



'I*  U  -    :. o.,o
a~~~~~~ ~ ~ 5   CM >n4 4   ;'  vU '4 - o:  ..  04. ;; 40  4 - 4 *-  4   v  - _   _0
-  t   *s,!! l-,iit   i  ii  1   -!            it   1          I t
~~  I J 
*  o0  -  o00  oo  _ e o.0  o_-q  _  . *f  45 *0 Oct > 0  0O  00  0 O0 OO 0  0  00  C  O  e  _  0 00o9-
G4  .4.                    .  S..  *.-*  S*.             .  .  S_ _ <   s4 ~ _   o   s e _ _ <  
o  os   vs  o  _ R   0*  0*  _ C  _ .  . 9  .0  _ 0   OC.  Ri  _   -  C  -.  _  CC
t     Z.4 Riv40                 -O              .4
0.                                  iT  1:  It   1:  1:   t  1 -  .  9
0*0  *                                                               :.  S   *  *
~~  -  =  C .'  -  *' 1  WO-        O E  .-*
_  , 04 _ e eoe  , -  .           *~ *:06  * .   .  o4 e4 o5 o0 .5  0.  .0  .  ..  0  o oo
R*C   _oe_   . _ -  ,_ o  -  *  *. *e   *   ; , 4 :  9 ;  _ E 4  ;R - .e
0 0 :4"  -  ;  -: hi t  O  r,-    -       :- it     -  -  -       - -
-: ::                .-           _
-  0 _  ue*   R e0  C _. eE *-  v : **D*OO O_oe _oe      o.00  U   o,  0  o 
*  0*.. i.. ee     '<^ .^ e . v                          .  o  o  .  v* 
}R  _:  &   _ -  r.4      sO  r.   e        e.  -  .Wv.  a  ;  *  - 
i!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  444.  -  CU  RE tW  4.t - -4
_a  |S   -        *          e   -           C   o   -       *U       o .R*weooe 
Z~~~~~ -Z                  :l   - -  -   _     a   0she=wssvo_  -   - :   :~ __<_= e2
'l~~~~~~~~~~~~ - ,9 .                     as -.x"@i-..q-.w!S' 
2 | n 5  t |  S  s  @ . r  w w-, >  .  .4 *.S 9.9.. 0,.,,Ott 



_ 0 B . 2 . 2 t &: G W O ~~~~~~~~~~~~3  0      ;*giXt$~2  23.s .G _ 
i  w  6  J  gB ~~~~~6X5 1 6 *  -MX-; gt   _  _ t1  g -E ZI S   4
Z1  -, % 1        'I _  *   _i_   i  _ Z   4 | 
 ~ ~  ~ ~~~~~~  5. 7                                    C Z   Z -  G   3L;* 5 - O 355bs45|8[ 55 } o 
I  *i                         *sAYS vt v " > _G S5 @           Y of
-i:  ' tg ' i 't |jt I!i jj! 2                   ,t |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



Am,iM I
Po     of is pop
OIOS9 IATIOMUL PIDWCT IN 17f& lIL RMO or                                          n     . oonstant prices)
tlS muL.,      ,                       i        Mg1?  V  U2 ^t f
0t at Market Pries    o    14,550                              SiO
Orosa Domstic Ineotenat     36235                         013 :                                 1j:   _2;
Orono National Saving       3,420        23.5          15.0              1.         12        4.     ~   ;
Ourreet Acacount b3lxjm      -210        I1.
Iqorts of Goods, US         3 357        231           11.0      4:5      5:0       1.5      18:7     -24.1
Iqort. of ODS us            3,782        27.2           7.3     7.2      -5.4       2.?      13.1      20.4
OUT", tJOR FO= AnD,
Vlil ,ddad                  igbor f r.V                  V.   Fo r Uorker
~tX~C7XY1T _I 1 
Ariculture                   4,187      36.0               7.6     53-9                  5551      67.0
Ikacry                       3,850      33.1               2.k     17.0                1,604      194.9
Services                     3*,51      30.8               3.8     27.0                  942      114.5
Una.locatd                                                 0 *  0-3  2.1
00VVWRMM FMIA*-X
Oeral Oover    nt                           C<ntral Oovarmnt
Nl.            I of 0                    t-    mix ln.)       of ON-
1       197        1YT~~I -7             *F7YML~                 n- 73
Current Reoipt.                    .. ..                   .                  10,370      12.2         9.0
Current Ripanditure               '             *-                            215         9-3          8.0
Otrrent Surplus                   ,                        -                              29           1.0
Capital   penditur                               .        ..                   2,46        3.1         1.4
ern. cal *a   enc  (not)                        3- 186                                    0.2          0.4
MUST. CRMDI? uxa   UIIS                               :2a    _                  }5 197Q  2 1       73    1974
(m on poem outstandig end psriodr 
Mnewy ad Quasi Money                 5,136        8,959       10,140      11,720     13,243     16,837   19,766
Bank credit to  ablio Sector           980        359                                 4,817      6,820   7,621
Bank Credit to  rivate Secor         8,223       13,t9          3:        l 10       214531     26,906   34,326
(Percentaes or indx Umbers)
lnaoy and 0AauI Mdne ans %otf OP     21.1                       2 20       1523        1753      214
Oeneval Price Index (1963 - 100)    100.0       1H131 7                                   . 3              124A
AmALI peroentap chanses in,
Oezrol Prico DIdex                    2.2         1.3           23.6        15.7        10.0      24.6     54.5
Bank oredit to Peblic Sector          0.         27.9           -2.4        12.3        22.3      41.6     11.8
Beak credit to Private Sctor          ..          9.0          17.2         17.0       27.0       25.0     27.6
WTI    All aDoerdons to dollars to ;id.s table are at the *varge exchange rate provailng during the period
oo red.
JV A1.1 current factor oost.
2/ totda labor ftvree unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" con.ista mainly
o! uneoployed workers seeking their tirst Job.
V Covers credits from all inport5nt fAlial inAitutlons.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
Pass 1 of 4 pase.
- 1A5 D CASAL nao
hA      a !    S MAMMs                                            I        nxISlPos CAynAGI 1972-74)
W~~~~L"           Xg,l4                       DS )an 1
xCoconut P432ots2
(W.    b u               SuS$  Produot4                     426    22.4
,orts of    aods, WS                                                  Pr1          Foe            337 17.7
Imorts of Goods, mS                                      28 e2 oesrral P         ad2tnei          393     20.7
3aeource Ca (deficit - -)                ,                        i t2 nd1                                 6.2
Other _ntfactozas                  224    1.8
Intereat Paymnts (net)                  .92      -53     -55 
hotter.' R_ittances
Otber Fector P.,   to (net)             -3       -60
Net Transfore                           1                271
belane on Current Aecount 
lKrect Foreign Snveatmet                -'2      n7       59     UML       T- DC   Su 31. 19*
Net PLT Borrowing
Diebureements                        3O       377     I0                                             US S Hln
Amortts4tlon                         20       t 
Subtotal t c                                   ,2      63     Public Debt, ncl. guaranteed            1,U3
Capital Orente                                    4       63     Non-Guaranteed Private Debt               985
Other Capital (net) V                    15       43     373     Total outotanding & Diebureed
Other itin nue.i    7                  .96       -|        4                         -     ,
Increase in Rleeetyee (+) g             M       -r DT S1CP RATIO for 19;4
Croe Rkeerea (end year) W               735    1,416   1,978
Fit Raesrves   (end year)                80      753     934     Public Debt. tcnl guaranteed           6.6
Inter.Reservoc (end rar)I              282      876   1.165      Non-Guaranteed Private Debt           8.9
Total outotanding & Disbureed
O   raport UDo, t                    LIM      2,008   3,78
of ucha    retzlm                    267                3
IBID/IDA LEIGC. MarcAI3, 1976 (Mfillion US $)
RAT1 OF   .CBlD                                                                                              IDA
1169:t     it LC h-1                  Outstanding & Dieburs.d            264.9       8.3
US$ 1.00 - Ps.       3.92       6.143                       Dedisburesd                      -925         13.9
Pa. 1.OO) - US$      o.26         J6                        Outatanding inel. UIdisbursed o               22.2
_a31"A          3*75      An      :   197,!
.US I1,. 1t.      6.78      UD   1.00  - Po. 7.5
Pe. 1.00 - US$    0.15       Pa. 1.00  - US$ 0.133
1/  Ineludes SDRs ehort-tezn private loans, Cuntml Bonk Mobilities end use of D17 credit.
/ Erors Wa     zLMedons
Intolude net o    _ila  bank boldego plUs foreigs     nge holdings of Central Bank and in-tary gold.
This entry in eqivaen  t to the benW  in _ nt.trin   l reserves.
4/ Ineludeo Centml Ban and coruasralal bank reeervea.
Gross rserves of Central Bank pblu net reserves of ommrcial banks.
?zBludee ehort-tam debt and D   ateadby credt and is on a e sbursent basis.
Ratio of Dabt-Service to ?.    orto of' Ooods mid Non-factor Services.



ANN&X II
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
A. Statement cf Bank Loans and IDA Credits to the Philippines
as of March 31. 1976
Loan or                                                     (US$ rdllions)
Credit                                                   Amount less Cancellations
Number          Year    Borrower             Purpose    Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
13 loans and credits fully disbursed                     191.0
637-PH           1969   Republic of the   Irrigation      34.o                0.9
Philippines
720-PUt          1971                     Rice Proces-   14.3                11.0
sing and
Storage
809-PH           1972   National Power    Power           22.0               13.8
Corporation
823-PH           1972   Republic of the   Livestock        7.5                1.5
Philippines
349-PH           1973                     Education II             12.7      7.8
891-PH           1973                     Fisheries       11.6               8.1
939-PH           1973                     Ports            6.1               5.7
950-Pti          1973                     Hirhway II     68.o               42.3
472-PH           1974                     Aurora                    9.5       6.1
Penaranda
Irrigation
984-Ph'          1974         ""                           9.5                9.4
998-PH           1974                     DFC -DBP I      50.0               22.7
1010-PH           1974         n           Third Rural     22.0                0.2
Credit,
1034-PH           1974   National Power    Power           61.0               50.8
Corporation
1035-PH           1974   Repablic of the   Population      25.0               24.8
Philippines
1048-PH           1974                     S Shipping      20.0               20.0
1052-PH           1974   Philippine        DFC             30..0              27.5
National Bank
1080-PH           1975   Repablic of the   Tarlac          17.0               16.9
Philippines       Irrigation
1102-PH           1975        if           Rural           25.0               24.9
Dovelopmeint
1120-PH           1975                     Small a:.d      30.0               25.1
Medium
Industries
1154-PH           1976                     Magat           42.0               42.0
Irrigation
1190-PH           1976                     DFC-DBP II      75-0               75-0
124T-PH*         1976                     Education III   25.0               25.0
1225-PHf*         1976                     Livestock Ii    20.5               20.5
1227-PH*          1976                     Chico           50.0               50.0
Irrigation       -               -
lVAIAL  8'h4.5    22.2     533.4
Of which has been repaid (Baik and 3rd parties)            79.3      ---
Total now outstanding                                     785.2     I2 2
Amount sold                                        13.3
Of which has been repaid (3rd ptrties)            1            --j
Total now heldl by Bank a  ILrA Iprior to                 77.       22.Z
exchange rate adjustments)
Total undisbursed                                         519.5     13.9     533.4
*     yer effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments in the Philippines as of Marc?     _ 1_J l7
(Amount L'S$ million)
PFical Year              Co.pany                      Loan    Equity   Total
1963 6 1973  Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                            15.0     4.4     19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                   8.0  -    -      8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation             -      4.0      4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Company                       4.5      -       4.5
1970 i 1972 Mariwasa Manufacturing Inc.                0.8     0.4      1.2
1970         Paper Industries Corporation
of the PhilAppines                       -       2.2     2.2
1971         Philippine Petroleum Corporation          6.2      1.8     8.0
1972         Marinduque tLirning aad Induistrial
Corporation                            15.0       -     15.0
1973         Victorias Chen,ical Corporation            1.9     0.3     2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation      1.5      -      1.5
1974         Maria Christirna Chemicals                 1.5      .5     2.0
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corpsration           1.2      -      1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial
Corporation                             7.0       -      7.0
Total                                  62.6     13.6    76.2
Less sold, acquired by others.
repaid or caniccllcd              16.1     7.1    Z3122
Nov held                               46.5      6.5   53.o
Undibursed                              -       -       _



ANNEX II
Page 3
C.   Prolect In Execution 1/
Ln. No. 637-PH       Upper Pampanga River Irrigation; US$34.0 million Loan
of Au';ust 18, 1960; Date of Effectiveness: October
15. 1960; Closing Date: June 30, 1976
This is the firlst major irrigation project in the Philippines
and will supply water year*-round to nearly all its 84,000 ha command area.
The project's on-farm development scheme Is setting a pattern for future
Irrigation development in the country. Despite some delays caused by the
1972 floods, the dam was commissioned on September 7, 1974 ahead of schedule.
Most of the work has been completed and the loan is expected to be entirely
disbursed by the Closing Date. Project costs have Increased 40 percent over
appraisal estimates, largely as a result of rapid inflation, the effects of
successive devaluations of the peso, and design changes in the dam (which
accounted for nearly half the increase In costs). The increase in costs Is
being financed by the Government. However, as a result of the close coordina-
tion established between irrigation and agricultural support services, the
project is expected to reach full development in 7 years after completion of
construction, instead of 13 years which was the appraisal estimate. Also,
nearly 7,000 ha have been added to the project, mostly by including lands
which were formerly under a private irrigation system. Finally, there has
been.a considerable Increase In the projected world market price of rice.
As a result, the estimated rate of return is now more than at appraisal.
Ln. No. 720-PH       Rice Processing and Storage; US$14.3 million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
This project provides long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance a program for the development and modern-
lzation of the rice and corn processing Industry. Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of new integrated rice mills with large capacities. Due
in part to poor harvests and in part to large cost Increases for rice mills,
the demand for sub-loans for new Integrated rice mills turned out to be
small, and, as explained In the President's Memorandum dated June 8, 1972
(R72-40), the loan agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to
rehabilitation of existing rice milling facilities. In spite of this the
project made little progress.    The loan agreement was amended again in April,
1974 basically (1) to expand the scope of the project to include corn in
addition to rice, (II) to enable local governments and the Naticnal Grains
I/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
tnderstanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses In project execution.



ANNEX It
Page 4
Authority to borrow funds under the project, and (lit) to streamline pro-
curement procedures (President's memorandum SecMK74-244 of April 15, 1974).
As a result of these amendments, the project Is now progressing satisfactori-
ly and the loan is expected to be fully committed by June 30, 1976, and
fully disbursed before the revised Closing Date, June 30, 1977.
l.n. No. 731-PH      HiRhway; US$8.0 million Loan of April 14, 1971;
Date of Effectiveness: July 23, 1971; Closing Date:
June 30. 1976
The project Is financing the construction and Improvement of the
Cotabato - Digos road in Mindanao (160 km). Construction Is only 55 percent
complete based on the original scope of works, the delay being mainly due
to cLvil disturbances and army activity on part of the road representing
about 20 percent of the total roadworks. As there Is little chance of the
contractor being able to enter this area, the Bank has agreed to a Government
proposal to delete this strctch of the road from the contract and eventually
execute the work by force account; the undisbursed amount of the loan fund
will be applied to the balarice of works which can be completed by contract.
The total cost of the reduced project is estimated to be about US$16.4 million
compared to appraisal estimate of US$15.8 million. The increase in cost
Is due to a rise In construction costs which has been substantial since oil
price Increases In late 197:1. The roadworks have been completed In December
1975. The other components of the project Including UNDP-financed feas-
ibility studies were completed In 1973.    The closing date has been extended
from May 15, 1975 to June 3(1, 1976. Technical assistance to the Department
of Public Hlighways Is continuing with Bank financing under the Second I1igh-
way Project.
Ln. No. 809-PH       Fifth Power; US$22.0 and US$10.0 million Loan
and                  and Credit of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness;
Cr. No. 296-P11      July 1, 1972; Closing Date:    Juine 30, 1978
The nroject Is heltping the National Power CorporatJon (NPC) to
finance the constrttction of a second thermal unit of 150-MW at Bataan and
transmission facilities in Luzon. The project Is proceeding satisfactorily,
and the unit is expected to be commissioned during the second quarter of
1976. The erection of transmission lines has been somewhat delayed duc to
unifavorable weather and poor soil conditions and is now expected to be
completed In June 1976. A t:ariff Increases was approved, effective
July 1, 1974, and a new tariff Increase is under active consideration.
I.n. No. 823-Plh     Livestock   US$7.5 million Loan of Flay 25, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: November 9, 1972; Closing
Date: i)ecember 31, 1978
The project Is assisting Government In carrying out Its livestock
development program through credft supervised by the Development Bank of the
Philippines. The start of DBP lending operations was delayed by about six



ANNEX II
Page 5
months because of late appointment of technical staff. Sub-loan commitments
were slow therefore but they improved so that all funds were fully committed
by December 1975. The project has expanded the agricultural credit capabillty
of DBP into a new and important field thus meeting a previously unsatisfied
demand for loans for small to medium scale livestock projects.
Cr. No. 471-PH      Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; US$9.5 million Credit of
May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: August 22, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Ln. No. 984-PH       Aurorca-Penaranda Irrigation; US$9.5 million Loan of
May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: August 22, 1974
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This Is the second irrigation development and rehabilitation pro-
ject in the Philippines to be financed by the Bank. The project diverts
water from the Aurora basin into the Pantabangan Reservoir, to provide year-
round irrigation for 25,300 ha of rice land in Central Luzon. The project
also includes an Irrigation Development Study for Central Luzon to Inventory
water, land, and other resources and Identify priority irrigation projects.
Although there has been some delay in constructing the two diversion dams
because of the need for more extensive foundations and abutment area grouting
than originally expected, most difficulties have been overcome and the work is
progressing satisfactorily. Diversion of 75 percent of Aurora water into
Pantabangan Reservoir was achieved in September 1975, one year ahead of the
appraisal schedule. In the area served by the project, lack of competition
and high bids have delayed awarding of contracts. Urgent work is being done by
Government force account. Project costs have increased about 54 percent over
appraisal estimates, largely as a result of inflation.     There would be added
benefits from early diversion, however, resulting in additional water for
irrigation sooner than planned, but the rate of return Is expected to fall
from 17 percent at appraisal to 14 percent.
Ln. No. 998-PH       Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-farmers:
US$50.0 million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: September 9, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the loan are belng relent to the Development Bank
of the Phllippines (DBP). The Industrial portlon of the loan (US$48 mil-
lion) Is being used by DBP to finance direct Imports for medium and relatively
large Industrial projects. DBP is using the balance (US$2 million) to finance
about 1,300 smallholders In a pilot tree-farming project. As of March 31,
1976 commitments for sub-loans totalling $44.7 million had been made. The
project Is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Ln. No. 1010-PH      Third Rurfil Credit; US$22.0 million Loan of June 17, 1974;
Dre' of Elfectiveness:  August 27, 1974; Closing Date:
December 11, 1977
The Central Bank relends the proceeds of the Loan (except for
a small amount for an evaluation study) to participating banks. These on-
lend the funds to farmers and rural entrepreneurs to finance investment
in farm mecha.ilzation, on- farm transportation, farm support facilities
and equipment, coastal and lnland fisheries, small-scale livestock development
and cottage-scale agro-industry. The project also provides for a review
of the effectiveness of the First, Second and this project. The loan became
effective on August 27, 1974, and is expected to be fully committed in 1976.
Collection of arrears by about 200 participating banks from beneficiaries
under the first and second projects Is not satisfactory. This Is being
watched closely by Bank staff and appropriate steps are being taken by the
Central Bank to improve such collections.
Ln No. 1034-PH       Sixth Power:  ZS$61.0 million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974: Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance a 100 MW hydro plant at Pantabangan and transmission lines for the
further expansion of the Luzon grid and feasibility studies by consultants
for a future power project. Major equipment for the plant has been con-
tracted and project commissioning is expected In January 1977 - three months
ahead of original schedule. The transmission component of the project Is
proceeding In stages. Some Lines are under construction and others are being
procured. The design work has been delayed due to NPC's heavy construction
program.  It Is now expected that this part of the project will be completed
by the end of 1978, I.e. one year behind schedule. NPC raised its tariffs on
July 1, 1974, and a new tarif increase Is under active consideration.
Cr. No. 349-PH       Second Education; US$12.7 million Credit of January 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: April 11, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31. 1978
The Credit is helping to finance a project for development of
technical and vocational education and for improvement in curriculum de-
velopment and teacher training. Construction has been about 11 months
behind schedule-mainly due to delays In the finalization of design/drawing of
buildings and recruitment of specialist services. This delay ls being
reduced through effective management by the project unit. Procurement of
equipment is on schedule. Eoth the program and schedule of technical
assistance have been revised to suit the current needs of project institu-
tions and to expedite lmplementation.   Disbursements are ahead of the



ANNEX II
Page 7
appraisal estimate. Project costs are now estimated to be about 25 percent
higher than the appraisal estimates. Despite initial delays, the project is
expected to be completed on schedule.
Ln. No. 891-PH       Fisheries; US$11.6 million Loan of May 21, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1973, Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
This project is *iesigned to provide long term credit to the
private sector through the Development Bank of the Philippines for marine
and inland fisheries development. The loan became effective on December 5,
1973. The demand for loans is adequate, and the organization to Implement them
has been properly established. The project is progressing satisfactorily, and
all funds are expected to be fully committed during June 1976.
Ln. No. 939-PH       Second Ports: US$6.1 million Loan of October 24. 1973
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973;
ClosinZ Date: December 31. 1977
This project provides for the rehabilitation and expansion of
the ports of General Santos and Cagayan de Oro In the island of Mindanao.
The contract for General S3ntos was awarded in May 1975 and work is
progressing satisfactorily. For Cagayan de Oro, after about nine months
delay, the contract was awarded on March 12, 1976 and work has now
commenced.
Ln-. No. 950-PH      Second Highway; US$68.0 million Loan of December 12,
1973; )ate of Effectiveness: December 27, 1973;
Closln  Date:   December 31, 1977
The project is helping the Government to implement its program
of const;uction, lmprovemenit and rehabilitation of highways and feeder roads,
by financing the constructlon, improvement and rehabilitation of 1,400 kms of
roads in Luzon. 'Work has begun on all 14 contracts, 10 of which were awarded
to local contractors. Costs have increased sharply, but price adjustments are
being awarded to contractors by the Government to offset the sharp rises in
costs of basic materials, fEuels and labor. The UNDP financed Road Feasibility
Studies (Phase II), for which the Bank Is executing Agency, have been completed
and a possible Third Highway project Is now being appraised. Execution of
other minor project items Is proceeding generally on schedule.
Ln. No. 1035-PH      Populatlon; US$25.0 million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date oE Effectiveness: November 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is assilsting the Government Is expanding rural health
Infrastructure, staff training facilities, and research and communications
capacity. This will help :he Philippines achieve their long-term goal of
fertility reduction. It is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 8
No. No. 1048-PIl     Inter-Island Shipping; US$20 million Loan of October
29, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The Government is relending the proceeds of the loan to the Develop-
nent Bank of the Philippines for onlendIng to beneficiaries for the acquisi-
tion of new and used ships and for major repairs and conversions. The loan
became effective on January 15, 1975.   It Is progressing sattsfactorily.
In. No. 1052-PH      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
US$30 million Lcan of November 12, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 7, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project assists in the financing of Industrial sub-projects,
the bulk of which are expected to go to export-oriented manufacturing projects.
As of 'larch 31, 1976, commitments for sub-loans totallilng $7.8 million had
been made.
Ln No. 1080-PH      Tarlac Irrigatlon; US$17.U million Loan of January 27,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975;
Closing DVite: Decenher 31, 1980
The project is assisting the Covernment to Improve and expand irrig-
ation on 34,000 hectares of land In Central [iuzon. It also includes a ground-
water pilot scheme, a water management trainaing program and a national irrig-
ation systems improvement study.   The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1102-P11     Rural Development; VS$2S.() million Loan of April 16,
1975; Date of EffectIvenvss:   July 28, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project Is assisting Lhe Government to carry out a rural develop.
ment project on the Island of Hlindoro, hiAch includes infrastructure and
Irrigatlon lmprovcments, and ecological and health lmprovement measures. The
Loan became effective on July 28, 1975. It is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln.  No. 1120-PII    Small and Hledium Industries Development; US$30.0
million Loan of Juiie 5, 1975;
Date of El'fectiveness:  August 20, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1979
The Government is relending $15 million of the loan proceeds to
the Developnent Bank of the Phillppines (IPI') and '$12 millIon to the Indus-
tria} Ctiarantee Louan Ftund (IC1.F) to finance a wide range of small and meditm-
sized industrlst  sub-projects:. $2.3 millionl to the National Flectrification



ANNEX II
Page 9
Administration (NEA) to fineance the establishment of 24 Industrial producer
cooperatives; $0.7 million to tha Department of Industry (DOI) to establish 7
Small Business Advisory Centers to provide technical assistance to small
industries. The project iEi progressing satisfactorily and as of March 31,
1976 disbursements for sub-loans totalling S4.9 million had been made.
Ln. No. 1154-PH      Magat lultipurpose Project: US$42.0 million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4,
1975: Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 35,000 ha of land in the Cagayan Valley, Northern Luzon.
It provides for the construction or upgrading of about 830 kms of project
roads, construction of an airstrip, access roads and a bridge across the
Hagat River near the Magat River Irrigation System diversion dam. The pro-
ject also provides for deta.iled engineering studies and economic evaluation
of the proposed Magat Dam and reservoir, a water management training program
and technical assistance to the National Irrigation Administration, the
lmplementating agency, in systems operation and construction management.
Consultants have been selected and have begun work on the engineering and
economic evaluation studies. The loan became effective on November 4, 1975.
Ln. No. 1190-PH      Industrial Investment; US$75.0 million Loan of
Januars 28. 1975; Date of Effectiveness: Net yet
effective; Closing Date: -March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the loan are being relent to the Development
Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for sub-lomns to finance direct imports
for medium and relatively large industrial projects. The loan became
effective on April 6, 1976, and the project is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1224-PH      Third Education Projew:; $25 million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: Not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project Is designed to assist the Government in strengthening
Its capacity to develop, produce and distribtute textbooks on a continuous
basis. It covers the first phase of the Government's eight-year textbook
program (1976-1980) and provides for the development, production and dis-
tribution of 27 milllon textbooks. It also provides for curriculum
development, teacher training and technical assistance. The loan was signed
on April 8, 1976, but is not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1225-PH.     Second Livestock; US$20.5 million Loan of April 8, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: Not yet effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project would specifically help finance about 1,850 pig farms,
460 poultry farms, 200 small beef cattle farms, 440 mixed coconut and



ANNEX II
Page 10
cattle farms, 60 hill beef faras, 10 municipal slaughter houses and support-
ing technical services and research. The loan was signed on April 8, 1976,
but is not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1227-PH      Chico Rlver Irrigation Project; US$50.0 million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: Not yet
effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project will assist the Government to improve and expand irrig-
ation on 19,700 ha in the Cagayan Valley. It includes improvement of 65 km of
provincial roads in the area adjacent to the Magat River Multipurpose Project
(Loan No. 1154-PH) and includes technical asststance for an erosion control
study of the Magat and Pampanga river caLchments and the establishment of a
monitoring system.   The loan was signed on April 8, 1976, but is not yet
effective.



ANNEX III
Page I of 6
PHILIPPINES
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           RepublLc of the Philippines
Beneficlarles:      The National Housing Authority (NHA), the Hanila Water
Supply and Sewerage System (MWSS), the Department of
Puiblic Works, Transportation and Communications (DPWTC)
and the Department of Public Highways (DPH).
Amount:             US$32.0 million equivalent.
Terms:              The Banlk loan for $22 million would be for a term of 22
years, Including a grace period of 5 years and at an
Interest rate of 8.5 percent per annum. The Third Window
Loan of $10.0 million would be on standard Third Window
loan terms.
Relending Terms:    The Government would relend $17.6 million of the
proceeds of the loan to NHA and $1.3 million to MWSS, on
the saine terms as those of the Bank loan, and would
allocate $10.8 million to DPH., and $2.3 million to
DPWTC. For the cottage industry and housing materials
lines sf credit, subloans to ultimate borrowers would
be for terms of up to 5 years, with no grace period,
and at an interest rate of 12 or 14 percent per annum.
Project
Description:      The project Includes:
Tondo Foreshore
(a) Construction of water supply, sewerage, surface-water
drainage, roads, footpaths and street lighting and a
line of credit for housing materials to upgrade the
180 ha of the Tondo Foreshore with a population after
development of about 160,000 living in 15,000
structures;
(b) provision of about 1,000 serviced lots and core units
on now vacant land In the Tondo Foreshore;
(c) provision of community facilities, Including 119 new
primary school classrooms and one new 49-room high
school to accommodate students on a double-shift



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 6
basis, 25 multi-purpose community centers; upgrading
of 2 existing municipal health centers and construc-
tion cif a new 25-bed health center; preventive health
programs and services to train about 300 volunteer
medical and community health workers, identification
and treatment of all malnourished children, infant
food preparation, nutrition education for mothers,
immunJlzation, deworming, vermin and rodent control
campaiLgns, Vitamin A and iron supplement programs,
a fam:Lly planning campaign, and monitoring and
evalwLtion programs;
(d) proviniton of 5.7 ha of new industrial/commercial
sites,, 9.4 ha of mixed commercial/residential
land, a vocational and skills training program,
a pilot scheme for a cottage industry line of
credil: and related technical assistance;
Dagat-Dagatan
(e) constiruction of water supply, sewerage, surface-water
drainage, roads, footpaths, street lighting, 2,000
serviced lots and core units on a 40-ha first phase
sites and services development and a line of cre(ilt
for housing materials;
(f) provii3ion of community facilities, including 45 new
prLiary school classrooms, 3 multi-purpose community
centers, I new health center (with a 25-bed capa-
city); preventive health programs and services as for
the Tondo Foreshore;
(g)  provision of 3.5 ha cf new industrial/commercial
sites, 2 ha of mixed commercial/residential land and
extension of Tondo Foreshore cottage industry program;
Off-IOte Infrastructure
(h) rehabilitation of the existing Tondo Sewage Pumping
Station and provision of a new outfall sever:
construction of stabilization ponds and temporary
(above ground) water mains at Dagat-Dagatan;
Major Roads
(I) construction of 2.4 km of the R-10 to four lanes and
3 km to two lanes, construction of 1.7 km of circum-
ferential roads C-2 and C-3, and construction of 0.4 km
of the malor road through Dagat-Dagatan;



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 6
Traffic and Transport Improvements
(j) provision of 38 new sets of traffic signals, re-
placement of 50 sets and linking of 88 traffic
signals within the area bounded by C-2, equipment
for a central traffic control center, and 400
mobile radios for police traffic control, geo-
metric Improvements to 60 junctions, road mark-
ing paint for 200 junctions and for 200 crosswalks;
Limprovement of about 20 km of footpaths; and
construction of about 150 bus shelters;
Technical Assistance
(k)  con.ultant servlces for:   detailed design and con-
struction supervision of the physical works In the
Tondo Foreshore and Dagat-Dagatan (102 man-months);
o:rganization, management and financial planning for
the National Housing Authority (NHA) (72 man-months);
and feasibility studies to develop a possible second
Manila urban development project (60 man-months);
(1) consultant services for detailed design of project
roads and for implementation of the traffic engineer-
Ing and management component (125 man-months);
(m) technical assistance to DPWTC on behalf of the
Metropolitan Mar.ila Commision for: (i) a fiscal
base study; (ii) a cadastral survey for metropolitan
Mlanila; (ill) a municipal services study; and
(iv) staff training and fellowships (35 man-months);
(n) technical assistance to DPWTC for a metropolitan
?anila transportation/land-use study (98 man-months);
and
(o) technical asistance to DPWTC for a national trans-
portation investment plan for 1977-80, a national
transport systems study, and for strengthening the
planning capabilities of the various Government
transportation agencies (60 man-months).



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 6
Foreign
Estimated Cost                       Local     Foreign     Total      Exchange
-----US$ million---------- 
A. Tondo Foreshore
Land, including Survey         t.38       0.18        1.56        11
Civil Works                    6.94       5.46       12.40        44
Community Facilities           !.75       1.37        3.12        44
Housing Materials
Loans and Core Units        1.02       0.34        1.36        21
Cottage Industry Loans         0.17       0.1i        0.33        50
Experimental Area              0.23       0.19       0.42         44
Sub-Total                 11.49       7.70       19.19        40
B.  Outfall Sewer                     0.43       0.64        1.07        60
C. Dagat-Dagatan
Land and Reclamation
and Survey                  o.67       1.25       1.92         63
Civil Works                    1.10       0.86        1.96        44
Community Facilities           0.50       0.33       0.83         40
Housing Materials              0.99       0.33        1.32        25
Loans and Core Units
Employment and Relocation      0.02       0.02       0.04         59
Sub-Total                  3.28       2.79       6.07         46
D. Major Roads and Bridges
Land                           3.71         -         3.71         0
Highway Construction           1.41       2.12        3.53        60
R-10, C-2, C-3 and
Spine Road
Steel Sheet Piling             0.84       1.26        2.10        60
Bridges over Estero
de Vitas                    0.63       0.94        1.57        60
Sub-Total                  6.59       4.32      10.91         40
E.  Traffic Improvement               1.67        3.11       4.78        65
F.  Technica, Assistance              1.16        4.62       5.78        80
Total                   24.62      23.18       47.8         49
G. Contingencies
Physical                       2.51       2.42        4.93        49
Price                          6.27       6.03       12.30        49
Sub-Total                  8.78       8.45       17.23        49
H. Total Project Cost                33.4        31.63      65.03        49



ANNEX III
Page 5 of 6
Financing Plan:                                          US$ Million
Source of Funds
Project Component           Total Cost     GOP        IBRD
rondo Upgrading                27.1        13.9      13.2
Outfall Sewer                   1.5         0.2       1.3
Dagat-Dagatan                   7.7         4.9       2.8
Major Roads                    13.6         9.7       3.9
Traffic Improvement             6.9         2.6       4.3
Technical Assistance            8.2         1.7       6.5
Total                 65.o        33.0      32.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                                    US$ Million
FY77    FY78   FY79    FY80   FY81
Annual            8.25     9.96   8.42   4.68   0.69
Cumulative       8.25     18.21  26.63  31.31  32.00
Procurement
Arrangements:     Civll iiorks contracts of more than $1 million each, for
a total. of about $12 million, would be procured on the
basis of international competltive bidding procedures
in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Civil works
contracts up to $1 million each, for a total of about
$15 million, are not expected to attract foreign bid-
ders, because the works are scattered and small, and
these would be procured on the basis of competi-
tive bidding advertised locally in accordance with
procedtires satisfactory to the Bank. Contractors for
these contracts would, however, be prequalifled.
With respect to material procurement, all contracts
above $100,000 except materials for house improvement
would be procured uider international competitive
bidding procedures In accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. Contracts below $100,000 and for materials
for house Improvement ($2.9 million), which would be
phased over the project Implementation period and can-
not conveniently be bulked, would be tendered on the
basis of competitive bids advertised locally in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
For the cottage Industry loans, equipment would be
procured In accordance with DBP's procedures, which
are satisfactory.



ANNEX III
Page 6 of 6
Technical
Assistance:        Suitably qualified and experienced consultants accept-
able to the Bank would be engaged on terms and condi-
tions acceptable to the Bank to provide the technical
assistance described under parts (k) through (o) of
the Project Description section of this annex. The
total coet of technical assistance, net of contin-
gencles, is $5.8 million and the average man-month
cost is $5,800.
Rate of Return:      The economic rate of return for the Tondo Foreshore
upgradin& and Dagat-Dagatan sites and services compo-
nents is estimated at 21 percent and the estimated
economic rate of return for the industrial/commercial
development in the project area is 40 percent. The
economic rate of return for the R-1o is estimated to
be 36 percent (between circumferential roads C-1 and C-2)
and 45 percent (between the C-2 and the Dagat-Dagatan
road). For the C-2, the economic rate of return is
estimated to be 18 percent. The estimated weighted
average economic rate of return for the Tondo Foreshore,
Dagat-Dagatan and major roads components of the project
is 27 percent.
Staff Priject
Report:           No. 1032a1-PHa, dated May 5, 1976.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
PHILIPPINES
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary ro1ect Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time Taken by Country to Prepare the Project:
Project prepared in approximately two years (July 1973-July 1975).
(b) Project prepared by Project Planning and Development Office (PPDO)
in the Department of Public Works. Transportation and Communications
(DPWTC) and the Department of Public Highways (DPH), with the
assistance of various short-term consultants.
(c) First Presentation to th,e Bank:
First Bank mission to consider the project: October 1973.
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:   July 15 1975.
Departure of Follow-up Appralsal Mission: November 4 1975.
(e) Completion of Negotiations: April 1976.
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: August 1976.



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
Section II: Speclal Bank lmplementation Actions
(a)   The Bank and the PhiLppine Government have agreed on an Implementation
Timetable to ensure effective project implementation.
(b)   A Bank mission would visit Manila in July/August to review progress
towards meeting conditions of effectiveness and in project implement-
ation.
(c)   In particular, Bank staff will during the coming months need to
review:
(i)  the draft subsidlary loan agreements and final LOI;
(ii) arrangements by NHA for appointment of consultants for
engineering and financial and management services;
(iii) arrangements by DPH for appointment of consultants for
detailed engineering of project roads and the traffic
engineering and management component;
(iv) arrangements by DPWTC to appoint consultants for the
studies and training program undertaken on behalf of MMC
and for the assistance in national transport planning.



ANNEX .'V
Page 3 of 3
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Borrower has aLgreed to make satisfactory arrangemer.ts
to allocate to NW, sufficient funds to cover the incrementai
costs of moving families to Dagat-Dagatan affected by the work
of the Philippinesi Port Authority (PPA) at the International
Port and by the Department of Public Highways (DPH) in road
construction in the Tondo Foreshore (para 60).
(b) The Borrower has agreed to establish satisfactory procedures to
recover all project costs chargeable to project beneficiaries
from projact beneficiaries taking into account the various
revenues anticipated and the beneficiaries ability to pay (para
60).
(c) The Borrower shall institute an agreed training program for
traffic engineers in traffic engineering and management (para 52).
(d) NHA has agreed to employ on a full-time basis a deputy to the
General Manager, a chief financial officer, a chief administrative
officer, and a project development officer all with qualifications
acceptable to the Bank (para 55).
(e) NHA has agreed to employ on a full-time basis a project Manager
in the project unil: (para 55).
(f) NHA has agreed to establish a monitoring and evaluation Unit
(para 55).
(g) NHA has agreed to organize the TFDPO in a matter satisfactory
to the Bank (para '55).
(h) NHA has agreed to eippoint engineering consultants before the loan
would become effective (para 54).
(i) The Borrower would complete satisfactory subsidiary Loan Agreements
with NHA and MWSS (para 58).
(j) The Borrower would issue and make effective the Letter of Instruction
(LOI) concerning inter-agency coordination (para 54).



CIOW- UR4 -
9f'I~~~~~~~~~~~d   ~~~~~~~HOZfl1(  / ~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ jNP AAP



MANILA BAY A*
Iteroal
P.                        .9frt      Au~                                              METROPOLITAN               MANILA
tzU; .                                      i; esy;2MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Areas
Residential area
Business and Commercial Districts
-                                                                                                  H     industial and Factory Site%
mnstitutiontd, Goverrnment and Priva te Ares"
-~    \~               /1                                        Parks ond Urban Open Spoces
[_g_Transportation and Utilities Areas
t                 ~~~~~Vacornt Lands
Primary roads
Proposed Primary Roads
9 1 ?ay
a~ ~ ~  ~  ~   ~~~        W                                  K-LO- T-                                                                              t



