Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY               FILE  COPY
Report No. 1032a-PH
PHILIPPINES
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 5, 1976
Transportation and Urban Projects Department
This document ha a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUR2RENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =    Peso (P)
1 Peso            =    US$0.1333
US$1               =    P 7.5
US$1 million       =    P 7,500,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                               =   39.37 inches (in)
1 square meter (sq m)                     =   10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (cu m)                      =   35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)                          =    0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)                =    0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 centimeter (cm)                         =    0.39 inch (in)
1 square centimeter (sq cm)               =    0.155 square inch (sq in)
I hectare (ha)                            =   10,000 square meters (sq m) or
2.47 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)                               =   1.057 quarts liquid or 0.26 US gal-
lon (gal) or 0.908 quart dry (qt)
1 liter per capita per day  (lpcd)        =   0.26 US gallon per capita (ged)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCS         Bureau of Census and Statistics
BOT         Bureau of Transport
BPW         Bureau of Public Works
BVM         Barangay Volunteer Medics
CBR         California Bearing Ratio
CITRUS      Central Institute for the Training and Relocation of Urban Squatters
CBD         Central Business District
DBP         Development Bank of the Philippines
DPH         Department of Public Highways
DPWTC       Department of Public Works, Transportation and Communications
GOP         Government of the Philippines
GSIS        Government Service Insurance System
MASICAP     Medium and Small-Industry Coordinated Action Program
MBMR        Manila Bay Metropolitan Region Study
MMA         Metropolitan Manila Area
MMC         Metropolitan Manila Commission
MWSS        Metropolitan Water and Sewerage System Authority
NEDA        National Economic Development Administration
NHA         National Housing Authority
NPCC        National Pollution Control Council
PAHRA       Presidential Assistant on Community and Resettlement Agency
PBSP        Philippine Business for Social Progress
PHHC        Peoples Homesite and Housing Corporation
PNB         Philippine National Bank
PNR         Philippines National Railways
PPDO        Planning and Project Development Office
PRECHUR     Presidential Committee for Housing and Urban Resettlement
PSC         Public Service Commission
PVC         Polyvinylchloride
SPDC        Sapang Palay Development Committee
SSS         Social Security System
TFDPO       Tondo Foreshore Dagat-Dagatan Development Project Office (formerly
Tondo Foreshore Development Authority)
GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHAPTER                                                                    Page No.
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY ........................   i-xv
I.    PROJECT COMPONENTS, COSTS AND FINANCING .... .....                1
A.  The Project .................................                 1
B.  Cost Estimates ..............................                9
C.  Financing ...................................               19
II.    BORROWING AND EXECUTING AGENCIES ........ ........    21
III.    DESIGN STANDARDS AND PROJECT SPECIFICATIONS    .....    27
A.  Upgrading and Sites and Services ....            ........    27
B.  Community Facilities, Nutrition and Health
Programs ..................................              36
C.  Loans for Small-Businesses and Loans for
Building Materials ........................    40
D.  Major Roads .................................    43
E.  Traffic Improvements  ........................    44
IV.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..........................    47
A.  Procurement .................................               47
B.  Disbursement  ................................              47
C.  Technical Assistance ........................    49
D.  Monitoring and Evaluation .....             ..............    52
E.   Supervision .................................    '53
V.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ..............................    55
A.  Cost Recovery ...............................    '55
B.  Affordability ...............................               61
C.  Demand for Shelter and Replicability ....5....    65
D.  Project Cash Flow ...........................    66
This report is based on the findings of the Appraisal Mission, which comprised
Bank staff members: D.B. Cook (Chief of Mission), A. Pellegrini, D. Steel,
S. Basta, B. Veuthey and R. Middleton. The report was prepared by D.B. Cook
and A. Pellegrini.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
VI.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ..... * * * S ............            68
A.  Project Benefits ....*     ........***.....*       68
B.  Economic Analysis ...........................    69
C.  Distribution of Benefits    ....................   71
VII.   CONCLUSIONS, RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS.       71
Photographs and Sketches (back of report)
Typical Conditions in th Tondo Foreshore (1)
Typical Conditions in the Tondo Foreshore (2)
Example of Existing Conditions
Example of Existing Conditions New Tondo Pilot Area
Example of Existing Conditions Old Tondo Pilot Area
Aerial View of Tondo Foreshore
Aerial View of Old Tondo
Aerial View of Dagat-Dagatan
Maps
Project Areas
Tondo and Dagat-Dagatan Main Infrastructure
Tondo Foreshore Land Use Plan
Water and Sewerage Networks (Old Tondo Pilot Area)
Dagat-Dagatan Proposed Layout
Traffic Improvement Measures
Annex
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File



INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
THE URBAN SECTOR
A. Urban Development in the Philippines
1.        The Philippines will continue to feel the impact of population growth
and urbanization in the next two or three decades. The population is forecast
to reach 77 million by the year 2000 (from 41 million in 1974), with the
urban population growing from 32 percent to approximately 46 percent. The
number of people living in urban centers could grow from 13.2 million in 1975
to 35 million by the year 2000.
2.       'The urbanization problems facing the country are accentuated by the
predominance of metropolitan Manila. The Metropolitan Manila Area (MMA) had
an estimated population in 1975 of 5.5 million, or 13 percent of the national
total. With an average annual growth rate of 5 percent since 1960, Manila's
population is increasing faster than those of other urban areas, which had
been growing at 3-4 percent annually, because of higher rates of migration
to Manila. If present trends continue, 23 million persons could be living in
the Manila region by the end of the century, fully 65 percent of the urban and
30 percent of the total population.
3.        The Government has recognized the magnitude of the problems facing
the urban sector. It is planning and executing programs in the MMA, which
faces by far the most serious of the Philippines' urban problems. It is
also trying to promote decentralization in urban growth by developing small-
and medium-sized cities in addition to channeling resources into the MMA.
4.        Rapid growth in the service sectors, especially the informal service
sector 1/, has prevented urban population growth from being translated into
open unemployment in the cities. As in most cities, this sector accounts for
over two-thirds of total urban employment. It is likely that a large portion
of the growth in service sector employment has been in the informal service
subsector, which is estimated to account for over 60 percent of total service
employment in both urban and rural areas.
5.        Despite the significantly higher average incomes of urban areas
compared to rural areas, living standards are not necessarily higher, and
substantial poverty exists. If absolute standards of poverty are used,
about 30 percent of the urban population, or 3.2 million persons, were es-
timated to be living at or below the minimum subsistence level 2/ in 1971,
with inadequate housing and limited or no access to water, toilets and
electricity.
1/   Includes domestic services and personal services in transport, commu-
nication, government, commerce, business water and sanitation and
recreation.
2/   The minimum subsistence level is defined as the ability to afford a
minimmum adequate diet as recommended by FAO/WHO; and in the Philippines
the per capita income necessary to sustain a minimum subsistence level in
1971 was estimated to be $140 equivalent.



- ii -
6.        The housing shortage and inadequacy of service levels in urban
areas is severe and is growing rapidly. The 4.5 percent average annual
growth rate in urban housing construction from 1960 to 1970 implies that the
growth in housing in urban areas just kept pace with population growth and
did not allow for the replacement of physically inadequate dwelling units.
At the end of the 1960s, only half of all urban dwelling units had piped
water, a fifth electricity for lighting, and a tenth had a flush toilet.
7.        The urban poor occupy the least desirable of this already inadequate
housing stock. They are at a particular disadvantage because of relatively
inactive public sector involvement in housing construction and financing, and
because neither private nor public housing finance programs have significantly
assisted the lower income groups.
8.        The Government's response to these problems has been to promote
decentralization in urban growth by developing small- and medium-sized
cities in addition to channeling resources into the MMA. The Government
has recently initiated several important programs to encourage the develop-
ment of small and medium scale industries many of which provide employment
in cities outside MMA and a minucipal water supply program to establish
effective water supply systems in a large number of cities. But, this two-
pronged approach cannot obscure the fact that by far the largest part of
the country's urban problems is concentrated in Manila.
B.  Urban Development in the Metropolitan Manila Area (MMA)
9.        Manila has a larger area (870 sq km), a larger population base
and a faster annual population growth rate than other urban areas in the
Philippines; a higher unemployment rate than the national average (11 per-
cent in Manila compared to 7 percent nationally in 1971); and by far the
worst housing conditions in the country. While the proportion of the urban
poor is about the same in Manila as in other urban areas, Manila's poor are
the largest concentrated poverty group in the Philippines totalling 1.5
million, or nearly one half of the Philippines' urban poor.
10.       Employment in the MMA presently accounts for about 10 percent of
the national total. In 1971, 1.5 million persons were employed in the MMA,
of which 960,000 (or 64 percent) were in the services sector. Of the balance,
industry employed 29 percent, and agriculture and other 7 percent. Although
the informal subsector provides a large amount of employment, the earnings
and savings potential in that subsector is often not much greater than that
found in rural areas. In 1971, median family income in the MMA was estimated
by the Bureau of Census and Statistics to be about $825. However, as a re-
sult of inflation between 1972-74, real wages in the MMA declined, with wages
for unskilled workers declining by about 25 percent.
11.       The city's most pressing problems relate to shelter, health and
nutrition, urban transport and institutional capabilities. An acute housing



- iii -
shortage has been caused by rapid population growth, an inadequate existing
housing stock, and the absence of a coordinated institutional framework
to address construction and financing of housing. In 1972, approximately
50 percent of physically inadequate dwelling units in the Philippines and
80 percent in all urban areas were in the MMA. About 1.8 million persons
now live in substandard structures on unserviced lots with a very low level
of environmental sanitation.
12.       The inadequacy of sanitation facilities and of health and medical
services, compounded by flooding and standing stagnant water, have led to a
deterioration in the level of health. Cases of typhoid, cholera, other
gastrointestinal infections and malnutrition have risen noticeably since
1968, and it is clear that population increases have strained available
medical and health facilities.
13.       The MMA also suffers from major transportation problems.  Chronic
congestion has become a common condition because of population growth and a
rapid growth in the number of private passenger vehicles. In 1975, the MMA
had about 325,000, or 42 percent of all registered motor vehicles, of which
70 percent were private passenger vehicles. The situation is exacerbated by
inefficient use of existing road capacity. Public transport is mostly pro-
vided by the private sector which, because of deterioration in financial
conditions and uncertainty about Government policy towards private sector
fleet owners, has steadily reduced its investments in vehicle maintenance
and fleet renewal in recent years.
14.       The organization of local governments in the MMA has not been
conducive to effective metropolitan-wide planning or administration. How-
ever, in November 1975, the Metropolitan Manila Commission (MMC), headed
by a general manager, was established and consolidated 17 jurisdictions
into one. Previously, the MMA's government was fragmented into 32 juris-
dictions.
15.       The largest slum, and the one in most pressing need of basic urban
services, is the Tondo Foreshore. The Tondo was reclaimed from the sea in
the late 1940s and squatters moved in shortly thereafter. This community,
the upgrading of which is the centerpiece of the proposed project, covers
almost 180 ha and has a population of 27,500 families (180,000 persons) in
17,500 structures. The median family income is about $576 a year, which is
about 60 percent of the median income of the MMA.
16.       In the Tondo, the majority of households are first-generation mig-
grants. Because of its central location, the Tondo has been a convenient
place from which to attempt to find employment and to adjust to urban life.
17.       Some land registration by squatter families has taken place mostly
in the old foreshore (Old Tondo), which comprises approximately one third of
the total area. The new foreshore area (New Tondo) is still largely publicly
owned land. The fact that some households have tenure, or have been offered
it, while others have no legal right, has given rise to much unrest over the
years.



- iv -
18.       The Tondo's level of environmental sanitation is very low because
of the high population density, inadequate water and sewerage facilities
and very poor drainage. Partly as a result of this, the area's residents
suffer from severe health problems. According to a 1975 survey, infant
mortality is about 130 per 1,000 live births per year; 80 percent of pre-
school children are undernourished; more than three-quarters of the population
suffer from roundworms; 30 percent of the adult female population and more
than 40 percent of the children suffer from anemia; and much of the population
also suffers severe Vitamin A deficiencies. In 1974, there were around 500
hospital admissions for cholera in Tondo, and 707 deaths attributed to tuber-
culosis.
19.       Until now, the Government's main response to the problems of slum
and squatter areas has been a series of ad hoc projects generally involving
major relocations to distant sites, which have not been very su-ccessful.
Principal difficulties have been a lack of nearby employment opportunities
and inadequate services, especially transportation. The Government is now
planning a program, of which the proposed project is a part, designed to
upgrade blighted areas in the MMA, provide better employment opportunities
and improve the standards of operation of the responsible Government agen-
cies. To begin this program, the Government in 1974 created the Tondo Fore-
shore Development Authority (TFDA) which, together with appropriate Govern-
ment agencies, was to be responsible for executing a program of upgrading the
Tondo Foreshore. The TFDA has now been incorporated into the National Housing
Authority (NHA), which was created in July 1975, to consolidate the six
agencies formerly concerned with the provision of housing in order to help
meet the growing requirements for better shelter in the Philippines.
20.       The poor health and living conditions of the large percentage of
families living in slum and squatter areas suggest that the highest priority,
in the near term, should be to extend minimum urban services to the worst
slum areas. This effort, if made on a comprehensive area-by-area basis and
accompanied by measures which regularize land tenure, should help improve the
living conditions of Manila's poor. At the same time, a long-term shelter
program can be undertaken to help meet the needs of the approximately 40,000
new families being added annually to the population and slow the spread of
squatter areas. The Government's programmdiscussed in the preceding para-
graph are important steps to help meet these needs.
21.       Considerable development is taking place in the areas immediately
adjoining the Tondo Foreshore. Immediately to the south, reclamation and
construction of the International Port is taking place. The first phase of
port improvement will require the relocation of approximately 1,500 squatter
families to Dagat-Dagatan two miles away. At Dagat-Dagatan, reclamation is
continuing on 367 ha of unused fishponds, the first 40 ha of which would be
used by the proposed project. To the northwest of Dagat-Dagatan, reclamation
and construction of a fisheries port and associated industrial area at Navotas,
partially financed by the Asian Development Bank (ADB), is nearly complete,
and will soon require the relocation of several thousand squatters to Dagat-
Dagatan.



C. The Project
Purposes of the Project
22.       The major components of the project would respond directly to the
shelter, sanitation, employment and infrastructure problems of the Tondo
Foreshore and to the urban transport and institutional problems of Manila
in general. The upgrading of the Tondo and the new sites and services devel-
opment in Dagat-Dagatan would provide 180,000 persons in a major slum and
squatter area with secure land tenure and adequate urban services, in such
a manner that project beneficiaries will be able to afford to pay for these
services. The traffic improvement component would focus on low-cost, high-
return investments for all of Manila by providing for urgently needed traffic
control measures and equipment necessary for the efficient use of existing
infrastructure. The project would help strengthen two new institutions, the
National Housing Authority (NHA) and the Metropolitan Manila Commission
(MMC), by providing technical assistance; it would also have a formative
impact on the Government's urban program because it would be its first
comprehensive slum upgrading project. In the course of the four-year pro-
ject implementation period, the NHA is expected to significantly increase
its capacity to plan and implement similar upgrading and sites and services
projects in other parts of Manila and in other cities in the Philippines.
23.       Looking beyond the individual components, the project aims to
assist the Government in initiating a new approach to the city's pressing
shelter and sanitation problems and to encourage transport investment pro-
jects involving relatively low capital input. The project seeks to de-
monstrate that upgrading and improvement in situ is an appropriate alter-
native to resettlement, which has hitherto been the policy adopted by the
Government. The integration of health, nutrition and other social service
improvements with physical improvements in water supply, sewerage and
drainage, both in the Tondo Foreshore and at Dagat-Dagatan, is expected to
demonstrate an approach which is not only comprehensive but is also replic-
able in other slum areas of Manila and other cities in the Philippines.
24.       The project was prepared by the Government with the assistance
of various short-term consultants. Bank missions appraised the project
in July and November 1975, and Negotiations were held in Washington in
April 1976. The Government's negotiating team was led by His Excellency
Eduardo Z. Romualdez, the Philippine Ambassador to the United States.
Project Components and Design Standards
25.       The project would provide improved environmental sanitation infra-
structure and social services for the Tondo Foreshore, one of Manila's
worst slums, develop a first phase of sites and services settlement at
neighboring Dagat-Dagatan and build and improve trunk roads in the Tondo
Foreshore area. It would also provide traffic engineering and management



- vi -
improvements and technical assistance for the Metropolitan Manila Government.
Included in the project, at the request of the Government, is technical
assistance for national transportation planning. The project would in-
clude:
(a)  Tondo Foreshore Upgrading.  Upgrading a 180 ha area, with
a population after development of about 160,000 persons
living in 15,000 structures, by providing basic urban
infrastructure and health, education and other welfare
services, materials for house improvement and cottage
industry loans, about 1,000 new serviced lots and core units
on now vacant land, and about 15 ha of land for industrial
and commercial use;
(b)  Dagat-Dagatan.  Development of a residential community
for about 20,000 persons after development on about 40 ha
by providing basic infrastructure and health, education
and other welfare services, materials for house improve-
ment and cottage industry loans, 2,000 residential lots with
simple sanitary core units for lease with option to purchase
by families displaced from the Tondo Foreshore, and about
3.5 ha of land for industrial/commerical use;
(c)  Offsite Infrastructure.  Rehabilitation of the exist-
ing Tondo Sewerage Pumping Station and construction of a
new outfall sewer to replace the existing sewer, which has
deteriorated to the point that it is inadequate for the
efficient and sanitary discharge of existing or anticipated
sewage flows from the Tondo Foreshore; and construction of
stabilization ponds and temporary (above ground) water
mains at Dagat-Dagatan;
(d)  Major Roads.  Construction of 5.4 km of the R-10 road
between C-1 and Dagat-Dagatan, construction of 1.7 km of
circumferential roads C-2 and C-3 and construction of
0.4 km of the Dagat-Dagatan road to provide access
to the Dagat-Dagatan resettlement site and to facilitate
traffic movement out of the International Port area;
(e)  Traffic Improvement.  Construction of junction improvement,
road markings and footpaths, and bus shelters and provision
of signals, signal-linking equipment and mobile radios
to improve the use of existing infrastructure; and
(f)  Technical Assistance.  Consultants (about 46 man-years) would
be retained by:
(i) the NHA for detailed design and construction super-
vision of the physical works in the Tondo Foreshore
and Dagat-Dagatan; organization, management and



- vii -
financial planning for the NHA and the Tondo Foreshore
Development Unit; and feasibility studies to develop
a possible second urban development project;
(ii) the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
(MWSS) for detailed engineering of the outfall sewer;
(iii) the Department of Highways (DPH) for detailed design
of project roads and for design and implementation of
the traffic engineering and management component of the
project;
(iv) the Department of Public Works, Transportation and
Communications (DPWTC) for: a metropolitan Manila
transport/land-use study; and on behalf of the MMC
for a fiscal base study, a cadastral survey for metro-
politan Manila to update the existing survey which
covers only half the land, a municipal services study,
and staff training; and
(v) the DPWTC to assist in preparing a national trans-
portation investment plan for 1977-80 and a national
transport systems study; and to help strengthen the
planning capabilities of the various Government
transportation agencies.
26.       The design standards selected for the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat-
Dagatan provide for individual water and sewer hookups and, in the case of
Dagat-Dagatan, for individual electricity connections. These design stand-
ards were selected after full consideration of several alternative solutions
ranging from individual pit latrines to group facilities. They would mini-
mize the need for relocation of Tondo Foreshore residents, but nevertheless
about 500 families will be relocated to Dagat-Dagatan because of improvements
to roads and the introduction of infrastructure. In addition, the project
will provide sites at Dagat-Dagatan for another 1,500 families, most of whom
would be dislocated from the International Port area because of Port expan-
sion and from the Navotas Fisheries Port. All lots at Dagat-Dagatan would
be provided with a common wall, basic plumbing and a concrete floor, all of
which would be financed by the monthly lease payment. New lot occupants
would bring existing structures from their present location. A variety of
materials for house improvement would also be available for purchase, and
house materials loans would be available to enable project beneficiaries to
make improvements.
Project Execution and Management
27.       The NHA, established in late 1975 to plan and execute a national
housing program, would be the principal Government agency implementing the
project. The staff of the former TFDA has been absorbed by the NHA and are
now in the Tondo Foreshore/Dagat-Dagatan Project Development Office (TFDPO),



- viii -
which is the unit in the NHA with prime responsibility for executing the Tondo
Foreshore and Dagat-Dagatan parts of the proposed project. The NHA would also
be responsible for coordinating very closely with the other Government
agencies which execute other parts of the project:
(a) the DPH, which would be executing the major roads components
and the traffic improvement component, for the execution of
which it has agreed to institute a training program for traf-
fic engineers in traffic engineering and management satisfac-
tory to the Bank by December 31, 1976 (see Section 3.04 of the
Loan Agreement);
(b) the MWSS, which would construct the sea outfall sewer and
the Tondo Pumping Station and which would provide technical
assistance to the NHA for the water supply and sewerage
elements;
(c) the DPWTC, which would be responsible for major flood drain-
age works, the transport/land-use study, the fiscal base study,
the cadastral survey, the municipal services study, and
staff training; and
(d) the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP), and at NHA's
option, the Philippine National Bank (PNB) or Philippine
Business for Social Progress (PBSP), which would administer
the lines of credit for cottage industry.
In addition, the DPWTC will be executing agency for the technical assistance
in national transportation planning. These agencies are suitably staffed
and organized to carry out their responsibilities under the proposed project;
the DPH, the MWSS and the DPWTC would also employ suitably qualified consult-
ants on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (see Section 3.03 of the
Loan Agreement).
28.       The NHA would also coordinate with six other agencies which would
be taking over operation and maintenance of project facilities, once they have
been completed by the NRA:
(a) the Department of Education and the Manila City
Schools Office, which would be responsible for
operation and maintenance of the completed educational
facilities;
(b) the Department of Health and the Manila City Health
Office, which would be responsible for operation and
maintenance of the health centers and clinics; and
(c) the National Nutrition Council and the POPCOM, which
would run the nutrition and family planning programs,
respectively, included in the project.



- ix -
29.       The relevant responsibilities of the agencies involved have been
spelled out in a draft Presidential Letter of Instruction (LOI). In order
to ensure that the NHA, a new agency, can successfully execute and manage
the project, the project includes financing for a substantial amount of
technical assistance in engineering, planning, organization and financial
management. The NHA agreed during negotiations that this would be carried
out by suitably qualified consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. The employment of engineering consultants by NHA and the
issuance and effectiveness of the LOI would be conditions of effectiveness
of the proposed loan (see Section 7.01 (b) and 7.01 (c) of the Loan
Agreement).
30.       The NHA also agreed, during negotiations, to a satisfactory plan
of organization for the TFDPO (see Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement) and
agreed to arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for filling key staff posi-
tions with suitably qualified personnel (Section 4.05 of the Loan Agreement).
In addition, the NHA agreed to establish and staff a project monitoring and
evaluation system to monitor the progress of the project (see Section 4.03
of the Loan Agreement). With these arrangements, the Government would be
able to execute the project satisfactorily.
Project Cost and Financing
31.       The estimated total cost of the project is $65 million, with a
foreign exchange component of $32 million, or 49 percent of total project
costs. The estimates include an overall 10 percent physical contingency
allowance. This includes a 25 percent allowance on tertiary infrastructure
items, because of great difficulties in determining in advance of actual
work the specific requirements of each individual lot; and a 56 percent
allowance on the interceptor sewer, because of extremely difficult soil con-
ditions. The estimate also include an allowance for increases in domestic
and foreign prices on the basis of an annual increase of 10 percent cal-
culated in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. The average man-month cost
of consultant services is estimated to be $5,800. The project is scheduled
for completion by March 1981.
32.       The proposed Bank loans for this project would be for the equivalent
of $32 million and would consist of a Third Window Loan of $10 million and a
Bank loan of $22 million. The loans would be made to the Government and
would finance the foreign exchange costs. Of the balance of $33 million,
the NHA would finance $19.2 million, the MWSS $0.3 million and the Govern-
ment $13.5 million. The Bank loan would be for a term of 22 years, including
a grace period of 5 years, at the standard Bank interest rate. The Third
Window Loan would be made on standard Third Window Loan terms.
33.       Of the total proceeds of the loans, $17.6 million would be relent
to the NHA under a subsidiary loan agreement, on the same terms as those
of the Bank loan, to help finance the Tondo Foreshore, Dagat-Dagatan, tech-
nical assistance to NHA, and lines of credit for materials for house improve-
ment and cottage industry; $1.3 million would be relent to MWSS under a sub-
sidiary loan agreement on the same terms as those of the Bank loan, to help



x 
finance the outfall sewer and the Tondo Pumping Station. The conclusion
of these subsidiary loan agreements would be conditions of effective-
ness of the proposed loan (see Section 7.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement).
About $10.8 million would be allocated to the DPH for construction of the
major roads and for the implementation of the traffic engineering component;
and $2.3 million would be allocated to DFWTC to finance the land-use/transport
study, the national transportation planning assistance, and the fiscal base
study, the municipal services study, training and cadastral surveys that DPWTC
is administering for the Metropolitan Manila Commission. For the housing
materials loans ($2.9 million), NHA would enter into an agreement with DBP,
and for the cottage industry loans ($0.4 million) with DBP and, at NHA's op-
tion, with PNB or PBSP to administer the loans. The onlending institutions
would receive a 3 percent spread on funds and provide loans to ultimate bor-
rowers at an interest rate of not less than 12 percent per annum. For cottage
industry loans, a special one-time fee of 2 percent would also be charged and
retained by NHA, which would share the risk of default under arraignments to
be agreed with the lending institutions referred to above.
Cost Recovery for the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat-Dagatan Components
34.       While housing has been increasingly recognized as an urgent need
and while squatting on unserviced land has become an increasingly difficult
problem, mobilization of resources into the housing sector has been hindered
in the recent past by the belief that the poor cannot afford to pay for the
housing and services they would receive, and that large-scale subsidies would
be required to initiate any substantial program. The general approach adopted
for the proposed project was to seek full cost recovery, while simultaneously
including in the project other sources of revenue that could be used to help
pay for the project and thus reduce charges to the low-income families now
living in the area. Project charges to beneficiaries have, therefore, been
reduced by the amount of revenue anticipated from the sale or lease of about
19 ha of industrial and major commercial property in the project area. The
sale and lease of this property is expected to produce gross revenues equiva-
lent to about $13.5 million.
35.       In Dagat-Dagatan, costs would be further reduced by a total of
$2.5 million, which is the estimated incremental cost of upgrading the lots
of those families who have to be relocated in Dagat-Dagatan because of works
being undertaken by the Philippine Port Authority (PPA) and the DPH, which
are implementing respectively a port expansion project at the International
Port and the major road projects in the Tondo Foreshore area. The Government
agreed during negotiations to make satisfactory arrangements for the provision
of the funds necessary to pay for the incremental cost of providing lots to
families who will have to be resettled as a result of port expansion and
highway construction (see Section 5.05 of the Loan Agreement). These arrange-
ments would enable the NRA to charge identical lease prices in both the Tondo
Foreshore and Dagat-Dagatan, even though unit costs at Dagat-Dagatan are
higher than the unit upgrading costs at the Tondo Foreshore. The total cost
of the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat-Dagatan infrastructure, excluding schools
and health clinics, is $27.9 million. The cost reductions, totalling about



- xi -
$16 million, would leave a net balance of about $12 million to be recovered
from project beneficiaries to finance the full cost of the internal infra-
structure in the Tondo Foreshore and at Dagat-Dagatan. The Government agreed
during negotiations to recover these costs (see Section 5.04 of the Loan
Agreement).
36.       Cost recovery in Tondo and Dagat-Dagatan will generally be through
25-year renewable leases, with an option to purchase after 5 years. Monthly
lease payments (and assessment taxes) would be set to cover the development
costs referred to in the preceding paragraph over 25 years at an annual
interest rate of 12 percent. A feature of the lease will be its transfer-
ability. Lease holders may sell their leases should they decide to move.
Since the lease in this case will be an increasingly valuable asset and will
have many similarities to ownership it is expected that there will be a con-
siderable incentive to residents to continue to make monthly payments and to
invest in and improve their property.
37.       The project has been designed to enable the great majority of
existing Tondo Foreshore residents to afford the project benefits. A lease
payment of $0.13/sq m per month equivalent would cover full development costs
after the cost reductions described in paragraph 35. In addition, a family
would pay normal charges for water and sewerage, property taxes and, if con-
nected, electricity. It is estimated that an average family would make a
monthly payment of $6.60 for all these expenditures except electricity in
1978, compared to $3.75 in 1974. In real terms, this would be an increase
of $1.15 per month by 1978. On this basis, an average size lot could be
afforded by about 75 percent of the Tondo Foreshore families, and a some-
what smaller lot could be afforded by about 85 percent.
38.       It has not been possible to provide individual living accommodations
that would be affordable by all income groups in the Tondo Foreshore, but the
vast majority of persons with incomes below the 15th percentile are tran-
sients and/or renters of small rooms. These persons are expected to continue
renting rooms in the area and to receive substantial indirect benefits from
the project.
Procurement and Disbursement
39.       Civil works contracts of more than $1 million each, for a total of
about $14 million, would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Because of the need to
undertake the work in small areas on a block-by-block basis, civil works con-
tracts of less than $1 million each, for a total of about $15 million, are
not suitable for international competitive bidding. These would be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with
Government procedures which are acceptable.
40.       For equipment and material procurement except materials for house
improvement, all contracts above $100,000 would be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.



- xii -
A preference limited to 15 percent of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or
the customs duty whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers
in the evaluation of bids. Contracts below $100,000 and for materials for
house improvement ($2.9 million) which would be phased over the project
implementation period and cannot easily be bulked, would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with Govern-
ment procedures which are acceptable. For the cottage industry loans, equip-
ment would be procured on the basis of DBP's guidelines, which are satisfactory.
41.       For the Tondo Foreshore, Dagat-Dagatan, offsite infrastructure,
major road and traffic engineering components, disbursements would be made
against 100 percent of the c.i.f. cost of directly imported equipment, mate-
rials and supplies; 65 percent of such items procured locally. For civil
works, the disbursement percentages are based on the estimated foreign ex-
change costs and with the exception of the outfall sewer, would be at the
rate of 40 percent against certified monthly progress payments or expendi-
tures. For the outfall sewer, disbursements would be made against 60 per-
cent of expenditures. For consultants' services, disbursements would be
made against 100 percent of foreign costs or 80 percent of total expenditures.
Disbursements for small-business loans would be made against 60 percent of
the value of loans against supporting evidence of disbursements on a quarter-
ly basis.
42.       Retroactive financing is recommended for about $2 million equiva-
lent for consultants' services in assisting with project preparation since
September 1975 and for initial civil works carried out at Dagat-Dagatan and
the Tondo Foreshore. Since January 1976. This work was essential for
the effective initial implementation of the project and was undertaken in
consultation with the Bank.
Monitoring
43.       The Government has included a system of monitoring in the project.
This will ensure that data essential to project execution is provided to
project managers, and that the design and execution of future projects be-
nefits from the experience of this project. Monitoring of the upgrading,
sites and services, health and employment generation components of the
project will be under the general supervision of a special unit within the
NHA. Monitoring of the transportation component will be the responsibility
of the Planning and Project Development Office (PPDO) in the DPWTC.
Justification and Economic Analysis
44.       The Tondo Foreshore and Dagat-Dagatan components will improve
the health and living conditions of the Tondo Foreshore residents, stimulate
the creation by the private sector of approximately 800 jobs in the indus-
trial/commercial estate and create 200 jobs through the cottage industry loan
program. Approximately 12,000 man-years of direct employment, associated
with project construction activities, will also be created. The transport-
ation component would improve the efficiency of the existing road network,



- xiii -
through improvements in the capacity of key junctions and also through pro-
vision of important links in the circumferential-radial road network of the
city that would serve to divert port-related traffic away from the heavily
congested urban center. The provision of technical assistance to DPWTC for
the new Metropolitan Manila Commission (MMC) would assist the development of
the new Manila Government and help improve metropolitan-wide management and
cadastral information.
45.       The project would directly benefit the 180,000 persons now residing
in the Tondo Foreshore area, who are among the poorest families in Manila.
The current median family income in this Tondo area is about $576 a year
which, with an average family size of 6.6 persons, is a per capita income
of $87 a year.
46.       The benefits of the traffic improvement component would be more
widely distributed, and would also provide substantial benefits for low-*
income persons. The portion of the R-10 constructed under the project would
provide for more efficient distribution of port traffic, and would provide
access to the Dagat-Dagatan site.
47.       The measurement of economic benefits for the slum upgrading, sites
and services, and industrial estates components of the project is based upon
estimates of increases in property values brought about by the provision
of infrastructure and other services; and on this basis, the economic rate
of return for the residential component is 21 percent, and the economic rate
of return for the industrial/commercial development in the project area is
40 percent.
48.       The benefits arising from the major road components were considered
to be savings in road transport costs of all diverted traffic from their pre-
sent heavily congested routes in the Central Business District to the project
roads. The economic rate of return for the R-10 road is estimated to be 36
percent (between circumferential roads C-1 and C-2) and 45 percent (between
C-2 and the Dagat-Dagatan road). For the section of C-2 to be construc-
ted under the project, the economic rate of return is estimated to be 18
percent. Rates of return for the C-3 and the road in Dagat-Dagatan were not
calculated because the works are very small. The estimated weighted average
economic rate of return for the Tondo Foreshore, Dagat-Dagatan, and Major
Road components of the project is 27%.
Conclusions, Major Loan Conditions and Recommendations
49.       The project would be the first attempt to tackle some of the major
problems facing metropolitan Manila and, if successful, should demonstrate
the practicality of this approach for upgrading the standards of living of
the 3.2 million persons now estimated to be living at or below the minimum
subsistence level there and in other fast growing urban areas. It would also
help the Government to develop institutions and formulate policies and pro-
grams which deal efficiently with the problems of urban growth.



- xiv -
50.       During the course of project preparation, several issues were
addressed, the most important of which were:
(a) Land-Use. The original proposals for the Tondo Foreshore
area involved a low density development that would have
entailed demolition of most housing units and relocation
of up to some 70 percent of the Tondo residents. To reduce
the amount of relocation, the alignment of the R-10 was
shifted from a path that would cut through the center of
the area to an alignment along the port wall that minimizes
relocation, and still meets the present and anticipated access
needs of the port. The proposed density levels were also
increased.
(b) Design Standards. The standards of the core units and the
sizes of lots to be provided in Dagat-Dagatan were reduced,
and the use of self-help house construction was increased in
order to reduce costs and ensure affordability. In the
Tondo Foreshore, houses would be realigned along roads and
footpaths to improve circulation after consultation with the
residents of particular blocks to minimize social disruption.
(c) Land Tenure. Tenure in the Tondo area is a long-standing
political issue, the satisfactory resolution of which was
critical to the achievement of the project's social objectives
and the orderly implementation of the project. A Presidential
Decree has been signed recently, which now provides long-term
leases to residents with options to purchase after five years.
(d) Cost Recovery. Bank staff and the Government discussed the
question of cost recovery extensively during the early stages
of project preparation and the Government recognized that
effective cost recovery was essential given the very large
future investments necessary to meet growing urban needs.
The cost recovery formula described in paras 34-38 is the
result of these discussions and has the full support of the
Philippine Government.
51.       The major risks inherent in the project relate to the fact that
the NHA is newly created and inexperienced in the type of work proposed.
The project would require a high level of cooperation and coordination be-
tween the NHA and different agencies of the Government, as well as with the
residents of the Tondo area. It would also require a major commitment by
the Government in staff, financing and effort to ensure successful execution.
The Government is fully aware of the organizational efforts involved and has
agreed to take the necessary steps to ensure successful execution, since it
attaches high priority to the urban sector. Inter-agency coordination would
be insured through the Presidential Letter of Instruction (LOI) described
in para 29. The covenants relating to NHA are discussed in paras 29 and 30



- xv -
of this report. The risks associated with the project are considered reason-
able in light of the substantial benefits to the urban poor that will be
generated. Technical assistance and monitoring and evaluation arrangements
have been incorporated to assist management in the execution of this project
and design of future projects. In addition, supervision, at least in the
initial stages of project implementation, would require a heavy commitment
of the Bank's staff time.






PHILIPPINES
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. PROJECT COMPONENTS, COSTS AND FINANCING
A. The Project
1.01      The project aims to assist the Government in starting a process
which will begin to address the dominant urban problems facing Manila, es-
pecially those of shelter, environmental sanitation and transport. It also
seeks to demonstrate that upgrading in situ is a satisfactory approach to
slum improvement in contrast to resettlement, which has hitherto been the
policy adopted by the Government. The project would be the first compre-
hensive slum upgrading effort of the Philippine Government, and the first
upgrading project of the newly-created National Housing Authority (NHA).
In the course of the four-year project implementation period, the NHA is
expected to significantly increase its capacity to plan and implement similar
upgrading and sites and services projects in other parts of Manila and in
other cities of the Philippines. The project also seeks to shift transport
investment towards projects involving a relatively low capital input, i.e.
those projects which increase the efficiency of existing infrastructure
through traffic engineering and management methods. Technical assistance
provided under the project would support project execution; metropolitan-
wide fiscal administration; a metropolitan area land-use and transport study;
and the preparation of feasibility studies for similar projects ln other
parts of Manila and in other cities. The Government also requested that a
package of technical assistance supporting national transportation planning
also be included in the project. Project investments will include:
(a) upgrading the Tondo Foreshore, including an outfall
sewer from the Tondo Sewage Pumping Station;
(b) provision of sites and services units on vacant
land within the Tondo Foreshore and development
of the first phase of a new low-income residential
area at Dagat-Dagatan;
(c) support for community facilities and health and
education programs;
(d) employment promotion programs in Tondo and Dagat-
Dagatan;
(e) construction of major road links along the north shore;
(f) provision of traffic improvements in the metropolitan
area; and
(g) technical assistance.



- 2-
Upgrading the Tondo Foreshore
1.02      The site selected by the Government for upgrading is the Tondo
Foreshore (see map 11888), which is Manila's largest slum and a site that ex-
hibits most of the problems, challenges and opportunities posed by poor sani-
tary conditions and low incomes in dense urban areas of the Philippines.
1.03      The upgrading of the Tondo Foreshore will consist of the provision
of basic urban services, including water supply, sewerage, surface-water
drainage, roads, footpaths, street lighting and community facilities. In
addition, programs promoting economic development and community health in
the area will be provided. Credit facilities for materials loans will be
available so that families with sufficient income can improve over time the
structures in which they live.
1.04      Individual water and sewer services will be supplied to almost
every structure. The inherent difficulties in undertaking work of this kind
are considerable: upgrading of a built-up area is a slow tedious process
requiring analysis on a block-by-block basis, with each cluster of buildings
treated individually, and a specific design worked out with the people to be
served. Installation of the services in narrow meandering alleyways will be
slow and difficult. In some cases, a number of properties will have to share
a single water connection or sewer hook-up, to reduce the cost of the system
and minimize structural disturbance. Cost estimates for tertiary infrastruc-
ture are based on designs in three pilot areas that are considered repre-
sentative of the whole.
1.05      Approximately $6 million of minor work will be undertaken by
very small contractors, including surface-water drainage, internal plumbing,
minor roads and footways. In order to do this in an efficient manner,
the Authority proposes to purchase items of civil engineering equipment 1/
and make this available to the contractors on a lease or hire basis.
1.06      Installation of facilities would be preceded by an extensive com-
munity relations program, to consult with residents and to promote under-
standing of upgrading. Residents will participate on a barangay-by-barangay
basis in decisions concerning final layout of tertiary infrastructure, and
any movement of structures that might be required.
Sewage Outfall
1.07      The present disposal of sewage from metropolitan Manila is
constrained by the extremely bad condition of the existing 42" outfall sewer
1/   Comprising:  Ten water pumps with hose and accessories; ten three-ton
chain blocks; one hydraulic trench excavator; one ten-ton pneumatic-
type road roller; one heavy-duty grader; one three-quarter cu yd
traxcavator; three eight-ton trucks; two one-ton forklift; two one-
ton service pickups; ten three-hundred-gallon trailer-mounted water
trucks; and ten one-and-one-half-ton pickup trucks.



- 3 -
from the Tondo Sewage Pumping Station. With the introduction of an addi-
tional loading of sewage from the Tondo Foreshore, the existing outfall
will prove entirely inadequate. Since these conditions cannot be improved
simply by installation of additional pumping units, it is necessary to con-
struct an interim outfall to discharge into the Pasig River, avoiding the
International Port and discharging at a point not closer to the shoreline
than the present outfall.
1.08      This will enable the present pumping chamber, with one pump motor
enlarged, and its mechanical electrical equipment overhauled to not only
take care of the Tondo Foreshore input but, also, to improve the existing
conditions for the sewage flows from Greater Manila until such time as the
master plan for sewage disposal can be executed.
Sites and Services
1.09      The 3,000 new residential units provided under the project include
about 1,000 plots to be located in open spaces and reclaimed land within the
Tondo Foreshore, and about 2,000 plots to be built at Dagat-Dagatan. Dagat-
Dagatan is a large 367 ha site of currently disused, privately-owned fish
ponds located about 4 km north of Tondo (see map 11888). Land acquisition
and reclamation at the site have already begun. At full development, the
Dagat-Dagatan site is expected to provide improved shelter and services for a
population of approximately 260,000 persons. In Phase I, approximately 40 ha
will be developed. The first stage development, however, at Dagat-Dagatan
has been deliberately kept to a minimum because the overall development plans
together with the design of the estero improvement have not been completed.
The project includes technical assistance in land-use planning, and hydraulic
engineering to analyze and design a satisfactory solution to the estero and
river flows.
1.10      Core Units.  All new lots will be provided with individual water,
sewerage and electricity connections. Street lighting will be installed
along major access roads and at main circulation points. Lot sizes will vary,
ranging from less than 35 sq m to 240 sq m, with the majority of lots approxi-
mately 48 sq m in size. At a density of over 100 units per ha, these lots
are smaller than in any previous Bank project, reflecting the high value of
land in the project areas and the low-income levels of beneficiaries.
1.11      Lots will be provided with service connections, basic plumbing
fixtures and a party wall along the service core, concrete slab and a soil
cement floor 1/ area. Structures will be completed by families, using
existing houses brought from the Tondo Foreshore, or by utilizing prepared
packages designed to complete the houses in incremental stages. These pre-
engineered packages will be financed through materials loans and will be
1/   Providing it can be demonstrated that the reclaimed land fill can be
satisfactorily stabilized with a cement additive.



- 4 -
provided up to a maximum of P 3,000; they will be available to those families
who can afford them. Technical assistance will be provided by the imple-
menting agency's architects and tradesmen.
1.12      Layouts.  The layouts for the new sites and services developments
(see map 11890) in Tondo and Dagat-Dagatan provide for lots to be grouped
into clusters around small open spaces, which keep vehicle penetration to a
minimum. A central road will pass through the Dagat-Dagatan site and will
serve as a bus route and main artery. The site will also have approximately
900 lineal meters of estero frontage, which will allow the fishermen at Dulo
Puting Bato (a narrow slip of land abutting the International Port) and those
resettled from the Fisherman's Channel at Tondo to have riparian frontage. A
grid of pedestrian walkways provides access to each lot and contains sanitary
sewerage pipes and stormwater drainage channels.
Off-Site Infrastructure
1.13      The existing Tondo Sewage Pumping Station will be upgraded and a new
outfall provided. Temporary (above ground) water supply mains and stabiliza-
tion ponds will be constructed to serve Dagat-Dagatan. Flood control designs
and land-use planning for the entire Dagat-Dagatan area are not complete, but
designs for the first-stage development financed under this project have been
done in such a way that any work undertaken will not compromise long-term
engineering decisions.
Community Facilities and Health Education Programs
1.14      Living conditions in the densely settled Tondo Foreshore are charac-
terized by extremely high levels of infant mortality, malnutrition and communi-
cable diseases. Improved sanitation will alleviate some of these conditions
which are increasing at an alarming rate. In addition to the provision of
utilities, the project includes the following preventive health programs:
(a) the training of over 300 volunteer medics and community
health workers (BVMs);
(b) identification and treatment of malnourished children;
(c) infant food preparation;
(d) nutrition education;
(e) immunization;
(f) deworming;
(g) vermin and rodent control;
(h) Vitamin A and iron supplement; and
(i) family planning.



- 5 -
The details of these public health and nutrition programs are ouitlined in
paras 3.21 to 3.26. They will be closely monitored and evaluated, using on-
going surveys as a baseline.
1.15      The project aims to improve educational facilities by building
119 primary school classrooms at Tondo, 45 primary school classrooms at Dagat-
Dagatan and a new 49-room high school at Tondo. The primary schools will
work on a double-shift basis and the high school on a three-shift basis.
Existing municipal health centers and Government/Tulangan centers (social
welfare and health centers) will be upgraded, and two new health centers with
a 25-bed capacity will be constructed in Tondo and Dagat-Dagatan. Playgrounds
and playlots will also be provided. Twenty-five barangay (multi-purpose)
community centers will be provided in the Tondo Foreshore, and three centers
will be built at Dagat-Dagatan. The centers will be used for nurseries and
mothercraft classes in the morning, vocational training in the afternoon and
general meetings at night. They will consist of multi-purpose areas, which
would include a barangay meeting center, playlot and, for some, a basketball
court. Social workers and guidance counsellors will use those centers as
their base of operation. The barangay councils will also avail themselves
of the building's facilities. The concerned ministries, municipalities and
others have agreed to equip and staff the facilities adequately, and inter-
agency agreements setting out the extent, range and depth of the cooperation
required have been drafted.
Resettlement of Families
1.16      The resettlement of families affected by the project will need
careful handling. Prior to moving, discussions will be held between the
family and technical officers of the project unit of NHA to ascertain the
portion of the existing structure to be preserved and the method of demolition
to be adopted (which will facilitate subsequent re-erections). Adequate
notice to move will formally be given, and assistance will be available to
enable affected residents to move and re-erect their shelters at the new sites
as speedily and efficiently as possible. Social workers, barangay leaders,
church groups and others will also assist.
Employment Promotion
1.17      To alleviate the high level of poverty that has persisted in the
Tondo area, the Government has given high priority to employment promotion.
The principal means by which the project addresses employment promotion are
through the development of 9.2 ha of new industrial property in the project
area and through programs supporting very small businesses and c:ottage in-
dustries. In addition, substantial skills training will be undertaken to
improve the effectiveness of the local labor in construction work and in
self-help construction. This should have spillover effects in the estab-
lishment of small contracting firms. Additional classrooms will be pro-
vided to a successful vocational training center in Tondo.



-6-
1.18      Industrial/Commercial Estates.  Approximately 5.7 ha of vacant and
reclaimed land in the Tondo Foreshore will be developed into industrial and
commercial estate property. In Dagat-Dagatan 3.5 ha will be newly developed
for industrial uses, and another 2 ha will be developed for mixed commercial/
residential use. This represents the first stage of a substantially larger
industrial estate proposed for Dagal:-Dagatan. In selecting among applicants
for the sites, preference will be gi'ven to labor-intensive businesses.
1.19      Small-Scale Business Promotion.  This component aims at assisting
very small businesses and cottage industries found in the project areas.  It
is an experimental effort that includes both technical/managerial services
and credit facilities for small businesses. The technical services will be
provided through the Medium and Small-Industry Coordinated Acti-on Program
(MASICAP) of the Department of Industry. Several three-person MASICAP teams
will be established in the Tondo ancd Dagat-Dagatan areas, composed of persons
with accounting and business training. These teams will identify projects
and proponents; assist in preparation of feasibility studies; review all
aspects of projects including the technical approach, marketing, sources
of supply and financial viability; identify further professional assistance,
training or other preparation required to improve prospects for project suc-
cess; establish liaison with other Government and private agencies providing
assistance; assist in loan applications; and advise as necessary during imple-
mentation and supervision. Special courses in business management and ele-
mentary accounting and record keeping will be offered under the auspices
of NRA, and an existing skills training center in Tondo will be augmented.
1.20      A line of credit in the amount of P 2.5 million will be provided
for this purpose to NHA. NlA would enter into an agreement with the Devel-
opment Bank of the Philippines (DBP) to administer this component for sub-
projects involving manufacturing or having a substantial capital content; and
at NHA's option, either the Philippine National Bank (PNB) or the Philippine
Business for Social Progress (PBSP) for subprojects of a purely commercial
nature. Types of businesses in the area that would be supported include
general manufacturing of furniture, household implements and simple tools;
woodcraft and shelicraft, machine shops and repair shops and others. The
package is primarily designed to fill a gap in financing for small businesses
and cottage industries whose assets are less than P 150,000 ($20,000).
While funds for small businesses are nominally available, Banks have tended
to channel funds to larger, more secure investments. Under the proposed
Tondo project, the minimum-size loan would be P 400 ($53), and the average
is expected to be about P 15,000 ($2,000). The terms and conditions of
the small-business loans are provided in paras 3.37 to 3.48.
Major Roads
1.21      The major roads constructed under the project provide necessary
access to one of the project sites and are central links in Manila's radial,



-7 -
circumferential system. The 5.4 km of R-10 serves both as a port access road
and diversion road; it will also assist to open up the Dagat-Dagatan site and
offer commercial opportunities in selected areas. The constructiLon of C-2
(1.4 km), which has long been part of the development plan for the Tondo
Foreshore, should have a particularly beneficial effect in providling a way
for heavy port traffic to avoid the major shopping center at DiviLsoria. C-2,
between Estero de Vitas and Governor Forbes Road, will in part be provided
by Tayuman, an existing four-lane concrete road. The portions of- C-3 (0.3 km)
and the Dagat-Dagatan spine road (0.4 km) to be built under this project
are short two-lane roads from the R-10, to give access to the new development
at Dagat-Dagatan. These roads will not be extended eastwards, and no bridges
will be constructed along C-3 or the spine road, until the pattern of future
development at Dagat-Dagatan (in particular, the alignment of improved and
widened drainage channels) has been decided. Two bridges over the Estero de
Vitas will be included in the project, one at Rodriguez Street to replace the
existing narrow bailey bridge and the other at Velasquez Street to replace
the bridge damaged during the Second World War. As far as possible, existing
abutments will be retained but some realignment may be undertaken at the
Rodriguez Street crossing to shorten the span.
Traffic Improvements
1.22       The traffic improvement component of the project seeks to improve
traffic and transport services in metro Manila by construction of low-cost
infrastructure improvements and improvements in traffic management and en-
gineering.
1.23      Junction Improvements.  The main hindrance to traffic movement in
Manila occurs at street junctions. Traffic flow could be considerably
improved by achieving a better balance between the performance of these
junctions and the road network. The project provides:
(a)  Signalization - 88 sets of signals (50 existing and 38
new) close to or within the area circumscribed by C-2
will be linked (see map 11891). The operational capa-
city of police to deal with traffic control will be
assisted through the provision of mobile radios and
equipment for a traffic monitoring center.
(b)  Geometric Improvements - The objective of geometric
improvements, like signal improvements, is to improve
the operation of junctions, which currently limit the
performance of the road network as a whole. Geometric
improvements will be made to key junctions which will
partly overlap with junctions for which (see map 11891)
linked signals are to be provided. In designing geo-
metric improvements, considerable importance will be
given to movement of pedestrians along and across
roads.



- 8 -
1.24      Road Markings.  Adequate road markings are almost non-existent.
Those that have been provided are generally worn out due to a combination
of climatic factors and low-quality cold paint. New markings utilizing
thermo plastic material will be provided within 50 m of 200 junctions all
within the boundary of the C-4 and for introducing 200 crosswalks in mid-
block positions.
1.25      Footpaths and Bus Shelters.  Footpaths are grossly inadequate,
often forcing persons to use motorized transport, even for relatively short
distances, because there is no practical route by which to walk. There is
also underprovision of bus shelters. Over 20 km of footways will be improved
or provided, and over 150 bus shelters will be installed.
1.26      Priority Lanes for Buses and Jeepneys.  As a means of improving
the capacity of the existing road network to carry increased volume of pas-
sengers, the project also will include over 20 km of exclusive and priority
lanes for buses and jeepneys (see map 11891). Technical assistance, pro-
vided under the project, will assist the Government in identifying additional
streets suitable for reservation for public vehicles, and in conducting
studies of further measures designed to restrain the uneconomic use of pri-
vate vehicles, including such means as increased parking charges and area
road pricing.
1.27      Technical Assistance.  The project includes technical assistance
for (i) land use/transportation planning to develop policies and programs
for long-term transport development, short-term proposals to effect imme-
diate improvements, and the administrative and financial framework for policy
implementation; (ii) traffic engineering, including implementation and signal
management; and (iii) training in traffic management.
Technical Assistance in National Transportation Planning
1.28      A Bank Transportation Sector Mission visited the Philippines in
June 1975 and reviewed the Government's transportation investment program
for 1976-79 and the planning capability of transport sector agencies. In-
vestment in transportation has expanded rapidly in recent years, and the Gov-
ernment has made considerable progress in improving the planning and imple-
mentation capacity of transport sector agencies. However, further improve-
ments are necessary particularly in view of the large transport sector
investments proposed in the Government's Four-Year Investment Program,
1976-79, amounting to P 11.2 billion ($1.5 billion), and which is largely
based on priorities established by the Philippine Transport Survey conducted
in 1969-70 with the assistance of consultants financed by the United Nations
Development Programme. The Bank sector mission found that revisions in the
Program would be necessary to ensure that transport sector investments were
planned on a sound economic basis, and that better means were developed for
determining priorities both between and within transport modes. Recognizing
this need, the Government has decided to implement only the 1976 program



-9-
and is now in the process of up-dating the program for 1977-80. But Gov-
ernment needs substantial technical assistance to complete this task. There
is also an urgent need to upgrade staff capabilities in various Government
agencies, so that in the future they can carry out more effective planning
on a continuing basis. The Government has, therefore, requested the Bank to
finance technical assistance needed to:
(a) prepare a transportation investment plan for the period
1977-80 and a national transport system study; and
(b) help strengthen the various public transportation agencies.
B. Cost Estimates
1.29      Total project costs (see Tables I-1 and T-2), including reclamation
at Dagat-Dagatan and acquisition of the former DPH compound in the Tondo
Foreshore, are estimated at @ 487.82 million ($65.03 million), of which
approximately 49% is for foreign exchange. Estimates are based on preliminary
engineering. Cost estimates for the tertiary infrastructure to be provided
under the upgrading component, are based on designs in three pilot areas
that are considered representative of the whole. Because of the nature of
this work, more reliable estimates can only be determined as work proceeds.
Physical contingencies for tertiary infrastructure, therefore, have been
increased to 25%. Trial holes, dug along the alignment of the Tondo inter-
ceptor sewer, indicate that considerable difficulty may be experienced with
groundwater, and 56% contingencies have been provisionally allocated to this
component. The design of the interceptor, which remains to be finalized, may
include one or more pumping stations resulting in increased running costs
with lower capital costs. An engineering economy study will establish the
optimal solution. After making allowances for these contingencies, the over-
all physical contingencies amount to 10.3%. Price contingencies are estimated
at 10% per year, or an overall average of 26% of base costs.



-10-
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table I-1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
P (millions)                   $ (millions)           % of Foreign
Local    Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign     Total     Component
A. Tondo Foreshore
Land, including Survey         10.32     1.36      11.68       1.38      0.18        1.56         11
Civil Works                    52.09    40.91      93.00       6.94      5.46       12.40         44
Community Facilities           13.09    10.29      23.38       1.75       1.37       3.12         44
Housing Materials Loan
and Core Units                  7.69     2.56      10.25       1.02       0.34       1.36         21
anall-Business Loans            1.25     1.25       2.50       0.17      0.16       0.33          50
Experimental Area               1.78     1.39       3.17       0.23       0.19       o.42         44
Sub-total                      86.22    57.76    1243.98      11..49     7.70      19.19          40
B.  Dagat-Dagatan
Land and Reclamation            5.06     9.40      14.46       0.67      1.25        1.92         65
and Survey
Civil Works                     8.25     6.48      14.73       1.10      o.86        1.96         44
Community Facilities            3.73     2.48       6.21       0.50       0.33       0.83         40
Housing Materials Loan
and Core Units                  7.44     2.48       9.92       0.99      0.33        1.32         25
Relocation                      0.11     o.16       0.27       0.02       0.02       0.04         59
Sub-total                      24.59    21.00      45.59       3.28      2.79       6.07          46
C.  Sewage Outfall                      3.20     4.80       8.oo       0.43       0.64       1.07         60
D. Major Roads and Bridge.s
Land                           27.83     -         27.83       3.71       -          3.71          C
Highway Construction, R-10,
C-2, C-3 and Spine Road        10.58    15.88      26.46       1.41       2.12       3.53         60
Steel Sheet Piling              6.29     9.44      15.73       0.84      1.26        2.10         6c
Bridges over Estero de
Vitas                           4.70    7.04       1174       0.63       0.94       1.57         60
Sub-total                      49.40    32.36      81.76       6.59      4.32      10.91          40
E.  Traffic Improvement                12.56    23.32      35.88       1.67       3.11       4.78         65
F.  Technical Assistance                8.67    34.69      43.36       1.16       4.62       5.78         80
Total (A,B,C,D,E and F)       184.64   173.93     358.57      24.62     23.18       47.80         49
Physical Contingencies             18.85    18.12      36.97       2.51       2.42       4.93         49
Price Escalation                   47.06    45.22      92.28       6.27       6.03      12.30         49
GRAND TOTAL                       250.55   237.27     487.82      33.40      31.63      65.03         49
April 1 976



-11-
MANILA URBAN DESVEWHLNT PROJECT
Table I-2: DETAILFD COST ESTIMATES
(p millions)
Base          Physical             Price
>G,zt       Contingencies     Contingencies      Total
A. Tondo Foreshore
Land and Reclamation
Land                                                 9.08
Reclamation (Fishenrman's Channel)                   1.82            0.18
Surveys                                              0.78            0.08
Sub-Total                                              11.68            0.26               O.93          12.87
Civil Works
Surface-Water Drainage
Primary and Secondary                           9.71           0.76
Tertiary                                        5.10            0.70
Water Supply
Secondary                                       5.54            0.48
Tertiary                                        1.36            0.29
Service Connections                             3.16            0.47
House Systems                                   2.70            0.30
Meters                                          2.24            0.22
Sewerage
Interceptor Sewer and Pumping Station           8.44            4.72L
Laterals                                        7.39            o.64
Tertiary                                        5.73            1.25
Connections                                     4.39           0.38
House Systems                                   9.51            o.95
Additional Pump, Tondo Pumping Station          1.17            0.03
Internal Roads and Footways                         16.57            0.90
Pootways between Properties                          6.59            0.90
Purchase of Civil Engineering Plant                  2.77            0.28
Electricity and Street Lighting                      0.63            0.06
Sub-Total                                              93.00           13.33              27.02         133.35
Community Facilities
Primary Schools (new)                          11.42           1.20
Primary Schools (upgrade)                       0.29           0-03
High School                                     5.00           0.60
Health Centers (new)                            1.64           0.16
Health Centers (upgrade)                        0.69            0.07
Barangay and Recreational Centers (Type A)      0.23            0.02
Barangay and Recreational Centers (Type B)      0.42            0.04
Community Training Center                       0.11            0.01
Conmmunity Action Programs                      3.58            0.36
Sub-Total                                             23.38            2.49               8.58          34.45
Housing Materials Loan and Core Units
Housing Materials Loan                          9.5             0. 95
525 Core Units (excluding experimental area)   0.75             0.08
Sub-Total                                             10.25            1.03               3-33          14.61
Small-Business-Loans                                   2.50            0.00               o.79           3.29
Experimental Area (572 units)
Drainage                                        0.43            0.04
Water Supply                                    0.45            0.10
Sewerage                                        0.68           0.15
Roads                                           0.79           0.11
Core Units                                      0.82            o.16
Sub-Total                                              3.17            o.56                0.52          4.25
Total Tondo Foreshore                                143.s9          1:7.67               41.17        202.82
/1 High contingency reflects uncertainty in ground conditions.



-12-
MANILA tRBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table I-2: IETAILED COST ESTIMATES (continued)
(P millions)
Base        Physical          Price
Cost      Contingencies   Contingencies       Total
B. Dagat-Dagatan
Land Reclamation
Land                                                1.27
Reclamation                                        12.95            1.30
Surveys                                             0.24            0.02
Sub-total                                            14.46            1.32           1.01          16.79
Civil Works
Surface-Water Drainage                              1.48            0.15
Water Supply
Secondary                                         3.47            0.34
Service Connection                                0.31            0.03
Sewerage
Interceptor                                       1.17            0.10
Laterials                                         1.63            0.16
Service Connections                               0.50            0.o4
Stabilization Ponds                               1.50            0.15
Internal Roads                                      4.51            c.60
Electricity and Street Lighting                     0.16            0.01
Sub-total                                            14.73            1.58           2.29          18.60
Community Facilities
Primary Schools                                     4-.44            - .44
Health Center                                       1.63            0.16
Barangay and Recreation Center (Type A)             0.14            0.01
Sub-total                                             6-24            Ok4            1--3C          841-2
Housing Materials Loan and Core Units
Housing Materials Loan                              6.oo            o.60
Core Units                                          3.92            0.75 /1
Sub-total                                             9.92            1.35
2.70          14.27
Relocation                                            0.27            0.03
Total Dagat-Dagatan                                  45.59            4.89           7.30          57.78
C.  Sewer Outfall                                           8.0             1.00           2.30           11.30
D. Major Roads and Bridges
Land Acquisition
R-1 0                                              18.20            -
C-2                                                 7.02            -
C-3                                                 2.31            -
Bridges                                             0.30            -
Sub-total                                            27.83            -
Civil Works
R-10                                               20.81            2.08
G-2                                                 3.61            0.36
C-3 and Spine Road /2                               2.04            0.20
Sub-total                                             26.46            2.65
River Training Work (Sheet Piling)                    15.73            1.67
Two Bridges over Estero de Vitas                      11.74            1.17
Total Major Roads and Bridges                         81.76            5.49          15.20          102.45
/1  Increased contingency reflects some uncertainty in actual nuimber of units to be provided.
/2 From R-10 to North Bay Boulevard.



-13-
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table I-2: IETAILED COST ESTIMATES (continued)
(P millions)
Base        Physical           Price
Cost      Contingencies    Contingencies       Total
E.  Traffic Improvenent
Signal Junctions                                 14.00         1.39
Closed-Circuit Television                         1.00         0.10
Mobile Radios                                     2.00         0.20
Geometric Improvements                            5.00         0.50
Traffic Signs, etc.                               2.50         0.25
Bus and Jeepney Lanes                             0.50         0.05
Footpaths and Bus Shelters                       10.00         1.00
Monitoring                                        0.88         0.09
Total Traffic Improvement                          35.88         3.58              12.56          52.02
F. Technical Assistance
To NHA
Short-Term Consultants
Engineering Services
Financial Services
Feasibility Studies
(a) Dagat-Dagatan
(b) Metro Manila
Monitoring
10.65
To IPH
Major Roads
Traffic Engineering and Management
17.14
To MWSS
Short-Term Consultants
Sewer Outfall
0.28
To DPWTC
Land Use and Transportation
Financial Training
Cadastral Sarveys
National Transportation Planning
15.29
Total Technical Assistance                       43.36                18.09                     61.45
A.  Tondo Foreshore                               143.98        17.67              41.17         202.82
B.  Dagat-Datagan                                  45.59         4.89               7.30          57.78
C.  Sewer Outfall                                   8.00         1.00               2.30          11.30
D . Major Roads                                    81.76         5.49              15.20         102.45
E.  Traffic Improvement                            35.88         3.58              12.56          52.02
F.  Technical Assistance                           43.36         4.34              13.75          61.45
GRAND TOTAL                                       3a8.          36.97              92.28         487.82
April 1976



- 14 -
Cost of Utility Services
1.30      Not all the servicing costs are for residential areas.  Allocating
costs on an area basis, the following servicing costs are associated with
the net residential, industrial and commercial areas:/a
Tondo Upgrading and Serviced Lots
Total
Gross /a          Cost Per Gross   Total Resi-        Industrial and
Cost                 Hectare      dential Cost /b  Commercial Cost
P (millions) $   P   (OOOs)   $    P (millions) $   P (millions) $
Surface-
Water
Drainage    20.3         2.7   123.8       16.5   15.7         2.1    4.6        0.6
Water
Supply       20.9        2.8   127.5       17.0   16.1         2.2    4.8        0.6
Sewerage    55.7         7.4   339.0       45.2   42.9         5.7   12.8        1.7
Roads and
Footways    31.2 /c    4.2   190.0         25.3   24.0         3.2    7.2        1.0
Electri-
city and
Street
Lighting      0.9        0.1     5.2        0.7    0.7         0.1    0.2        0.0
Total    129.0       17.2   785.5       104.7   99.4        13.3   29.6        3.9
/a   Total development costs, including physical and price contingencies prior
to reduction in financial charges to residential beneficiaries.
/b   Gross area 164.3 ha; net residential 58.61 ha; net industrial and commer-
cial 16.59 ha; the open spaces, institutional plots and circulation
areas have not been allocated development costs.
/c   The provision of utility and other infrastructure services will disturb
the existing roads and footways to such an extent that they will require
complete reconstruction, and the estimates allow for this.



- 15 -
1.31      In order to appreciate the significance of these costs, an analysis
breaking down the net residential servicing costs on a per capita, per hec-
tare and per structure/plot basis has been done, and the details are given
in the following table:
Tondo Upgrading and Serviced Lots
Total                                Cost /a
Residential         Cost Per Net      Per Structure        Cost /b
Cost             Residential Ha       or Plot          Per Capita
P (millions) $      P   (oOOs)   $    p              $    p          $
Surface-
Water
Drainage    15.7        2.1        282.3    37.6    1,039      138      98    13.1
Water
Supply      16.1        2.2        289.5    38.6    1,065      142    101    13.4
Sewerage    42.9        5.7        771.4   102.8    2,837      378    268    35.8
Roads and
Footways    24.0        3.2        431.6    57.5    1,587      211    150    20.0
Electri-
city and
Street
Lighting     0.9        0.1         16.1     2.1        60       8       6     0.8
Total     99.4       13.3      1,790.9   238.6    6,588      877    623    83.1
/a   Total families in study area                           27,520
less families displaced in Phase 1                      2,850
24,640
Add families settled in Tondo                           1,098
25,738
less families still in the International Port area   1,849
families remaining in upgraded area                    23,889
Average families per structure 1.58, the total number of structures
remaining in the upgraded area is 15,119.
/b   Approximately 160,000.



- 16 -
1.32      The estimated cost of providing infrastructure at Dagat-Dagatan
on a similar basis is:
Dagat-Dagatan Site and Services
Total                                      Cost for
Development /a            Cost for /b         Industrial
Cost                 Residential          and Commercial
P (millions) $         P (millions) $        P (millions) $
Surface-Water        1.9         0.25        1.3        0.17       0.6        0.08
Drainage
Water Supply         3.3         0.44        2.2        0.24       1.1        0.15
Sewerage             4.1         0.55        3.4        0.45       1.7        0.23
Roads and
Footways           5.8         0.77        3.8        0.51       2.0        0.27
Electricity          0.2         0.03        0.1        0.01       0.1        0.01
Total          15.3         2.04       10.8        1.43       5.5       0.74
/a   Total costs including physical and price contingencies prior to re-
duction in financial charges to residential beneficiaries, offsite
water supply amounting to P 1.13 million, and 50% of the cost of
stabilization ponds not included since these share a larger population.
/b   Net residential area after deducting open spaces, institutional plots
and circulation areas is 10.8 ha, and the net industrial/commercial is
5.5 ha including 2.0 ha mixed commercial property.



- 17 -
1.33      The net residential costs for Dagat-Dagatan on a per capita, per
hectare and per structure basis is as follows:
Dagat-Dagatan Serviced Lots
Total            Cost Per         Cost Per /a
Residential       Residential         Structure           Cost /b
Cost               Ha              or Plot           Per Capita
P (millions) $   P   (OO0s)  $    P (millions) $    P               $
Surface-Water
Drainage        1.3      0.17     120      16.0       650      86.7    62.5      8.3
Water Supply    2.2       0.29     204      27.2    1,100    146.9   105.8    14.1
Sewerage         3.4      0.45     315      42.0    1,700    226.7   163.5    21.8
Roads and
Footways        3.8      0.51     352      46.9    1,900    253.3   182.7    24.4
Electricity
and Street
Lighting        0.1      0.01        9      1.2        50       6.7     4.8      0.6
Total      10.8     1.43   1,000    133.3    5,400    720.1   519.3    69.2
/a   The total number of lots at Dagat-Dagatan is 2,000.
/b   Assumes a density of 10.4 persons per structure, i.e. a density which
exists in the existing structures to be moved.
Other Costs of Development on the Plot
1.34      The estimated cost of providing a basic sanitary core is P 2,900 1/;
to this can be added the 4 optional building materials packages available to
complete the first phase, i.e. a further P 3,200. On average, the cost of a
fully completed lot at Tondo and Dagat-Dagatan is as follows:
1/   Includes water meter and physical and price contingencies.



- 18 -
Total On-Plot Development Costs-
Tondo                     Dagat-Dagatan
p            $              1             $
Services per Plot        6,588          878           5,400 /b       720
Sanitary Core              -            -             2,900          387
Land, Reclamation        1,076 /c       143           8,395        1,119
Sub-Total            7,664        1,021           16,695        2,226
Community Facilities   2,279            304           4,060          541
/a   Includes all costs and physical and price contingencies except
those noted in footnotes. /b and /c
/b   Offsite water supply (P 1.13 million) and 50% of cost of stabili-
zation ponds (P 2.1 million) not allocated, since these serve a
larger population.
/c   One third of the cost of reclaiming the Fisherman's Channel is al-
located to the cost of the C-2 roadway. Includes cost of experi-
mental area.
Cost of Major Roads
1.35      Price escalation has been added to land acquisition and relocation
in this component, because many private interests are affected, and some of
the land has not yet been acquired. The portion of R-10 between C-1 and C-2,
a length of approximately 2.4 km, will be constructed to dual-carriageway
standards. R-10 between C-2 and the Dagat-Dagatan spine road, approximately
3 km in length, will be built as a two-lane road. This length includes two
bridges over the Estero de Vitas (span 60 m) and the Marala River (span 100 m).
1.36      The estimated cost of the R-10 over the full 5.4 km, including
land acquisition, bridges, sandpiles, reclamation and fill (the road passes
over what is currently the sea), is P 63.43 million ($8.45 million), or
P 11.75 million per km ($1.57 million per km). Excluding land acquisition
and bridges, the cost is P 26.76 million, or P 4.95 million per km ($0.66 million
per km).



- 19 -
1.37      The new portion of the C-2 is 1.4 km long.  Land acquisition and
road works for a two-lane road are estimated to cost p 12.96 million
($1.7 million), or P 9.3 million per km ($1.2 million per km).  This estimate
excludes reclamation in the Fisherman's Channel and sheet piling the banks of
Estero de Vitas (approximately 600 m), where the road and estero are in close
proximity. A bridge (span 40 m) will also be required where the road crosses
the estero.
1.38      Five new signal-controlled junctions are also included in the cost
of the above roads at an estimated price of p 225,000 (US$30,000) per junction.
C. Financing
1.39      The proposed Bank support for this project would consist of a Third
Window Loan of $10 million and a Bank loan of $22 million, for a total amount
of $32 million. The loans would be made to the Government and would finance
the foreign exchange costs. Table I-3 shows the project financing plan. Of
the balance of $33.03 million, the NHA would finance $19.17 million, the MWSS
$0.26 million and the Government $13.60 million. The Bank loan would be for
a term of 22 years, including a grace period of 5 years at the standard Bank
interest rate. The Third Window Loan would be made on standard Third Window
Loan terms of 25 years, including 7 years of grace, and at an interest rate of
4% per annum less than the interest rate on the Bank loan.
1.40      Of the total proceeds of the loans, $17.56 million would be relent
to the NRA under a subsidiary loan agreement on the same terms as those of
the Bank loan to help finance the Tondo Foreshore, Dagat-Dagatan, technical
assistance to NHA, and lines of credit for house materials and cottage in-
dustry; $1.3 million would be relent to MIWSS under a subsidiary loan agree-
ment on the same terms as those of the Bank loan to help finance the sewage
outfall and the Tondo Pumping Station; $10.85 million would be allocated to
the DPH for construction of the major roads and for the implementation of the
traffic engineering component; and $2.27 million would be allocated to DPWTC
to finance the land-use transportation study, the national transportation
planning assistance, and the fiscal base, training, and program of cadastral
surveys that DPWTC is administering for the Metropolitan Manila 'Government.
For the building materials loans ($2.9 million), NRA would enter into an
agreement with DBP, and for the small business loans ($0.44 million) with
DBP and at NHA's option with PNB or PBSP to administer the loans. The on-
lending institutions would receive a 3% spread on funds and provide loans
to ultimate borrowers at a 12% interest rate. For small business loans, a
special one-time fee of 2% would also be charged and retained by NHA, who
would share the risk of default.



- 2C-
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROUECT
Table I-3:  PROJECT FINANCING PL-AN
(P millions)
Project Component              Estimated                Source of Funds
Cost      NHA     MWSS              IBRD
Slum Upgrading
Land Purchase                    9.08      9.08
Civil Works and                 177.70    88.85                     88.85    50
Community Facilities
Materials and                    16.04     6.42                      9.62    60
Business Loans
Sewer Outfall                       11.30      -      1.88              9.42    83
Sites and Services
Land and Reclamation             16.79    16.79
Civil Works and                  32.59    16.30                     16.29    50
Community Facilities
Materials Loans and Bridges       8.4,0    3.36                      5.04    60
Major Roads
Land                             27.83                     27.83
Civil Works                      74.62                   L44.82   29.80      40
Traffic Improvement                 52.02                     20.19   31.83     61
Technical Assistance                6-L.45    3.01    0.08    9.21   49.15      80
Total                              487.82   143.81    1.96  102.05  240.00
April 1976



- 21 -
II. BORROWING AND EXECUTING AGENCIES
2.01      The proposed loan would be made to the Government of thLe Philippines
(GOP), which would relend the proceeds to the National Housing Authority (NHA)
and the Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage System (MWSS), The Government
would allocate the balane to the Department of Public Highways (DPH), the
Department of Public Works, Transportation and Communications (DPWTC).
Additional government and city departments and agencies are also associated
with various aspects of the project as described below.
The National Housing Authority (NHA)
2.02      The NBA w11 be the principal Government agency implementing the
project and will be directly respontsible for executing the Tondo Foreshore
and Dagat-Dagatan components of the project. The NHA was estnblished by
Presidential Decree in July 1975, with the objective of concentrating Govern-
ment efforts, resources, functions and activities previously dispersed among
six independent bodies. It amalgamated the Peoples Homesite and Housing
Corporation (PHHC); the Presidential Assistant on Housing and Resettlement
Agency (PAHRA); the Tondo Foreshore Development Authority (TFDA); the Central
Institute for the Training and Relocation of Urban Squatters (CITRUS); the
Presidential Committee for Housing and Urban Resettlement (PRECHUR); and the
Sapang Palay Development Committee (SPDC).e
2.03      The NHA is governed by a Board of Directors composed of the General
Manager of the Authority, the Secretary of the Department of Public Works,
Transportation and Communications, the Director General of the National Economic
and Development Authority, the Secretary of Finance, the Secretary of Labor,
the Secretary of Industry. The Chairman of the Board and the General Manager
are appointed by the President.
2.04      The Acting General Manager of the NHA is General G.V. Tobias, pre-
viously General Manager of the TFDA, since its inception in 1974. At present,
he is assisted by a deputy and supervises all of NBA's present ftnctions
(Chart No. 15473). The organization plan, which was discussed during negoti-
ations, envisages an assistant general manager and seven department managers
supervising seven departments. As of April 1976, NHA's total staff numbered
about 1,100. The Government confirmed during negotiations that key staff
positions, including deputy to general manager, officer responsible for fi-
nancial planning, officer responsible for general administration and officer
responsible for project development have been officially appointed, as had
the project manager. Implementation of the full organiization plan is expected
to take at least two or more years. Management consultants retained under the
project will assist the NHA in this organizational development.
2.05      Objectives and Operating Policies.  The NBA is responsible for plan-
ning, programming and executing all national housing programs in the Philip-
pines. At present NBA, in cooperation with the National Economic and Devel-
opment Authority (NEDA) and the Task Force on Human Settlements (TFHS), is



NATIONAL HOUSING AUTHORITY
ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE
BOARD OF                             COMPASSION
DIRECTORS                            ON AUDIT
|GENERAL MANAGER           -    _ _   _OME FINANCE COMMiSSION
ASST. GENERAL MANAGER
-       |    T~~REASURER 
CORPORATE  OPERATIONS                                           CO~~~~~~~~~~~~MMUNITY  ELA T1.~
CORPORATE     OPERATIONS                      ~~~~~~LEGAL OFFICE       AND INFORMATIONOFIEFTH
PLANNING OFFICE               AUDIT OFFICE                                             OFFICE                           COMPTROLLER
L  PLANS E PRDGRAMS j    L     INTERNAL       j                                                                                     N
7  STAFF     l      7    ~~~~AUDIT STAFF
RELOCATION AND)             PROJECT                       ESTATE                                                                                                                                         LEA
RESETTIEMENT               IMPLEMENTATION                MANAGEMENT                    SPECIAL                  SOCIO ECONOMIC                REALTY TRADE                  FINANCE                    ADMINISTRATIVE
DEPTT                       DEPARTMENT                    DEPARTMENT                    PROJECTS                 DEVELOPMENT DEPT.            CONTROL DEPT.                  DEPARTMENT                 DEPARTMENT
L  CENSUS   l  J   LAND FLANNING B |     LiPROJECT OFFICES  |         4        TFDPO                    D  EVELOPMENT                  RtlEGULATION                               j      q       ECIO
SURVEY DIVISION              ENGINEERING                                                                                                         DIVISION                  DIVISION                         SECTION
RELOCATION AND             ARCHITECTURAL &                                                                                                    ENFORCEMENT                  LOANS                       PROCUREMENT SECT.
RESETTLEMENT               ENGINEERING DESIGN                                                                                                 D
DIVISION
+   TEANIG                                                                                                                                    DI# NVISIOENTS    j                  , PROPERTY SECTION |
MOTOR POOL USECT.|
RECORDS SECT.|
MAINTENANCE SECT|
SECURITY FORCEj



- 23 -
beginning work on a national housing plan and program, which will set clear
long-term and intermediate goals and will establish sound financial arrange-
ments to upgrade housing in the Philippines. NHA's Charter (Presidential
Decree No. 757) provides basic policy directions and stipulates general
limits to NHA's jurisdiction.
2.06      Financial Position and Performance.  NHA's financial position is
not yet clear, because the consolidation of the accounts and financial posi-
tions of the six amalgamated agencies is still in progress. The financial
positions of the six amalgamated agencies vary. A meaningful analysis of
NHA's financial system is, therefore, not possible; and since NHA has been
operating for only six months, its financial performance has yet to be
established. However, NRA should emerge with a sound financial position
because its enabling decree establishes a paid-in capital base of P 50 million,
and a subscribed capital of P 450 million, to be paid in over 9 years. As a
Government corporation, NHA is exempt from all income and other taxes. The
management consultants retained by NHA to assist in reorganization will also
assist the NRA in consolidating financial accounts and developing a manage-
ment information system.
Tondo Foreshore/Dagat-Dagatan Development Project Office (TFDPO)
2.07      The Tondo Development Authority (TFDA) was established in November
of 1974 and given responsibility for preparing and implementing a comprehen-
sive plan for development within the boundaries of the Tondo Foreshore and
Dagat-Dagatan lagoon. With the establishment of the NHA, the TFDA has been
converted into a special project unit of the NHA, known as the Tondo Foreshoret
Dagat-Dagatan Development Project Office (TFDPO). Chart 15472 shows the current
organizational structure of the TFDPO.
2.08      The TFDPO, at present, has five operational divisions responsible
for finance, construction, estate management, and social development and com-
mercial industrial areas. All of these are in need of improvement. The staff
numbers 200, of whom roughly 50% are professionals. Of the professional
staff, 4 are supervisory, 2 are financial analysts and accountants, 6 are
civil engineers, 3 are architects, 3 are social workers and community develop-
ment officers, and the balance are in support roles. The caliber of the staff
is variable, with a lack of experienced middle-management and an abundance
of well-qualified, but inexperienced, junior staff. The operational staff
are not used to undertaking detailed engineering economy studies, preparing
contract documents, bidding and procuring materials or works of civil engi-
neering construction on a scale required by the project. The senior manage-
ment of NHA and TFDPO has been under enormous pressure to deal with the
resettling of squatters affected by estero clearing and other works and this
has strained the capacity of the existing staff and pointed to the need for
further strengthening. The unit needs assistance particularly in the areas of
sanitary engineering, preparation of contract documents, contract supervision,
administration and control; the project allows for this. During negotiations,
agreements were reached on the provision of technical assistance in engineering
including a contracts engineer, a works engineer, a hydraulics engineer and a
supervision sanitary engineer.



INITIAL ORGANIZATION CHART
TFDPO
(TONDO FORESHORE/DAGAT-DAGATAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT OFFICE)
|-1   -TOU  L-------- - - - - - -                             -- -- -- - - - -- -l - -_ __ -  ___ -____ -O -
MANAGEMENT PLANNING                                                 SELATINE 
I  I              II                                                                   A I 
DEPARTMENTS
l INANOT                                                                                            ESTATE MANAGE RENT                           INEOSTEIAL                                      ESTElOEMMET
1w-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RU                                                                                                                GROUPg 
RANGE                                                                                          ES                                                         MAM         SAE                               ECONOMIC      SOCIA
ACCOUNTING    CASH  LOANS   CONSTRACTION   PEOCESGING  TATE   RELOCATION    TENANT GOM.   GNU                                          OPPORTUNITIES   GETELOPUENT~~~~~~~~~Wh"B-k.IJ72tR



- 25 -
2.09      In 1974 and 1975, the TFDPO carried out a small number of projects
for very simple upgrading improvements on roads, flood drainage and community
development. Because this has been an entirely new area for the TFDPO and the
Government, the TFDPO has learned largely by trial and error. As might be
expected, they have had mixed results, but invaluable experience has been
gained. The TFDPO has also been able to identify areas of weaknesses, prin-
cipally in sanitary engineering and in conducting effective community develop-
ment programs in the context of upgrading and sometimes uprooting residents.
In addition to the provision of technical assistance to improve its sanitary
engineering capability, the TFDPO has also arranged with the Metropolitan
Water Supply and Sewerage System (MWSS) for assistance in implementing the
water supply and sewerage elements of the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat-Dagatan
components. TFDPO is aware of the delicate nature of its community develop-
ment work and is taking steps to ensure that residents of the Tondo Foreshore
are able to play a reasonable role in planning and executing the important
details of the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat-Dagatan components of the project.
2.10      The measures described above to strengthen TFDPO's staff are
considered sufficient to permit it to carry out the proposed project. The
NHA has also agreed to establish a monitoring and evaluation unit to monitor
and evaluate the progress of the project.
Inter-Agency Coordination
2.11      The NHA will also be responsible for coordinating very closely
with other governmental agencies. For major infrastructure works, NHA will
coordinate with the DPH, which will be executing the major roads component;
with the MWSS, which will execute the sewage outfall and upgrading of the
Tondo Pumping Chamber and provide technical assistance for the water supply
and sewerage elements and for the offsite water supply work at Dagat-Dagatan;
and with the DPWTC for estero-related works. For economic and social compo-
nents, the NHA will coordinate with the DBP, which will administer the line of
credit for cottage industry; with the Department of Education and the Manila
City Schools Office, which will be responsible for the completed educational
facilities; with the Department of Health and the Manila City Health Office,
which will be responsible for the completed health facilities; and with the
National Nutrition Council and the POPCOM, which will run the nutrition and
family planning programs respectively included in the project. The NHA would
be responsible for coordinating the work of these departments and agencies in
the execution of the various components of this project and would be respon-
sible for turning them over for operations and maintenance to the respective
agencies and departments on completion of the project.



- 26 -
2.12      These arrangements are extremely complex and will stretch the
capabilities of the NHA. In order to ensure a more effective level of coor-
dination between the NHA and the other Government and City departments and
agencies involved in the project, a Letter of Instruction (LOI) has been
prepared for Presidential signature. Ratification of this LOI will be a
condition of effectiveness.
Department of Public Highways (DPH)
2.13      The Department of Public Eighways (DPH) will be responsible for
executing the major roads and traffic improvement component. The DPH is
responsible for planning construction and maintenance of national and pro-
vincial roads in the Philippines and, as such, accounts for about 60% of
all annual infrastructure investment expenditures. It has been responsible
for executing two projects financed by previous Bank loans in the Philippines
(Loan 731 and Loan 950-PH). The DPBH was the recipient of Bank-financed
technical assistance under the Second Highway Project (Loan 950-PH). The
DPH is a sound institution with satisfactory staffing, funding and proce-
dures to execute this project component satisfactorily.
Department of Public Works, Transportation and Communications (DPWTC)
2.14      The Department of Public Works, Transportation and Communications
(DPWTC) will assist the NHA in the execution of estero-related works in the
Tondo Foreshore and Dagat-Dagatan components of the project. The DPWTC was
established in its present form in 1974, when the Bureau of Public Highways
(BPH) was separated from the DPWTC and established as a department. DPWTC is
the principal Government agency responsible for national transport planning,
programming and implementation. The Project Planning and Development Office
(PPDO) in the DPWTC is responsible for transport policy coordination and
planning. Because of limited staff and the division of authority with DPH,
transportation planning in the Metropolitan Manila Area (MMA) has been in-
effective.
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP)
2.15      The Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) will be responsible
for administering the lines of credit for cottage industry. DBP, established
in 1958 as a wholly Government-owned development bank, operates in all the
important sectors of the economy.  DBP's present management has continued its
efforts to strengthen the institution and to raise the standards of its
operations; and the overall quality of DBP's middle-management has generally
improved.
2.16      The line of credit for cottage industries, most of which will have
total assets of less than $20,000, will be administered by the Industrial
Projects Department II (IPD) on a pilot basis for manufacturing subprojects,
or those with a substantial capital content. At NHA's option, a portion of
the credit line, totaling $0.44 million may be disbursed through either the
Philippine National Bank (PNB) ot the Philippine Business for Social Progress



- 27 -
(PBSP), where the subproject is of a purely commercial nature. Each of
these institutions is expected to be able to satisfactorily undertake the
function of loan evaluation and follow-up.
Other Agencies and Departments
2.17      The Departments of Education, Health, and Social Welfare, the
National Nutrition Council, the Population Commission of the Philippines
(POPCOM) and the Manila City Health and Schools Offices have the capacity
to give satisfactory assistance during project implementation and satis-
factory staffing, funding and procedures to ensure adequate operation and
maintenance of the various completed facilities.
III. DESIGN STANDARDS AND PROJECT SPECIFICATIONS
3.01      Preliminary engineering designs were carried out by the Project
Planning and Development Office (PPDO) of the DPWTC, acting in conjunction
with the staff of the former TFDA.
3.02      Detailed engineering of the shelter components is being completed
by NHA/TFDPO, detailed engineering for the major roads and the traffic and
transport improvements is being completed by the DPH; and detailed engineer-
ing for the sewage outfall and the Tondo Pumping Chamber upgrading is being
undertaken by MWSS. Designs are based on agreements reached with the MWSS,
the Department of Public Buildings and Works (DPBW) and the City of Manila.
A. Upgrading and Sites and Services
Water Supply - Onsite
3.03      Individual connections for a bucket-flush toilet, washing area,
faucet and sink with separate faucet will be provided to all lots and struc-
tures. The present policy of MWSS is to install a meter to each new connec-
tion (meter cost P 220); but after discussions with project officers, MWSS has
provisionally agreed to group metering with prices based on the standard sub-
rate for small users of P .20/cu m/mo 1/.  The secondary and tertiary distribu-
tion system generally follows the road and footpath layout and consists of 3",
1/   Domestic consumers using over 30 cu m per month pay an average rate of
P .50 per cu m.



- 28 -
4", 6", 8" and 12" 1/ locally-manufactured asbestos cement pipes with cast
iron fittings and flexible joints. The great majority of the systems will be
3-inch diameter (approx. 71 km out of 83 km), compared to the 6-inch minimum
generally adopted in Manila.
3.04      House connections will be made with 3/4" and 1/2" polyethylene pipes.
Consumption design standards are based on 30 gallons per capita per day, and
the design allows for a peak flow of two times the average flow. Fire flows
allow for 250 gpm each from two adjacent hydrants main roads accessible to
pumps. During fire flows, residential pressures will fall considerably, and
only average demand could be met. Adequate provision for supply to the sites
have been made for Tondo and Dagat-Dagatan.
3.05      Tondo.  The recently comissioned Tondo and Algeciras pumping
stations and service reservoirs are designed to deliver 51 mgd, of which
5 mgd will be provided to Tondo. 2/ MWSS will be responsible for any revision
to the supply patterns necessary tc divert this water to Tondo.
3.06      Dagat-Dagatan.  Until the primary network is reinforced and extended,
Dagat-Dagatan will have to be served by a temporary 8" polyethylene service
pipe connected to the existing water main (in Letre Road), approximately 1.5
km from the sites and services site. Adequate pressure is available, and up
to 0.7 mgd will be passed to Dagat-Dagatan. The extension to the primary
grid is expected to be completed by 1979.
Sewerage
3.07      Each lot will have individual sanitary units and individual connec-
tions to the sewage collection network. The design is based on a per capita
consumption of water of 30 gal/day, with 100% return to the sewerage system.
The assumed peak flow factor is twc times the average flow for the intercep-
tor sewer and three times the average flow for the laterals. An infiltration
allowance of 5,000 gal/acre/day has also been made. At Tondo, the sewer net-
work consists of 6" diameter property connections flowing into 8", 10", 12"
and 15" diameter laterals (69.4 km in length), which in turn connect into a
3-km long intercepting sewer (12", 18", 21" and 30" dia), which will dis-
charge into the Tondo Pumping Chamber. Manholes will be constructed in ren-
dered concrete blocks on the shallower sewers (up to 2 m depth), and precast
concrete segments will be used for the deeper lengths. Pumping chambers will
be constructed in reinforced concrete.
3.08      The type of toilet proposed is a water-sealed, vitrified clay
pedestal, manually flushed with a bucket. Clean outs and rodding eyes will
be provided in lieu of manholes for household systems, and pipe work within
property boundaries will be in PVC.
1/   72.1 km in Tondo and 11.50 km in Dagat-Dagatan.
2/   Less than 2% of the total MWSS supply.



- 29 -
3.09      A major problem in constructing sewer systems in the Philippines
is that satisfactory pipes are not available. No vitrified clay pipes for
house connections and small diameter street laterals are made in the country,
although the clay is apparently available, and the technology required is not
advanced. The Government is considering undertaking a feasibility study into
the manufacture of such pipes. For large diameter mains, reinforced concrete
pipes of dubious quality with ogee joints and external short collars are
available; pipes with flexible spigot-and-socket joints are not manufactured
locally. To overcome this, the NHA is having discussions with pipe manufac-
turers and MWSS to ascertain the feasibility of manufacturing vertically-cast
vibrated spigot and socket pipes capable of utilizing rubber rings for joint-
ing purposes; there is no doubt, however, that pipes of this type can be
satisfactorily manufactured in the Philippines.
3.10      Sewage from Tondo will be discharged to the existing Tondo Pumping
Station and pumped to sea through a new outfall; in due course, but not sooner
than ten years, these facilities will be replaced in accordance with the up-
dated sewerage master plan, preparation of which should start in late 1976.
The rated capacity of the Tondo Pumping Station is 116 cu ft/sec (all 3 pumps
running) and, with the completion of the Manila I Water Project in 1979,
MWSS estimates that the peak contribution from the area presently sewered
will be 101 cu ft/sec. In order to handle the additional peak flow of up
to 22 cu ft/sec from Tondo, the pumping capacity will have to be increased,
and it is proposed to replace the smallest (155 hp) pump with a larger
(300 hp) unit. At the same time, the electrical switchgear of the station
will be overhauled and uprated, and the screens and sluice valves replaced.
3.11      The state of the existing sewer outfall in Tondo is a serious pro-
blem, in part due to construction of the International Port. It is broken
in a number of places and partially silted. Before deciding to replace the
outfall, MWSS considered several options involving repairing and strengthen-
ing. Sewage disposal from Dagat-Dagatan eventually will be discharged into
an intercepting sewer constructed under the Manila sewerage master plan. In
the short term, it is proposed to dispose of the sewage by means of stabiliza-
tion ponds, sited to the south of the residential area, which would discharge
into a neighboring creek. NHA is receiving specialist advice on the design
of these ponds to ensure that they meet the requirements of the National
Pollution Control Council (NPCC).
Surface-Water Drainage
3.12      The design for storm drainage is based on a 10-year storm, with a
60% run off coefficient. Surface water is handled by a combination of open
ditches and a sub-surface piped network.



- 30 -
3.13      The flat terrain, with ground levels not far above the high-water
mark, makes it difficult to eliminate flooding, 1/ but the project should
bring the conditions in Tondo into line with those of Manila as a whole.
Piping will be in plain and reinforced concrete in various diameters up to
60 inches. In development of new sites, each lot will be provided, where
necessary, with a patio drain, with piped discharge to the roads or foot-
paths. The City of Manila will take over the surface-water drainage system
on completion and be responsible for subsequent maintenance.
Internal Roads and Pedestrian Facilities
3.14      Tondo Foreshore.  The present circulation pattern of the Tondo
Foreshore area is a mesh of conflicting flows and obstructions, and many
areas lack road and/or adequate pedestrian access. The existing roads and
footpaths amount to 34.4 km in length and break down into the following
categories:
21.2 km   Pedestrian ways
4.8 km   Pedestrian-dominated roads
8.4 km   Vehicular-dominated roads
There is a mixture of surface treatments including gravel and earth, concrete
and bitumen macadam. Eighty-two percent (28.2 km) of the existing roads and
footways are in a bad condition; they will all be seriously affected by the
provision of utilities and will require total reconstruction. To the extent
possible, existing base material will be stored on site for reuse. Under the
upgrading proposals, a hierarchy of roads and pathways will be provided,
resulting in the following pattern:
Length    Right-of-Way
(km)         (m)
Vehicular-dominated roads          10.2         8 - 15
Pedestrian-dominated roads          7.2         4 - 7.9
Pedestrian ways                    29.6         2 - 3.9
resulting in a circulation area of 29.6 ha, or 17.9% of the total upgraded
area. The length of road and footway per gross ha is .106 km and .18 km
respectively. The roads and footways have been designed to offer a minimum
1/   The invert level of the outfalls has been set at 10.75 m above datum.
Mean sea level is 10.48 m, and mean high water level 10.86 m above
datum.



- 31 -
standard commensurate with traffic needs and maintenance requirements.
Vehicular-dominated roads will have a carriageway width varying from 6.10-
7.30 m, and they will be surfaced with 5 cm of bitumen macadam on 20 cm of
rolled gravel base. Pedestrian-dominated roads will be surfaced with a
double seal bitumen spray and stone chippings on a rolled gravel base varying
in thickness from 10-20 cm. Footways will be provided with a double seal and
chip surface on 10 cm of rolled gravel base. Curbs and channels will be
provided on vehicular-dominated roads. Gulleys and piped surface-water
drainage will be provided wherever possible, but in certain instances open
ditches will be utilized.
3.15      Dagat-Dagatan.  Again, a hierarchy of pathways and roads will be
provided with vehicular penetration of the residential areas kept to a mini-
mum. A north-south road built to carry busloadings will link the C-3 and the
Dagat-Dagatan spine road. This road should evolve into a corridor of activity.
The specifications will be similar to those proposed for the Tondo Foreshore.
The length of roads and footways to be provided are as follows:
Length    Right-of-Way
(km)         (m)
Main corridors                    2.9        12-22
Pedestrian-dominated roads        4.7         4-5
Pedestrian ways                   6.7         2-3
Electricity and Street Lighting
3.16      Meralco, the electricity supply company in Manila, will install
lamps on existing poles and progressively finish the main power grid. Each
structure, or new lot, will be provided with a metered electrical connection
on request of the leasees or owners who can afford this service.
Fisherman's Channel
3.17      The silt at the invert and the banks of the channel will be removed,
and the channel filled with approximately 90,000 cu m of hydraulic fill.
Maintenance
3.18      Maintenance of the utility services provided at Tondo will be under-
taken by the line agencies and the City of Manila. In the case of water and
sewerage, the MWSS will receive a revenue of about P 1.6 million per annum
($220,000) and the City of Manila will receive about P 3 million per annum



- 32 -
($400,000) in property taxes. 1/ For these sums, the city will provide
garbage collections, fire and street lighting services and maintain the
roads, footways and surface-water drainage networks.
Lot Options for Sites and Services Areas
3.19      A hierarchy of dwelling lot options is essential to dense urban
residential developments. A range of alternatives in size, cost and location
within the project will best meet user needs and stimulate the natural pro-
gressive development of the community. Each lot in the sites and services
area will be provided with minimum lot services (basic sanitary core) con-
sisting of a water connection supplying two faucets (one over a sink and one
in a drained washing area); a bucket-flushed toilet; a sewer connection and
a party wall. In addition, a series of building material packages, costing
between P 500 and P 600 each (materials only), will be made available to owner/
builders. The incremental development options provided by the packages are:
(a) completion of party walls, poles and roof;
(b) completion of end gable wall and sides to sanitary unit;
(c) provision of mezannine floor; and
(d) completed shell.
Sketches indicating these development options are shown on Charts 15470 and
15228(R). Percentages of the various lot sizes are given below. Some of the
larger lots (e.g. those greater than 84 sq m) will have the potential to ex-
pand into a much larger dwelling (i.e. for large, extended family situations),
or for the addition of a rental unit(s) sharing the basic sanitary core.
Percentages of Lot Sizes
39 sq in                  Larger than
or less    39-50 sq m        50 sq m        Total
Tondo                 10            52             38            100
Dagat-Dagatan         18            62             20            100
1/   Residential land value is 1,061,000 x P 200 = P 212 million, tax yield =
approximately P 2 million/annum; and
industrial and commercial land value - P 100 million, tax yield =
approximately P 1 million/annum.



-33-
LOT DEVELOPMENT OPTIONS
ALL LOTS WILL BE PROVIDED WITH A BASIC SANITARY CORE UNIT
THE COSTS DO NOT INCLUDE THE SERVICING COSTS OF A LOT (-P90Im2) WHICH ARE ABOUTF 4,320 FOR A 48 m2 LOT
1. SANITARY CORE UNIT
ELEMENTS
3 m.              3.0 m X 3.5 m. SOIL - CEMENT FLOOR SLAB
FLOOR DRAIN       --    BASIN                                WITH A 1.5 X 1.2 m X .1 m
CONC. SLAB TO W.C.
4" SEWER\   <   rl  lir 1   i~   9                        CONC. BLOCK WALL 4.5 m. X 3.0 m.
SANITARY FITTINGS
ESTIMATED COST P 1425 INCL. LABOUR
M7" WATER SERVICE
3 m. X 3.5 m.                      <       s>
SOIL CEMENT   ,      -           .             E
FLOOR                                         EDGE OF PLOT
2. CORE AND ROOF
ASBESTOS CEMENT
SHEET ROOF
ELEMENTS
SAME AS ABOVE PLUS POLES AND
ROOF TO SANITARY CORE; PARTY
WALL COMPLETED.
ADDITIONAL MATERIALS COST-' 500 -600
3. SIDEWALL AND
COMPLETED TOILET
CONC. BLOCK WALL
ELEMENTS
SAME AS ABOVE WITH
TOILET ENCLOSED BUT
GABLE WALL COMPLETED
ADDITIONAL MATERIALS COST $ 500-600
4. MEZANINE ADDED                                  5. COMPLETED SHELL
ELEMENTS AS BEFORE
BUT WITH MEZANINE ADDED                     COMPLETED SHELL PLUS MEZANINE
ADDITIONAL MATERIALS COST-P 500 - 600       ADDITIONAL MATERIAL COSTR 500 - 600
World Bank-15470



D7EVELOPMENT PATTERN
|~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- P053k OPD   D  PLOT
FLOOR DRAINl2. 7                                                                _        i
4""WAf SEWER e      \  
4'LSERIWE-                                                                                                -
>\  ___.fl,y _- S1EF-1 F- ,5ly s provided
h  -~~~  ~~  ~~ \  ~~~    ; u m.                               w~~~ith F I.,n  planned , o
sTEP-2 F-itly -ay iiti5ll,
era; a shachk 4r,a-' Waht-ae
materiaSa are available.
STEP-3 A. famiv in--0555
530(551s a perma-ent house
ISf bette, mare-i,ala a con-
ln afTaiSS  flatOSWPS alsuspendad5 t555 n-0ber   55V 5rma 0b                        structe ay hv Lne*a tslf
prmarv d hut0 5i iss dep srntsnl on5as5is, prasfsrsnoe                               13p.
w500 Hia,-55225s51



-35-
MANILA UR9AN DEVEWL0PI2T PROJECT
Table lII-i: LAOD-USE DISTRIBUTION
Tondo                               Dagat-Dagatan
Pnase I          Ultimate Development
Land Use           Hectares   Percentage   Hectares   Percentage   Hectares   Percentage
Residential          91.3       55.61         10.8        36.2          168.7       5.90
Cotniercial/         27.3       16.59          5.5        18.5-          89.3       24.0o
Industrial
Institutional        10.8        6.59          5*9L1      19.8           19.6        5.30
Open Spaces           5.3         3.23          2.7        9.1           31.7        8.60
Circulation-         29.6       17.98           4.9       16..           57.9       15.80
Total               164.3       100.00.        29.8      100.0          367.3      100.00
/1 Including 5.L ha for te!mporary stabilization pond.
/2 Not including R-10.



- 36 -
Land Use
3.20      Maps 11892 and 11890 show the land-use plan for the Tondo Foreshore
after development and the layout design for the Dagat-Dagatan sites. The
distribution of land use in the Tondo Foreshore and in Dagat-Dagatan after
project implementation is shown in Table III-1.
B. Community Facilities, Nutrition and Health Programs
Community Facilities
3.21      Schools.  The school age population in Tondo comprises 20.7% of the
total Tondo community population. The current primary school participation
rate in Tondo is 41%, compared with over 90% for the city as a whole. It is
projected that by 1980 the participation rate in Tondo will increase to 88%.
The project includes the construction of 119 new classrooms for 5 elementary
schools in Tondo. Of the new classrooms, 30 will be constructed as annexes of
the R. Almario Elementary School; 17 will be for the M.L. Quezon Elementary
School; 30 units will be for the A. V. Hernandez Elementary School; 17 units
will be for the Magat Salamat Elementary School; and 25 units will be for the
Gen. Lim (Vitas Elementary) School. The project also involves construction of
46 primary school classrooms in Dagat-Dagatan and a new 49-room high school.
Design standards are based on 2 shifts per day for elementary schools and 3
shifts per day for high schools. The maximum number of pupils/class is 40,
the size of a classroom is 63 sq m, and the gross floor area per attendant
place is 1.7 sq m.
3.22      Community Centers.  Twenty-five community multi-purpose centers
will be constructed in Tondo and three in Dagat-Dagatan. Each community
center will consist of a covered area of about 65 sq m, with an enclosed
office and toilet facility (about 16 sq m). These centers shall be construc-
ted by community self-help labor and located adjacent to the open spaces.
They will be used as multi-purpose centers, as described earlier, and will
include playlots (nurseries) of 156 sq m for pre-schoolers. Five of these
centers will have a basketball court of 465.8 sq m, which will serve the dual
purpose of being a recreation center for adults, including film presentations
and dance floors. These 5 centers in Tondo and 3 in Dagat-Dagatan will each
have a total floor space of 685.8 sq m, while the remaining 20 centers, minus
basketball courts, will be 220 sq m each.
3.23      Vitas Playground.  A 532-sq m playground will be constructed upon
reclaimed land in the Vitas area. The playground will be equipped with
locally (Tondo) made equipment for zhildren 5-10 years of age and will also
serve as a playing field for school children.
3.24      Community Skill Training Center (Expansion).  One additional 250
sq m building at the Community Skills Training Center, will be constructed,
providing 5 additional classrooms. This will enable the center to increase
the number of vocational and cottage industry courses and to raise enroll-
ment by some 25-30%.



- 37 -
3.25      Clinics.  Nearly all the Government clinics need some degree of
physical upgrading, such as improvement in sewerage and water connections,
repairs to walls, roofs and, in one case, reconstruction. Some minor equip-
ment also needs to be replaced and updated, and at least 50 beds need to be
provided in the area in order to meet acceptable standards. The project,
therefore, involves: (a) the upgrading of the Fugoso Health Center and reno-
vation of the Vitas Health Center and two Tulungan centers (Del Pan and
Moriones); (b) the reconstruction of the Velasquez Health Center, which is
to be transferred to a new site since it is presently located along the path
of proposed road; (c) the provision of 6 pediatric beds and rehydration equip-
ment to each of Rawis and Moriones Tulungan centers; and (d) the construc-
tion of a 25-bed health center in Tondo (Fisherman's Channel) and a 25-bed
center in Dagat-Dagatan. Each of these identical clinics will have an appro-
ximate floor space of 1,134 sq m (with a second floor of 565 sq m), four
6-bed wards and a labor room.
3.26      Barangay Volunteer Medics (BVMs).  Three-hundred volunteers from
the Tondo community will be trained over a 12-18 month period by the NHA, in
coordination with the Department of Health and other Government agencies in-
volved in the training of volunteer workers. The training of each BVM will
take about two months and include education in family planning methods;
follow-up referrals; first-aid treatment for malnourished children; weighing
procedures and recognition of malnutrition; recognition and referrals of com-
municable disease; vaccinations; administration of deworming drugs; vermin
control and waste disposal; and the preparation of records and statistical
information. The BVMs will also be able to dispense certain medicines and
injections.
3.27      Identification and Location of Malnourished Children.  Modest sup-
port, in the form of weighing scales, will be provided to an ongoing program,
involving the weighing of all children less than six years old, to discover
suspected cases of malnutrition. Follow-up treatment and family counseling
for children in primary, secondary and tertiary stages of malnutrition is
provided. The project is based on provision of yellow cards to families of
secondary malnutrition cases and red cards to tertiary malnutrition cases.
These admit the children to clinics on a priority basis; and, after counsel-
ing and treatment, the BVMs instruct the mothers how to weigh their children
and to keep a record of their status, using a simple weight chart. Mothers
can also attend nutrition classes at regular intervals in the community
centers. However, all mothers of critically malnourished children are re-
quired to attend these classes at least once a week. TFDPO and the Nutrition
Foundation of the Philippines will administer this program. The weight of
children from selected families will be monitored, from time to time, to
evaluate the program. Catholic Relief Services will provide a corn-soy
mixture (from USAID PL 480 programs) to the clinics.
3.28      Food Preparation.  As part of the infant nutrition program, mothers
will be taught the use and preparation of a simple, nutritious food mixture
using local ingredients. The mixture includes mango nut powder, rice, red



- 38 -
palm or coconut oil, and unsalted anchovy or shrimp powder in a proportion
of 2:6:1:1. The caloric content is about 20 calories per gram, and protein
is 1 gm/gm. For a one-year old infant, about 50 gm/day are needed, in addi-
tion to breast feeding and to the usual mixtures of strained fruits and
vegetables. The mixture would cost: about P 1 per 100 grams, or 50 centavos/
day, at current shop prices in Tondo. It can be prepared in the home by
grinding the ingredients in a dish or a grinder. The Nutrition Council of
the Philippines will be in charge of this program, as well as Project Tulungan,
Office of the President.
3.29      Vitamin and Iron Supplementation Program.  It is estimated, from
records obtained from clinics in the area, that about 5% of the children in
Tondo suffer from some degree of visual impairment due to Vitamin A defi-
ciency. The survey carried out by the Nutrition Foundation, in the spring of
1975, revealed that 36% of the children over 4 years of age are deficient in
Vitamin A, and nearly 50% of the adults were consuming diets that were not
meeting the basic physiological requirement for the vitamin. Accordingly,
since a deficiency of this vitamin leads to a much greater susceptibility to
infections, as well as eventual bl.ndness, a proposal to include a mass-dose
Vitamin A program is being considered for the project area. If the bio-
chemical survey being undertaken justifies it, this will entail twice-yearly
oral administration of 100,000 i.u. of Vitamin A palmitate to around 40,000
children between the ages of 2-6 years of age, by a combined force of BVMs,
Nutrition Foundation personnel and clinical staff. The program will be under
the administration of the National Nutrition Council. In terms of iron defi-
ciency anemia, the latest surveys indicate that over a third of lactating
mothers and young children suffer from the disease. In view of the estab-
lished connection between this disease and apathy, predisposition to infec-
tions and reduced productivity, all clinics, Tulungan centers and social
workers will be responsible for supplying all eligible females in the study
area with cheap, but effective, take-home iron supplements. Hemoglobin
(blood iron) levels will be monitored on a yearly basis in a subsample to
evaluate the success of the program.
3.30      Nutrition Education.  A program of nutrition and health education
is to be conducted in the barangay centers and in schools by personnel from
the Nutrition Foundation of the Philippines.  Particular emphasis will be
given to breast feeding and the cooking of nutritious food mixtures. The
preparation and erection of posters and advertising will be conducted through
the National Media Center. Follow-up surveys will be carried out to evaluate
the inputs the mothers receive.
3.31      Immunization.  Based on the data gathered from the health centers
and clinics, there were, in 1974, 210 deaths and 2,662 confirmed cases of
communicable diseases (diphtheria, measles, typhoid, cholera, poliomyelitis)
in Tondo Foreshore alone. In order to arrest the spread of infection, and
with the advice of WHO consultants, the project will include the provision
of DPT (diphtheria, pertusis, tetanus), measles and poliomyelitis vaccines
to about 30% of the children in Tondo (about 14,678 vaccinations a year),



- 39 -
and cholera-typhoid to about 98% of the inhabitants of Tondo. The BVMs have
already begun to be trained in the administration of vaccines and the neces-
sary record keeping.  The Department of Health will be responsible for the
program. Given the high prevalence of tuberculosis, an ancillary program to
detect, treat and prevent tuberculosis in adults is also included, that will
cover all adults in Tondo District.  The capital expenditure is mainly for
an X-ray laboratory, which will be purchased under local competitive bidding
and will be located at Rawis Tulungan Center in Tondo.
3.32      Deworming Program.  Because of the presence of worms (mainly ascaris
lumbricoides) in nearly 90% of all the children surveyed at random and 80% of
the adults, and the concomitant decline in productivity, health and longevity,
a deworming component is included in the project. While some 10%, of the
children in the Foreshore have already been "dewormed," the major activities
under this component for maximum effectiveness will take place after sewerage
and water connections to individuals' households have been installed. A
target of about 46,000 children, between 4 and 12, will be aimed at (100%
coverage); and as many adults as possible will be included, using a two-dose
approach. The program will run for three years and will be financed and admin-
istered by the Department of Health. Stool samples will be collected at re-
gular intervals.
3.33      Family Planning.  The delivery of family planning information, ser-
vices, etc. will be via the Health and Tulungan Centers, in addition to the
Barangay Volunteer Medics who are being trained to also function as family
planning motivators and advisers. The family planning program for the proj-
ect area places as a target for a ten-year period, 1974-84, the reduction
of the birth rate from 3.3-2.5%. Operational targets for each year have been
set up. Personalized follow-up letters, campaigns geared to aduLt males,
adult education classes in schools, referred systems, roving mobile units,
monitoring and evaluation systems, etc. are features of the program and, at
the local level, will be under the responsibility of one person in each
barangay (physician, barangay chairman and/or volunteer medical worker). The
Population Commission of the Philippines (POPCOM) will supervise, fund and
design the program.
3.34      Vermin and Rodent Control Program.  The large number of rats and
vermin, such as lice, present in Tondo will have to be eliminated or reduced
considerably, in order to reduce many of the communicable diseases in the
area. Accordingly, the City Health Department will finance a subproject to
reduce vermin and rodents in the area.  The capital expenditure is P 45,000
(sprays and fogging equipment), and the recurrent expenditure P 30,000 per year.
3.35      Community Development Programs.  The Social and Community Develop-
ment Department of TFDPO, with the cooperation of the Departments of Local
Government, Social Welfare and Education, will carry out a number of adult
recreation and information programs for the calendar years 1976-78. Em-
phasis will be on programs focused towards women, out-of-school youths and
community leadership. In addition, NHA/TFDPO staff have agreed that preceed-
ing project implementation, NHA/TFDPO will upgrade and increase its social



- 40 -
program designed to inform the people of Tondo of the rationale, features and
implications of every aspect of the upgrading program. A social task force
will be constituted composed of existing community-relation specialists,
barangay leaders, civic leaders, ZOTO personnel and other interested groups,
who would obtain a better overview of the project, such that the cooperation
of the Tondo people is assured. Engineers from the physical implementation
groups would also be combined with the task force to better relate implementa-
tion with household needs. Methodology and approaches would center on learn-
ing and doing with the people. In addition, the task force will include social
workers who can inform the Tondo people about the land tenure arrangements and
methods proposed for cost recovery. Before any families are relocated, TFDPO
and the Department of Health will undertake an immunization program to prevent
any outbreaks of communicable diseases and to spray the relocation site with
anti-vermin and malaria drugs. Staff from the Department of Social Welfare
will also be on hand during actual relocation, to help families by providing
them with food rations, advice and child care. Each family displaced will be
allocated P 100.
3.36      Maintenance of Community Facilities.  While the NHA/TFDPO will
construct the buildings included in the project, the capital costs will be
recovered from the Government through the operating agencies who will staff,
maintain and manage the facilities provided. The line agencies involved are
the City of Manila (for schools and some health centers), the Department of
Health and the Department of Social Welfare.
C. Loans for Small-Businesses and Loans for Building Materials
Small-Business Loan Program Terms and Conditions
3.37      Loans will be granted by DBP under an agreement with NHA, who will
pass funds on to DBP. At NHA's option, it may also enter into agreements
with PNB or PBSP for this purpose. A draft agreement has been prepared by
NHA in cooperation with DBP, as has an annex to the agreement, which contains
the essential elements of a lending manual.
3.38      Greater flexibility in collateral requirements will be made possible
primarily by the extensive project preparation and supervision that will be
provided by personnel of the Medium and Small-Scale Industries Coordinated
Action Program (MASICAP) and through co-guarantor schemes under which other
members of the community can co-sign certain loans when an applicant does not
have sufficient collateral to support the loan. In addition, because resi-
dents in the area will be offered title to the property on which they live
and work, the amount of collateral assets available to small entrepreneurs
will be significantly increased.



- 41 -
3.39      Loans are generally expected to fall in the following categories:
Classification         Loan Amount       % of Funds Available
Category I          P   400  - 10,000               30
Category II         P 10,000 - 50,000               50
Category III        Over P 50,000                   20
Loans for small business will be provided to residents at rates established
by DBP, but with not less than a 12% rate of interest for a period of up to
7 years depending on the type of loan and other factors.  It is expected
that the Central Governemnt will bear the foreign exchange risk, the NHA will
receive 1/4% to offset costs, and that the corresponding lending institutions
will retain a 3% spread on Bank funds.  In addition, a special one-time fee
of 2% of the amount guaranteed will be paid by the sub-borrower and retained
by NHA to offset costs. Default risk would be shared between NHA and the
cooperating lending institutions. Because of the experimental nature of this
component, an evaluation of the program and the institutional arrangements
will be made after one year (see para 4.16).
3.40      Eligibility.  Citizens of the Philippines, producer cooperatives,
partnerships, or corporations, capitalized 100% by Filipino citizens engaged
or planning to engage in individual ventures.
3.41      Loans falling under Category I shall be limited to the residents
of the project area, who shall put up the business within the prescribed area.
3.42      Projects falling under Category II and III, where the project is
located outside the Tondo/Dagat-Dagatan area, will be eligible only upon
demonstration that a substantial number of the firms' employees are residents
of the project areas.
3.43      Purposes of Loan.  The loan shall be for any of the following:
(a) acquisition, construction or improvement of capital assets,
including building, machinery and equipment; and
(b) working capital.
3.45      Term of Loan.  Loans shall be repaid at the standard interest rate
established by DBP, but shall not be less than 12% plus a one-time charge of
2%. Repayment shall be as follows:



- 42 -
Loan Classification       Repayment Period           Repayment Schedule
Working Capital                1 year            Equal Monthly Amortization
Other Category I & II          1-3 years         Equal Monthly Amortization
Other Category III             3-7 years         Equal Monthly Amortization
3.46      Collateral
(a)  For Category I                   No collateral is required.  Security
shall be one qualified and solvent
co-obligator who shall answer in case
of default.
(b)  For Category II & III            The collateral shall be a lien on a
leasehold or the first mortgage on
titled buildings, machinery and equip-
ment and other mortgageable assets
already owned by the applicant, or to
be acquired partly or fully with pro-
ceeds of the loan. In the case of a
corporation, its principal stockholders
and office may be required to sign as
co-obligers.
3.47      Debt-Equity Requirement.  The proponent shall be required to put up
a minimum equity contribution of 20% of total project cost, either in cash or
in kind.
Building Materials Loans Terms and Conditions
3.48      These loans are being provided for the purpose of permitting
families to improve the houses in which they live on a self-help basis.
Materials will be provided through warehouses approved by NHA to residents
of Tondo and Dagat-Dagatan who are granted loans for this purpose by DBP.
NHA will provide funds to DBP under an agreement similar to that for the
small-business loan program:
Size of Loan:        Up to a maximum of p 3,500, depending on the
income of the borrower.
Purpose
of the Loan:       Improving or expanding existing dwelling units.



- 43 -
Terms of Loan:       Loan shall be repaid within five (5) years or
less depending on the amount applied for and
the paying capacity of the applicant as deter-
mined by the DBP. Repayment of loan shall be
on equal monthly amortization. 'The interest
rate shall be the rate as established by DBP,
but not less than 12%.
Collateral/
Security:          At the option of DBP, will be either on assign-
ment of leasehold or a solvent and qualified co-
obligator who shall answer in case of default.
D. Major Roads
3.49      The radial road R-10 and circumferential roads C-2 and C-3 will be
used by heavy commercial vehicles using the port and related facilities. The
alignment of the R-10 has been chosen in such a way that demolition of resi-
dential property in the Tondo will be kept to a minimum, while a:Llowing
adequate space for the functioning of the North Harbor (see Map 11892). For
a portion of its length, the R-10 will pass over reclaimed land. Bridges will
be required where it crosses the Marala River and Estero de Vitas. The R-10
will have a right-of-way of 22 m between C-1 and C-2 and 12 m between C-2 and
C-3. The right-of-way of the C-2 will be 22 m. Ultimately, the R-10 will
have a right-of-way up to 60 m and the C-2 50 m.
3.50      The carriageways constructed under this project will be restricted
to two lanes, with the exception of the portion of the R-10 between C-1 and
C-2, which will be built as a dual carriageway. The carriageway construction
will consist of a 10-cm bituminous surfacing on a 20-cm thick granular base
laid on a rolled aggregate subbase, with a minimum depth of 20 cm, but actual
depth depending on the formation conditions. Surface-water drainage gullies
discharging into a pipe system and street lighting will also be provided. CBR
values of 3%, or less, exist in the Tondo Foreshore; on reclaimed land and
other low-lying areas, the cost estimates allow for a minimum excavation of
1 m below the finished grade elevation and for replacement with suitable sub-
grade material. Where road works penetrate the bay, the existing sea bed will
be reinforced with sand piles and mattress; the exposed face of the reclama-
tion will be protected by rock filling.
Bridges
3.51      Five two-lane carriageway bridges will be constructed as part of
the major road component. Two bridges form part of the R-10: one at the
crossing of the Estero de Vitas (span 60 m) and one at the crossing of the
Marala River (span 100 m). One bridge forms part of the C-2, where it
crosses the Estero de Vitas. The other two bridges cross the Estero de
Vitas at Velasquez Street (span 80 m) and at Rodriguez Street (span 90 m)



- 44 -
in Tondo. The Velasquez Street bridge will replace the bridge damaged in
the Second World War, and the Rodriguez Street bridge will replace the
existing narrow bailey panelled bridge. The bridges will consist of
standard type, pre-stressed concrete girders with an in situ concrete deck.
Reinforced concrete abutments and piers will be founded on precast piles.
River Training Works
3.52      River training works will be required to the banks of the Estero
de Vitas near the R-10 and C-2 bridges and to the Marala River bridge on the
R-l0. Anchored steel sheet piling with a concrete capping beam is proposed.
Junctions
3.53      Seven signal-controlled junctions are proposed:  four on the R-10
and three on the C-2. Two sets of signals on the C-2 (where this road crosses
Abad Santos and Rizal Avenue), are included in the traffic component.
E.  Traffic Improvements
Junction Improvements
3.54      A considerable amount of highway has already been built in Manila,
much of it to dual-carriage standards. The main hindrance to traffic move-
ment occurs at junctions; traffic flow could be considerably improved by
achieving a better balance between the performance of junctions and the
performance of links in the network:
(a)  Signalization.  Junction improvements financed under the
project will concentrate on bottlenecks, so that existing
parts of the network can function to their full efficiency.
There are 100 signal-controlled junctions in the Greater
Manila area, and many of them are performing extremely badly.
In general, the simple single, fixed plan for signal timings
at isolated junctions, which is currently in use in Manila,
is not satisfactory. Such junctions as are to remain
isolated, and are not interconnected, must either have
several (three as a minimum) different signal timing plans
to deal with traffic at different times of the day, or must
have sufficient vehicle detectors to enable them to respond
to traffic at different times of the day. Unfortunately,
police intervention employing manual control often seems
to worsen rather than improve the situation. The signals
which exist in Greater Manila are the cheapest which can
be obtained; they take nc, account of variation of traffic
flow, differing conditions at various times of the day, or
the performance of signals at neighboring junctions.
Advantages can be obtained by connecting traffic signals



together. Under the project, 88 sets of signals close to
or within the area circumscribed by C-2 will be linked.
Thirty-eight of these will be new signals provided under
the project, and fifty will be existing signals. The
operational capacity of police to deal with traffic control
will also be improved, through the provision of 400 mobile
radios and equipment for a central traffic-control center.
(b)  Geometric Improvements.  Many junctions require geometric
realignment to improve their efficiency; the project allows
for traffic islands. Improvements will involve, as appro-
priate, traffic curb realignment, displacement of center
lines and the provision of turning bays. In the design of
geometric improvements, considerable importance will be
given to pedestrians moving along and across the road, by
providing continuous footpaths of adequate width, by
eliminating steps, ditches and other obstacles and per-.
mitting access to and between bus and jeepney stops. 1/
Traffic Control Center
3.55      Specifications for the equipment to be installed at the traffic
control center will be written by consultants provided under the technical
assistance component. The system will be designed for control of 88 signals
in the first instance, with capability of expansion to some 200 signals in the
future.
3.56      Vehicle detectors at critical intersections will be required for
the measurement of traffic flows and queues and for detection of individual
vehicles at particular junctions. Also, on an experimental basis, ten
closed-circuit cameras will be provided.
3.57      The success of central control depends crucially on the inter-
connecting circuits. At lower levels of reliability (more than 24 hours
outage per circuit per year), such as in Manila, it is important for dupli-
cate circuits to be provided. To do this economically, it may be preferable
to connect individual junctions to local concentrators (master controllers)
and then to connect these concentrators to the central point.
3.58      The police will require information at the central point to be
displayed through a teleprinter, or similar device, which compiles a log of
all signal plan changes being made and of all faults in the system which are
detected. Information on the single phases being shown at any time may be
displayed on a wall map, or alternatively visual display units using TV
monitors may be used.
1/   A list of intersections to be improved is given on Map No. 11891.



- 46 -
Road Markings
3.59      Adequate road markings are almost non-existent.  Those that have
been provided are generally worn out, due to a combination of climatic
factors and low-quality cold paint. New markings using thermo-plastic paint
will be provided within 50 m of 200 junctions and for 200 crosswalks. An
ongoing program to introduce international traffic signs in Manila will be
augmented through the provision of signs at 200 sites within the area bounded
by the C-4.
Footpaths and Bus Shelters
3.60      Footpaths are grossly inadequate, often forcing persons to use
motorized transport even for relatively short distances, because there is
no protected route by which to walk. There is also underprovision of bus
shelters. Over 20 km of footways will be improved or provided, and 150
bus shelters will be installed within the area bounded by the C-4.



- 47 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
4.01      Implementation of the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat-Dagatan components
will be the responsibility of NHA/TFDPO into which the former TFDA has been
absorbed. Emphasis during project preparation was placed on the need to
improve inter-agency cooperation. To further this end, a Letter of
Instruction (LOI) has been prepared for Presidential signature that spells
out the relative responsibilities of the different agencies.
4.02      Construction of major roads and implementation of the traffic
engineering component will be undertaken by the DPH, who will employ con-
sultants for the detailed design and to assist in the supervision of the
major roads and bridges. Technical assistance will be provided to assist
in the design, preparation of bidding documents and supervision on the traf-
fic engineering work.
A. Procurement
4.03      Civil works contracts of more than $1 million each, for a total of
about $14 million, would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Because of the need to
undertake the work in small areas on a block-by-block basis, civil works
contracts of less than $1 million each, for a total of about $15 million, are
not suitable for international competitive bidding. These would be awarded
on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Bank. Contractors would be prequalified.
4.04      For equipment and material procurement except materials for house
improvement, all contracts above $100,000 would be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. A
preference limited to 15% of the CIF price of imported goods or the customs
duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the
evaluation of bids. Contracts below $100,000 and procurement of materials
for house improvement would be tendered on the basis of local competitive
bidding in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. For cottage
industry loans equipment would be procured according to DBP's procedure which
are considered satisfatory.
B. Disbursement
4.05      For the Tondo Foreshore, Dagat-Dagatan, offsite infrastructure,
major road and traffic engineering components, disbursements would be made
against 100% of the CIF cost of directly imported equipment, materials and
supplies; 65% against the ex-factory cost of locally-manufactured equipment,
materials and supplies; and 65% for imported equipment, materials and
supplies procured locally. For civil works, with the exception of the



- 48 -
outfall sewer, disbursements would be at the rate of 40% against certified
monthly progress payments or expenditures. For the outfall sewer, disburse-
ments would be made against 60% of expenditures. For consultants' services,
disbursements would be made against 100% of foreign costs, or 80% of total
expenditures. Disbursements for small-business loans would be made against
60% of the value of loans against supporting evidence of disbursments on a
quaterly basis.
4.06      Retroactive financing is recommended for about $2 million equiva-
lent for consultants' services provided between September 1975 and July 1976
and for approved works carried out since September 1975 at Dagat-Dagatan
and the Tondo Foreshore.
4.07      Disbursements are expected to be in accordance with the following
schedule:
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
($ millions)
IBRD       IBRD CUM.          CUMULATIVE
QUARTER     QUARTER ENDING         DISB.         DISB.             % DISB.
1         December 31            000            000               00
2         March 31, '76          000            000               00
3         June 30                000            000               00
4         September 30           2.06           2.06              06
5         December 31            1.56           3.62              12
6         March 31, '77          2.26           5.88              18
7         June 30                2.37           8.25              26
8         September 30           2.58          10.83              34
9         December 31            2.35          13.18              41
10         March 31, '78          2.71          15.89              50
11         June 30                2.32          18.21              57
12         September 30           2.08          20.29              63
13         December 31            2.14          22.43              70
14         March 31, '79          2.14          24.57              77
15         June 30                2.06          26.63              83
16         September 30           1.58          28.21              88
17         December 31            1.38          29.59              92
18         March 31, '80          1.20          30.79              96
19         June 30                0.52          31.31              97
20         September 30           0.23          31.54              98
21         December 31            0.38          31.92              99
22         March 31, '81          0.08          32.0              100
32.0
4.08      The project would be completed by March 1981.



- 49 -
C. Technical Assistance
4.09      Technical assistance will be provided to the NHA/TFDPO to assist
in project implementation and to provide a basis for institutional develop-
ment; to the DPWTC and the Department of Public Highways to improve trans-
port planning and traffic engineering and management in the metropolitan
area and to the DPWTC for the new Manila Metropolitan Commission (MMC) to
assist in establishing appropriate fiscal policies and programs.
NHA/TFDPO Management and Engineering
4.10      Because the TFDPO is a new organization without experience in
executing works of the type included in the project, substantial technical
assistance will be provided:
(a) Long-Term Engineering Support. Specialized engineering
services will be required to assist the TFDPO in super-
vising the implementation of civil works for the Tondo
upgrading and sites and services components of the proj-
ect. These services will involve a hydraulic engineer,
experienced in surface-water runoff, sewer flows and
coastal work, for approximately 6 months; a sanitary/
sewerage engineer for approximately 24 months; a works
engineer and a contracts officer for 3 years.
(b) Interim Engineering Support. In addition to the long-term
engineering assistance, short-term engineering consultant
services, amounting to approximately five man-months, are
provided for under the project to assist the TFDPO and
MWSS 1/ until the long-term consultants can be hired.
(c) Financial Management. Consultant services are required by
the NBA to assist in consolidating the accounts of the dis-
solved organizations, developing the organizational structure
of NHA, setting up a new accounting system, developing pro-
cedures for financial control, developing reporting systems
and establishing a management information system.
(d) Feasibility Studies. Approximately 60 man-months of multi-
disciplinary planning and engineering services for feasi-
bility studies of future projects in Dagat-Dagatan, other
parts of metropolitan Manila and other cities will be
provided.
1/   A short-term consultant is being retained by MWSS to advise on
the long-term options for the sewage outfall.



- 50 -
(e) Monitoring. Approximately 8 man-months of assistance which
will augment support is expected to be provided by the
International Development Research Council (IDRC) of
Canada.
Sewer Outfall
4.11      Short-term consultants have been engaged by MWSS to assist in
evaluating design options for the outfall sewer. Additional assistance
will be required for preparation of detailed designs.
4.12      Metro Manila Transport and Traffic Improvement
(a)  Land Use/Transport.  An urgent need exists to develop a
plan and program to guide the major transport investments
which are being contemplated for Manila during the next
ten years. Decisions, concerning the provision of trans-
port facilities, have been made in the past without regard
to the effect of these decisions on overall urban form,
and without regard for the differences in the cost of other
infrastructures associated with different development
patterns. One of the purposes of this study is to develop
a transportation program in the context of alternative land-
use options, taking into account the cost of infrastructure,
such as surface-water drainage, sewerage and water supply,
that will be required by the urban development stimulated
by transport investments along particular corridors. Con-
sultants will be engaged by DPWTC to develop:
-    policies and proposals for long-term transport
and development in metropolitan Manila;
-    short-term policies and proposals to effect
immediate improvements; and
-    an administrative/legal/financial framework for
project and policy implementation.
(b)  Traffic Engineering.  Consultants will be engaged by DPH to
assist in the design and implementation of the traffic
improvement component of the project. The consultants
will assist in:
-    installation  and maintenance of linked traffic
signal-controlled junctions close to and within
the confines of C-2;
-    development of priority measures for public
transport and improvement in facilities for the
bus and jeepney users;



- 51 -
improvement of facilities for pedestrians;
reduction in road accidents;
formulation of steps to be taken which lead to
an area traffic restraint system; and
institutional development and on-the-job training
of Government staff.
(c)  Training in Traffic Management.  To increase the number of
persons trained in traffic management and engineering, the
project includes visiting lecturerships at local universities
(four visits, three months each); special short course (two
courses over three years); and four overseas fellowships.
Metropolitan Manila Fiscal Administration
4.13      The establishment of a metropolitan form of government has created
an opportunity to deal with several important matters, which should serve to
improve the effectiveness of the local government in Manila:
(a) Metropolitan Finance and Administration. Expert assistance
will be provided through the project to the DPWTC for the
newly created MMC to:
-    review the existing revenue base of local jurisdictions
in the metropolitan area and propose alternative sources
of finance for the new metropolitan level of government
and the local jurisdictions;
-    recommend appropriate institutional arrangements for
provision of integrated municipal services; and
-    propose improvements to the administration of the
property tax through the development of a program
to better the classification of real property, upgrade
the quality of assessment, increase the collection of
billings and to improve completeness of cadastral
surveys.
In addition to these consulting services, an instructor in property valuation
will be provided for one year, and fellowships for training courses offered
to two professional valuers and eight assistant valuers. Finance of a two-
year program of cadastral surveys in the metropolitan area is also included.
National Transportation Planning
4.14      Approximately 60 man-months of consultants would be engaged by
DPWTC to:



- 52 -
prepare a transportation investment plan for 1977-80
and a national transport system study; and
help strengthen the planning capabilities of the
various Government transportation agencies.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.15      Monitoring of the upgrading, sites and services, health and
employment generation components of the project will be under the general
supervision of a special unit within the NHA set up for that purpose.
Monitoring of the transportation component will be the responsibility of
the PPDO. The monitoring will be designed to ensure that data essential to
project execution is provided to project managers, and that the design and
execution of future projects benefit from the experience of this project.
Sample surveys will be conducted for comparison with base line data that has
been compiled prior to project execution.  Technical assistance to the NHA
monitoring unit is expected to be provided in part by a grant from the Inter-
national Development Research Center (IDRC) of Canada.
4.16      The monitoring unit will review the adequacy and timeliness of
the management data collected by the NHA and TFDPO (e.g. contract defaults,
arrearages in rental/purchase payments) and, in addition, the unit will also
address the following special issues:
(a) Design and Execution. Appropriateness of lot, layout
and core unit designs, extent and impact of "reblocking"
during construction of tertiary infrastructure, impact
of house movements and community participation and
satisfaction with reblocking; adequacy of preparatory
measures for household movement; attitudes towards
individual water and sewer connections to each house;
effectiveness of bulk water metering and shared sewerage
facilities, where these are provided; effectiveness of
materials loan program, self-help construction and
technical assistance; use of self-help vs contract
labor for house completion; use of TFDPO-owned con-
struction equipment; appropriateness of level of
standard, including road, footpath, water, sewer and
community facilities, and social programs.
(b) Economic. Changes in family income and percentage of
income spent on shelter and other goods; changes in
employment levels and patterns; occupancy turnover in
units and income class of new residents; acceptance
of land tenure arrangements and restrictions on
property transfers; effectiveness of arrangements for
accommodating lowest income families; demand for rental
units; promotion of small contracting business.



- 53 -
(c) Health. Changes in health and nutrition in project
area.
(d)  Transportation.  Changes in modal split; passenger and
vehicle flow at 35 control stations; junction operating
levels; vehicle journey times along specified routes
for each mode; fleet expansion by class of vehicle.
4.17      Small-Scale Business.  Because of its experimental nature, a
special evaluation of the small-business loan program will be conducted
approximately one year after the initiation of activities of the MASICAP
technical assistance teams. This evaluation will focus on the effective-
ness of institutional arrangements, prospects for broadening sources of
finance, e.g. through private commercial banks and the economic, finan-
cial and social impact of the program. The evaluation will be undertaken
by a team comprising a financial analyst, an economist, a sociologist and
a project engineer. Approximately eight man-months of effort will be
required for this special evaluation.
E. Supervision
4.18      Supervision of the shelter components including related sanitary
engineering works 1/ on the part of the Government will be the responsi-
bility of the NHA/TFDPO, who will also undertake the monitoring of this
component. Consultants will be appointed to advise and assist RTHA in this
task. Government supervision of the major roads and traffic engineering
components will be undertaken by DPH and their consultants. The monitoring
of this component will be carried out by the PPDO. Supervision of the
sewage outfall and pumping station upgrading will be undertaken by MWSS,
assisted as necessary by consultants.
4.19      Supervision by the Bank staff will require approximately four-and-
a-half 2/ man-months of field effort per year for two years, followed by
two years at approximately two-and-a-half man-months.  For every three-and-
a-half months of field work, approximately nine man-months of office work
in Washington should be programmed.
1/   With the exception of the Tondo Sewage Pumping Station upgrading and
the sewage outfall sewer.
2/   Includes one-and-a-half man-months of consultants' time.



MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1975       1976           1977            1978           1979           1980
MAJOR COMPONENTS
3  4  1  23  4   1  2  3  4 1   2  3  4  1  23  4   1  23  4
TONDO FORESHORE UPGRADING
Land/Reclamation/Surveys          _       _  _   __
Civil Works                    =  =  -  =  =   =                 _  _       _
Community Facilities                              - _  _   =  =     _   _    =  _      _   _
Materials Loans & Core Units                  _   _      _  _  _  _   -  _  _           _  _
Small-Business Loans                          _   _                     - _      --
Experimental Area
Outfall Sewer
DAGAT- DAGATAN
Land Acquisition & Reclamation
Civil Works
Community Facilities
Materials Loans/Core Units &                      _
Relocation
MAJOR ROADS-                                                                     --
TRANSPORTATION & TRAFFIC                          _                  mm   -   -                          I
IMPROVEMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE              _  _           _       _   _  _  _        -                      =           =
World Bank-16063



- 55 -
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Cost Recovery
5.01      Mobilization of resources into the housing sector has been hindered
in the recent past by the belief that the poor cannot afford to pay for the
housing and services they would receive, and that large scale subsidies would
be required to initiate any substantial program. Thus, while housing has been
increasingly recognized as an urgent need and while squatting has increased
to potentially explosive levels, approaches towards a solution have been
tentative -- reflecting the belief that a major effort would involve an un-
supportable drain on the national budget.
5.02      Because finance has been one of the critical constrainits in the ex-
pansion of housing and related services, one of the prime objectives of the
Tondo project has been to demonstrate the possibility of providing urban ser-
vices to low-income groups on a generally non-subsidized basis. This was
sought through a variety of approaches, the most important of which was to
design into the project sources of revenue that could be used to offset
charges to the low-income families now living in the area, and thus make it
affordable by them. Project charges to beneficiaries, therefore, have been
offset by the amount of revenue anticipated from the sale and lease of 18.6 ha
of commercial and industrial properties developed in the project area. In
addition, project design was based on the use of self-help construction and
high densities and small-lot sizes.
5.03      In practice, full cost recovery, when applied to large urban dev-
elopment, requires interpretation. It must be limited by established tra-
ditions in financing certain "off-site" and other public services such as
major roads and schools, which are not usually paid for directly through
housing charges. The general principle adopted was that those costs normal-
ly borne by private developers in a private housing scheme would be borne
by the Tondo project unit and passed on to beneficiaries. Other expenses
that normally would be incurred by Government agencies in support of private
housing schemes will also be borne by these agencies when supporting NHA pro-
jects.
Recovery from Beneficiaries
5.04      Cost recovery in Tondo and Dagat-Dagatan will generally be through
25-year leases, with an option to purchase after 5 years. For families who
had acquired leases under previous legislation (mostly in old Tondo), cost
recovery will be through a special assessment tax.
5.05      Monthly lease payments (and assessment taxes) would be set to cover
development costs at 12% interest over a 25-year period, after a:Llowing for



- 56-
revenues obtained from industrial and commercial areas developed under the
project. After five years, families with leases will be given options to
purchase at prevailing market values. This "two-tiered" arrangement will
permit the poorest families to rent property at a price they can afford, while
also permitting those families who are better off to become owners.
5.06      A special feature of the lease will be its transferability.  Lease
holders may sell their leases should they decide to move. It can be expected
that over time the present value of payments will fall further below the
market value of the lease, providing a type of capital appreciation to lease
holders. Current experience in the Philippines is that arrearages in payments
in Government rental projects are quite high, while arrearages under hire
purchase schemes are almost negligible. In this case, leases will become an
increasingly valuable asset and will have many similarities to ownership;
it is expected that there will be a considerable incentive to occupiers to
continue to make monthly payments and to invest in and improve their pro-
perty.
5.07      In Dagat-Dagatan, costs would be further offset by the Philippine
Port Authority (PPA) and the DPH, which are implementing respectively a port
expansion project at the International Port and major road projects in the
Tondo area which have necessitated the resettlement of families to Dagat-
Dagatan. This latter offset has been determined by calculating the unit cost
of upgrading in situ (which was a ieasible option) and the unit cost of the
sites and services development at Dagat-Dagatan; and charging the PPA and
the DPH the incremental cost for each family affected by DPH and PPA pro-
jects.  This would enable the NHA as a matter of equity to charge identical
lease prices in both the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat-Dagatan, even though
unit costs at Dagat-Dagatan are higher than the unit upgrading costs at the
Tondo Foreshore.
Calculation of Monthly Charge
5.08      Table V-1 shows the calcuLlation of the monthly charge to benefi-
ciaries. Interest during construction and institutional overhead costs have
been added to project development costs. The recoverable and non-recoverable
costs are identified in Tables V-2 and V-3. Community facilities, such as
schools and clinics, were excluded, i.e. considered non-recoverable, and water
mains and stabilization ponds were only partially allocated to the project
since they serve other populations as well.  Total allocated project costs
amount to P 209.49 million. From this is deducted P 100 million, which is
the current value of gross revenues expected from industrial and commercial
areas, and P 18 million which is the cost offset due from the port expansion
and major road construction. The net amount chargeable to residential areas
is P 91 million, which is an average cost of P 89.5/sq m. At 12% over 25
years, this is equivalent to a monthly charge of P 0.95/sq m.



-57-
MANILA URBAN DEVELORMENT PROJECT
Table V-1:  INDICATIVE CALCULATION OF MONTHLY AMORTIZATION
OF RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPIENT COSTS
Summary
Total Gross Development Costs/l                        P millions
1) Tondo Upgrading (see Table V-2)                       124.95
2) Tondo New Units (see Table V-2)                        23.07
3) Dagat-Dagatan (see Table V-3)                          39.87
Sub-Total                                             187.89
4) TFDPO Administration Costs/2                            9.70
5) Interest During Construction/3                         11.90
Total                                                 209.49
Less:
Differential Loading from Industrial                   69.00
Differential Loading from Commercial                   31.02
Contribution from Line Agencies
a)  Port Authority                                  12.10
b)  DPH                                              6.00
Total                                                 118.12
Net amount chargeable to rqeidential area is approximately P 91.37 million.
Total net residential area- is approximately 1,021,000 sq m.
Average Cost per sq m = P 89.5.
Monthly amortziation is P0.95/sq m at 12% for 25 years.
/1  Includes contingencies and cost of developing approximately 5.7 ha
industrial property in Tondo, 3.5 ha in Dagat-Dagatan and 9.4L ha of
commercial property along major roads.
/2  At 6% of construction costs, excluding land and reclamation at Dagat-Dagatan.
73  At 8-1/2 per year, or 14.7% of borrowed fands.
Includes only area within private property boundaries.
Zi This monthly charge covers all project capital costs and administrative
costs of TFDPO. Other household expenses, such as property taxes and
utility charges, will be paid separately by residents to the institutions
involved. The complete analysis of affordability by individual households
is contained in paras 5.15 through 5.17.
April 1976



-58-
MANILA UTRBAN DEVELOPMENT FROJECT
Table V-2: COST ALLOCATION: TONDO
The following project costs, which include physical contingencies and the
cost of developing industrial and commercial property, are to be recovered
from leases and special assessment fees:
P (millions)
New Units
on Vacant
Upgrading    Land Plus
of        Experi7intal    Total
Built-Up        Area-          Tondo
Land Acquisition
a)  For Roads, Open Spaces, etc.        0.68           -             0.68
b)  DPH Compound 45,000 sq m             -            8.40           8.40
Fisherman's Channel Reclamation             -            1.34           1.34
Cadastral Survey                           0.86           -             0.86
Surface-Water Drainage                    15.24          1.50          16.74
Internal Roads and Reinstatement          24.06          1.70          25.76
Water Supply                              15.76          1.55          17.31
Sewerage                                  41h33          4.10          45.43
Electrical and Street Lighting             0.62          0.07           0.69
Core Units                                  -            1.81           1.81
Multipurpose Barangay Centers              0.84           -             0.84
Total-4                                   99.39         20.47         119.86
Price Escalation at 10% per annum         25.56          2.60          28.16
Total                                    124.95         23.07         148.02
The following non-recoverable costs are not included in lease payments or
assessment fees:
Small-Business Loan Fund (to be repaid separately)                   2.50
Materials Loan  Fund (to be repaid separately)                       9.60
Social Infrastructure:  Schools and Health Centers                  25.87
(allocated to line agencies),
Fisherman's Channel Reclamation/L  (allocated to                      .66
construction of C-2)
/1  Where an exact breakdown was not available, it was assumed that 91%
of costs were for upgrading and 9% for new units.
/2 Total cost of reclaiming the Fisherman's Channel is P 2 million. Because
about one third of the reclaimed channel will be used as roadbed for the
C-2, one third of the reclamation cost is attributed to the cost of the road.
/ Includes cost of industrial commercial land.
Includes physical contingencies and the costs of the experimental area.
April 1976



-59-
MANILA URBAN DEVELOR4ENT PROJECT
Table V-3: COST ALLOCATION - DAGAT-DAGATAN
(P millions)
Dagat-Dagatan (Phase I) - 2,000 New Residential Units
The following project costs which include physical contingencies and the
the cost of developing industrial commercial property, are to be recovered
from leases and special assessment fees:
Land                                              1.27
ReclamationL                                     14.25
Surveys                                           0.26
Core Units                                        4.67
Water Supply.                                     3.26
Stabilization Pond                                0.80
Sewerage                                          3.60
Circulation System                                5.11
Electricity and Street Lighting                   0.17
Drainage                                          1.63
Multipurpose Barangay Center/2                    0.15
TotaJ42                                          35.02
Price Escalation                                  4.85
Total                                            39.87
The following project costs are not included in lease payments or assessment fees:
Materials, Loans (to be repaid separately)
Transport to Site (to be charged to Port Authority and DPH)
Other Social Infrastructure.0 d     6.82 million to be charged
to line agencies)
Stabilization Pond (50% allocated to other beneficiaries)
Water Supply(P 0.839 million for offsite supply chargeable to
other beneficiaries)
/1 Excluding reclamation for R-10, C-2 and spine road.
/2 Multipurpose centers charged to residents; schools
and clinics not charged.
/3 Including physical contingencies.
April 1976



- 60 -
5.09      The P 0.95/sq m per month represents the average charge.  In prac-
tice, the TFDPO plans to charge the better located lots, i.e. those on corners
or major roads, and the larger lots a higher amount per sq m than the average
charge. Lots that are not as well located and lots that are generally smaller
will be charged a correspondingly lower rate per sq m.
Revenues from Industrial/Commercial Properties
5.10      Revenues from an industrial estate in Tondo and Dagat-Dagatan, and
from commercial properties along major arterial roads, will be an imDortant
source of revenue for differentially loading project costs and thus bene-
fitting residential properties:
Industrial. A total of 9.2 ha of new industrial property will be
developed through the project, 5.7 in Tondo and 3.5 in Dagat-Dagatan. It has
been estimated by the Manila City Assessor that the market value of this
industrial property after development in 1977-78 will be P 750/sq m. If sold
at market value, revenues would be P 69 mi'l'ion.
Commercial. There are approximately 9.4 ha of major commercial
property in the Tondo along the C-1, C-2 and R-10 roads. The market value
of this property after development is estimated to be approximately P 750
per sq m. Because the R-10 and C-2 will cut through what are at present
very low-income residential areas, it will be difficult for NHA/TFDPO to
recover full revenue from these properties immediately. One possibility
is for TFDPO to offer residents in these areas leases that require payments
computed at only residential rates for four or five years, but which would
increase to the market value at commercial uses after this period. Families
who could not pay commercial rates after five years would be offered resi-
dential lots in Dagat-Dagatan. Assuming that revenues in the early years
were below market value, the stream of revenues actually received by NHA/TFPDO
would have a present value equivalent to approximately P 330 per sq m (instead
of the market value of P 750). On this basis, revenue available from the com-
mercial strip along major roads is equivalent to 9.4 ha at P 330 per sq m, or
P 31.02 million.
Revenues from PPA and DPH
5.11      Port Authority.  During the first phase of development, approxi-
mately 1,350 families will be moved from the International Port area. Al-
though it would have been technically feasible to upgrade these squatter
sites in place, it is necessary to relocate these families to Dagat-Dagatan
because of the port expansion. Based on an estimate of P 9,000 as the incre-
mental cost of providing a new residential unit (see para 1.34), i.e. the



- 61 -
amount over and above the cost of upgrading and a cost of P 100 per family
for movement to the new site, the Port Authority would provide P 12.10 mil-
lion.
5.12      DPH.  Approximately 670 families will be affected by the construc-
tion of the R-10 and C-2 roads. Using the same reasoning as above, the DPH
should be asked to contribute approximately P 6.00 million. The TFDPO is also
reclaiming the Fisherman's Channel that will form the roadbed undler part of
the C-2 road. The estimated cost of this reclamation attributable to the
road is P 0.66 million. The total DPH contribution is thus P 6.66 million.
B. Affordability
Income Patterns and Expenditure on Housing
5.13      A survey of families in the Tondo Foreshore, conducted by the Tondo
Foreshore Development Authority (TFDA) in 1974, provides a comprehensive
picture of income and expenditure patterns. Median family income in the
Tondo Foreshore in 1974 was estimated at approximately P 320 ($47) per month.
Tondo Foreshore families currently spend an average of P 28 per month, or less
than 10% of income on shelter. For metropolitan Manila, this percentage is
approximately 18%. The lower expenditure in the Tondo is, in large part,
attributable to the fact that most squatters, who constitute 70% of the total
population, are not currently paying for land they occupy. Also, since this
data shows only actual housing expenditures, it does not include imputed rents
for those structures and lots that are owned individually, fully paid for, and
occupied by the owner. Like most surveys of actual housing expenditure, this
survey, therefore, tends to underestimate the percentage that families could
spend on shelter, since it includes many families with no current shelter
expenditures. Table V-4 shows the distribution of monthly family income for
Tondo and for metropolitan Manila.



-62-
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table V-4: DIVISION OF MONTHLY FAMILY INCOME
Cumuative Percentages of Familes
Metro Manila                 Tondo Foreshore
Less than (.P/mo)         1971   1976   1978             1974   12976  2197
100                  -      -      -               12      11     10
150                  -      -      -               17      15     12
200                  10      6      4              26      22     16
300                  32     18     11              46     40      30
400                  46     32      21             62      58     45
500                  56     44      33             74      69     57
600                  64     52     43              80      75     68
700                  71     59     50              85     81      76
800                  77     65     57              89      86     80
1,000                  86     75      71             -       91     88
Median Monthly
Family Income:
P/mo                  435    580    700             320    360    435
A.4 @68                       77     93              47      48     58
Notes
1. Metropolitan Manila data was based on Journal of Philippine Statistics -
1968, and BCS Special Release No. 139, as quoted in IBRD Urban Sector Survey,
Manila, January 1975; data on 1971 income was adjusted on basis of 17.5%
increase in unskilled wage index between 1971 and 1974; adjustment from
1974-1976 was based on assumed 6% per year increase in nominal wages. The
adjustment for 1976-1978 was based on an assumed 10% increase in nominal
wages, in line with assumptions concerning other price trends.
2. Tondo Foreshore data for 1974 was from TFDA "Socio-Economic Survey Report";
adjustment from 1974--976 was based on assumed 6% per year increase in nominal
wages. Income below the 50th percentile was based on an average of recorded
expenditure and income.
3.  At the prevailing exchange rate of  $l.00=P 643 in 1971;  '$l1.00=  6.78 from
1972-1975; and   $1.00=P7.5 since July 1975.
April 1976



- 63 -
5.14      A reasonable basis for estimating the ability of Tondo Foreshore
families to pay for shelter that corresponds with international experience
would be to assume that families below the 25th percentile could afford to
spend about 18% of income; families between the 25-60th percentile might be
willing to pay 20%; and families above this level could pay 25% of income.
Affordability of Housing to be Provided Under the Project
5.15      Table V-4 shows that a Tondo Foreshore family at the 15th percen-
tile, with a monthly income of about P 160 in 1978, could afford a 30-sq m
lot, if prices were pegged at about P 0.95/sq m per month, or a total of
P 28.5 (18% of income). 1/ There are approximately 1.5 families per structure
in the Tondo Foreshore, indicating that a high level of renting and sharing
of facilities takes place. Rental of rooms and sharing of lots among low-
income families, who otherwise would not be able to afford to make payments,
is expected to remain a common feature in the provision of serviced residential
units. If the current average population density is assumed to be maintained,
a 50-sq m lot could be afforded by 1.5 families at about the 17th percentile.
5.16      Affordability of project benefits by the great majority of exist-
ing Tondo Foreshore residents has been a central feature of project design.
It is estimated that a price of P 2.12/sq m per month would cover the full
development costs. After adjusting for the internal financial transfer
provided as a result of the sale and/or lease of commercial and industrial
land, a price of P 0.95/sq m per month will cover full development costs. On
completion of the project, the average population density will be slightly
reduced, and the average lot size will be 60 sq m, housing 1.5 families,
compared to 50 sq m before the project. Expenditure for housing on a 60-sq m
lot is expected to be P 74.5 per month, broken down as follows:
P per month
Lease payment                                     57.0
Water (and sewerage) rate 2/                       7.5
Property tax                                      10.0
Total                                             74.5
1/   This figure excludes water and property tax charges which are treated in
paragraph 5.17.
2/   Assumes bulk metering.



- 64 -
On this basis, average family expenditure on housing will be P 49.6 ($6.62)
per month in 1978, 1/ compared with P 28 ($3.73) per month in 1974 2/. This
is a real increase of P 8.6 ($1.15).
5.17      Lot sizes under the project will be as small as 30 sq m.  Although
sharing of lots does not normally occur on lots of this size, it is a com-
mon feature on lots of 40 sq m and above. Total expenditures for housing on a
40-sq m lot is expected to be P 52.5 per month, broken down as follows:
P per month
Lease payment                                     38.00
Water (and sewerage) rate                          7.50
Property tax                                       7.00
Total                                             52.50
On this basis, average family expenditure on housing will be P 35 per month.
Table V-4 indicates that a family could afford the 60-sq m lot if they are in
the 25th percentile and above; the 40-sq m lot if they are in the 15th per-
centile and above. The vast majority of persons with incomes below the 15th
percentile are either transients whose average length of stay in the Tondo
Foreshore is only three months (8% of total Tondo population are in this
category) or renters of small rooms. Although these persons are not expected
to benefit directly from the project, they are expected to receive substantial
indirect benefits. The people of the Tondo possess very high levels of com-
munity spirit and social activism. Barangay leaders, social workers and local
community organizations are expected to assist the NHA in facilitating the
sharing and renting of rooms and plots in Tondo and Dagat-Dagatan after devel-
opment by the very poorest persons in the community (i.e. those below the 15th
1/   At 1978 prices.
2/   Although the estimate of expenditure on "housing" contained in the 1974
Tondo household expenditure survey is intended to include expenditures
on water, it apparently only includes water expenditures for the 16% of
families (mostly in Old Tondo) who had access to piped water. Between
65% and 75% of the families do not have either piped water or a
private well and must purchase water. When bought from vendors, inde-
pendent estimates of water expenditures indicate that a typical family
must spend between P 20 and P 60 per month for water, depending on the
rate of usage and proximity to a water source. Considerable financial
savings to the lowest income families are therefore expected through the
provision of piped water; these are not completely reflected in the
survey figures.



- 65 -
percentile of Tondo family income). Following this effort, any residual
families who cannot afford to rent space in Tondo or Dagat-Dagatan would be
offered plots at one of the other sites being developed in Metro Manila where
the level of services and related charges are lower. Administral-ive arrange-
ments for household relocation, assignment of leases, and other aspects related
to property transfer will be closely monitored by the NHA and reviewed period-
ically.
C. Demand for Shelter and Replicability
5.18      In 1971, the Metropolitan Manila Area (MMA) had a population of
4.4 million. The population of Metro Manila Area is growing at approximately
4.9% per year, and in 1975 the population was estimated at approximately 5.5
million persons. The area is growing by about a quarter of a million persons
per year, or between 40,000-45,000 new families per year. If a public housing
program were to address the needs of families in the 15-70th percentiles
of income, then approximately 20,000 new units per year would have to be
provided, even assuming that current citywide average densities of 1.3 fami-
lies per structure were maintained. In addition to these needs, a shelter
program must also comprehensively upgrade living conditions for the estimated
30-35% of the population currently living in slum and squatter areas. Such a
program of addressing existing slums would involve both upgrading and also
additional new units, the latter for families squatting in areas of important
infrastructure expansion.
5.19      An illustrative 10-year shelter program for metropolitan Manila was
prepared by a Bank mission, the objective of which is to demonstrate the
financial replicability of the concepts incorporated into the first Manila
Urban Development Project. This program seeks to eliminate the shelter
backlog within a 25-year period and includes both new residentia:L areas and
comprehensive upgrading of existing slum areas. It indicates that a first
five-year program, involving the construction of approximately 35,000 new
sites and services units, and a program of slum upgrading reaching approximate-
ly 1 million persons, could be achieved through a total capital commitment
of P 780 million ($105 million) at 1975 prices. This could be financed
through a variety of sources including Government equity and local and inter-
national borrowing. To the extent that mortgage finance could be provided at
the retail level from conventional sources, the need for Government financing
would be considerably reduced.
5.20      The key provision of this scheme is the use of full cost recovery
from beneficiaries. With such cost recovery, the bridging financing required
in any one year would be significantly reduced. For example, in 1980, to
cover the gap between annual construction costs in that year and annual loan
repayments, $35 million ($45 million after adjustment for inflation) would
be required. This financing could be provided from a number of sources:
equity contributions by the National Government, local market borrowing and
foreign assistance. If shared equally among these sources, the burden would



- 66 -
be manageable. While this analysis is very tentative, it does provide a
strong indication that the Government could make a sizeable impact on the
housing plight of lower-income groups without putting undue strain on the
national budget.
5.21      One of the first tasks being undertaken by the newly-created NHA,
in cooperation with the Task Force on Human Settlements and the NEDA, is the
consideration of alternative programs and financial plans for the housing
sector.
D. Project Cash Flow
5.22      NIA has engaged consultants to assist it in consolidating the ac-
counts of the agencies which were absorbed into it and to develop a finan-
cial accounting and management system. Because the work was not completed
at the time of appraisal, it was not possible to conduct a financial analysis
of the new organization. Table V-5 contains a rough projection of the cash
flow associated with the Tondo and Dagat-Dagatan components of project.



-67-
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INDICATIVE PROJECT CASH FLOW
Table V-5 TONDO AND DAGAT-DAGATAN COMPONENTS
(P millions)
Total
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984 , 1985   (1975-1985)
Sources
Government Equity                32.90  20.49  41.10  30.95  19.97  11.46   0.00    -          -      -      -
Loan Disbursements                 -    22.22  34.25  32.73  28.37  114.9   0.61    -          -      -      -
Receipts from Sale/Lease
Residential                   -       -      -       -     2.37   8.91  12.83  13,07  13.30  13.54  60.00
Commercial/2                  -       -      -             5.oo  10.50  13.50  13.50  13.50  12.20  12.30
Transfer Payments
from Other Agencies
DPH                           -      6.00    -       -      -      -       -      -       -      -      -
Philippines Port Authority   -    12.10    -         -      -      -       -      -              -      -
Education, Health, etc.       -      1.92   .-58   3.34   2.84   4.12   0.31    -         -      -      -
OtheA                                             -       .50    .50   1.60   2.00   2.00   2.00   2.00   2.00
32.90  58.12  74.50  64.64  58.43  48.08  28.94  28.57  28.80  27.74  74.30         451.61
Application
Project Expenditure               4.50  33.69  51.48  48.07  44.89  18.20   1.23    -          -      -       -
Tondo                               -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -      -      -       -
Dagat-Dagatan                    24.62  16.08  11.90   4.16    -         -      -      -       -      -       -
Technical Assistance               1.28   4.35   6.02   6.71   7.32   8.15    -         -      -      -       -
Loan Repayment'4                    -      -      -       -      -    17.33  17.33  17.33  17.33  17.33  17.33
Administration and Overhead Z    2.50   3.00   4.00   4.00   4.00   3.00   3.00   2.00   1.00   1.00   1.00
OtherL6                             -     1.00   1.10   1.20   1.30   1.40   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00
32.90  58.12  74.50  64.14  57.51  48.08  22.56  20.33  19.33  19.33  19.33         438.13
/1 The lease rate is assumed to be P 0.95/sq m per month,
increasing by 2% per year. Defaults are estimated at
8%. Residential property is valued at P 275/sq m for
fully-serviced lot at 1975 prices. The 1985 value
would be P 448/sq m, assuming an increase of 5% per
year. It is assumed that 10% of properties will be
sold at prevailing market rates after the fifth year
of the lease.
/2 Industrial leases are estimated to provide annual
revenue at 10% of capital value estimated at P 750/sq m
in 1978. Leases are for fiLe years, with revenues
increasing to prevailing rates at end of period. It is
assumed that 10% of the total of 7.2 ha are sold each
year for ten years at prevailing prices.
13 Income from fees, licenses, materials loan and small-
business loans.
/   The loan from the Government to the NHA is assumed to
be for 20 years, including a 4-year grace period at
8-% interest.
/5 Estimated to average 6% of project construction costs
over a period of years.
/6 Contracts, services, etc.
April 1976



- 68 -
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Project Benefits
6.01      The project will be the first slum upgrading project of the
Philippine Government and, as such, is expected to significantly influence
the policies and program of the newly-created NHA.
6.02      The shelter component of the project would generate a wide range
of benefits, including improvements in living conditions for the 180,000
persons currently living in the Tondo slum. This will be reflected most
significantly by offering leasehold land tenure, with options to purchase
the freehold; in improvement in health, brought about by the provision of
sewerage and piped water; control of flooding and stagnant surface water;
and programs of health and nutrition. In particular, this component will
benefit young people by providing them with better opportunities to lead
a fuller life.
6.03      Permanent employment opportunities in the project will be
enhanced in three ways:
(a) through the provision of 9.2 ha of new industrial estate
property in Tondo and Dagat-Dagatan, which will provide
additional employment for approximately 800 persons;
(b) through the provision of credit 1/ and technical assistance
to small businesses in the project areas, which will
generate direct employment for approximately 200 persons; and
(c) through skills training associated with project con-
struction activities.
6.04      In addition, the provision of sewerage facilities and health
programs in the project area should greatly improve the productive capacity
of the approximately 20-30% of the adult males who are suffering from debi-
litating diseases, such as diarrhea, tuberculosis, anemia and broncho-pneumonia,
and the 85% of the adult males suffering from one or more different worm
infestations. Direct employment generated by project construction activi-
ties is very roughly estimated to be approximately 12,000 man-years. The
project will also have a beneficial impact on land use in metropolitan
Manila, through the increased densification of the urban core that will be
brought about by development at Dagat-Dagatan. This will tend to reduce
high infrastructure costs associated with the low density development that
has characterized Manila's growth to date.
1/   This will give the Government experience in dealing directly with the
informal sector, and the knowledge gained will be most useful in develop-
ing this type of credit throughout Manila and other urban areas.



- 69 -
6.05      The benefits of the transportation component involve increases
in efficiency of the existing road network, through improvement of the
capacity of key junctions and also through provision of important links in
the circumferential-radial road network of the city that will serve to
divert port-related traffic away from the heavily congested urban center.
B. Economic Analysis
Upgrading, Sites and Services, and Industrial Estate Development
6.06      The measurement of economic benefits for the slum upgrading, sites
and services, and industrial estates components of the project is based upon
estimates of increases in property values brought about by the provision of
infrastructure and other services. While this approach must be subject to
several qualifications, since certain project benefits such as those that
are health-related may be only very imperfectly reflected in property values,
it does provide a useful indicator of the minimum economic value of project
outputs.
6.07      A comparison of land values in localities similar to the project
sites was conducted by the Manila City Assessor. Based on this analysis and
discussions with private real estate appraisors, it was estimated that under
present market conditions fully-serviced residential lots in the Tondo and
Dagat-Dagatan areas, such as would exist after development, would sell
at approximately P 275/sq m. Residential land values currently average
approximately P 150/sq m in Tondo, and land in Dagat-Dagatan is currently
valued at approximately P 5/sq m.
6.08      For lots designated for commercial and industrial use, it was
estimated that market values after provision of services would fall within
the range of P 380-600, depending on location and constraints in on-lot
development. Of the industrial land in Tondo, 5.7 ha will be land newly
reclaimed from the sea along the R-10 right-of-way, having a value of
approximately P 600/sq m after development.
6.09      Costs included in the economic analysis include site preparation,
construction, on-site infrastructure, an allocated share of off-site infra-
structure, materials for house improvements, imputed values of self-help
labor, project administration and physical contingencies. 1/ Lan,d prior
1/   The financial analysis through which indicative lease payments were
determined included substantial cost offsets from industrial/commercial
properties to enhance affordability by the lowest income families. The
economic analysis of residential areas include the total cost attributable
to the residential areas prior to this financial offset.



- 70 -
to development was priced at the market value, which was considered to
reflect opportunity costs. Adjustments were made to project inputs to
eliminate taxes and duties. All costs and benefits were estimated in
terms of 1975 prices.
6.10      Because development of the land of the Tondo Foreshore could
take place in several different (and mutually exclusive) ways, the econo-
mic analysis was divided into two parts: first, the question of whether
the proposed development option is the best one among feasible alternatives
was addressed; and second, the economic rate of return in comparison to the
situation "without" the project was computed.
6.11      Choice Among Alternatives.  To determine whether the proposed
development of land in the Tondo Foreshore is the most appropriate develop-
ment option, two alternatives were compared. Alternative A involved up-
grading of the existing slum in situ, with resettlement of residents held
to the minimum required to permit installation of basic infrastructure.
Alternative B, which was the original development proposal of the Govern-
ment, involved a more substantial resettlement of residents to the nearby
site of Dagat-Dagatan, and the conversion of the Tondo land thus freed
into commercial and industrial uses. Other possible alternatives, which
involved relocation of residents to sites more distant than Dagat-Dagatan,
were ruled out as being not only highly disruptive socially but politically
infeasible, given the history of Government promises of secure land tenure
that had been made to residents of Tondo.
6.12      In the comparison of the alternatives, the net present value of
Alternative A, when cost and benefit streams were discounted at the opportu-
nity cost of capital (taken to be 15%), was very much greater than the net
present value of Alternative B. This is because the value of land at
Dagat-Dagatan is approximately the same as the value of land in the Tondo,
while the cost of relocating existing residents to the new sites and
services development is higher than the costs of upgrading in situ.
6.13      Economic Rate of Return.  The economic rate of return of the
project, in comparison to the situation "without the project", was also
computed, using, as above, estimates of increases in property values
resulting from provision of infrastructure as a measure of benefits. For
this purpose, the Tondo upgrading and the sites and services development
at Dagat-Dagatan were combined, since the latter is the relocation site for
families displaced from Tondo and is an inseparable project component.
The economic rate of return computed for this component is 21%. The rate
of return computed for the industrial/commercial development in the proj-
ect area is 40%. With foreign exchange and unskilled labor shadow-
priced respectively at 110% and 50% of actual prices to better reflect
opportunity costs, the economic rate of return for the shelter component
increases to 24.5%, while the rate of return for the industrial/commercial
development increases to 42%.



- 71 -
Transportation Component
6.14      The links in the circumferential and radial roads finarLced under
the project, i.e. R-10 from C-1 to the spine road in Dagat-DagataLn and a
segment of C-2 were analyzed on the basis of metropolitanwide traffic flows.
The quantified benefits arising from the proposed roads are the savings
in traffic costs of all diverted traffic from their present routes, mostly
in the Central Business District (CBD) to the project roads. Cost savings
are subdivided into running cost, fixed cost and time savings. Traffic
divertable from existing roads to project roads were estimated using a traffic
diversion curve; projected jeepney and bus passenger were converted to vehicular
traffic using average passenger occupancy of 6 and 24 for jeepney and buses
respectively. Generated traffic was estimated separately from traffic that
would take place without the roads. Traffic data was based on the results of
the origin-destination survey conducted by DPH, under the superviision of
Japanese consultants in 1971. An update of the survey covering major thorough-
fares, semi-major roads and selected minor roads was conducted irn 1974. The
economic cost included all land acquisition, construction, maintenance,
engineering and operating costs and was adjusted for taxes and duties.
6.15      Based on the above assumptions, the economic rate of return for the
R-10 link between C-1 and C-2 is 23%; the economic rate of return for the
link between C-2 and the Dagat-Dagatan spine road is 24%; and the economic
rate of return for the C-2 is 14%.
C. Distribution of Benefits
6.16      The project will directly benefit the 180,000 persons residing in
the Tondo slum, who include many of the poorest families in Mani:La. The
median 1974 family income in this area is P 320/mo ($42.6/mo).
6.17      The benefits of the transportation component would be more evenly
distributed, but would still be quite heavily weighted towards low-income
families. The portion of the R-10 constructed under the project would not
only provide for more efficient distribution of port traffic, but would
provide critical access to the Dagat-Dagatan site, which is planned as a
major residential area for low-income families.
VII. CONCLUSIONS, RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS
7.01      The project represents the first attempt to tackle some of the
dominant problems facing Metro Manila and, if successful, should demonstrate
the feasibility of starting a process which will ultimately upgrade the 1.5-
2 million persons currently living in blighted conditions and help the Gov-
ernment develop institutions and formulate policies and programs which deal
with urban growth.



- 72 -
7.02      Intervention in a major metropolis, at this level, is not without
its risks. The institutions are newly created and inexperienced in the type
of work proposed; they will require substantial technical assistance to ensure
successful project execution.
7.03      The project will also require a high level of cooperation between
different agencies of the Government. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements
have been incorporated to assist management in the execution of this project
and design of future projects. In addition, supervision, at least in the
initial stages of project implementation, will require a heavy commitment
of Bank staff time.
7.04      Agreement was reached during negotiations on the following:
(a) a satisfactory plan of organization for the NHA, (para 2.04);
(b) arrangements for filling key staff positions in the NHA
(para 2.04);
(c) the establishment in NHA and staffing of a project monitoring and
evaluation system (para 2.10);
(d) arrangements for cost recovery from project beneficiaries
(paras 5.04-5.12); and
(e) arrangements for Government to provide funds to cover incre-
mental cost of moving fanilies on accounting of Port ex-
pansion and major road construction in the Tondo area (paras
5.11 and 5.12).
7.05      In addition, the following events are stipulated as conditions of
effectiveness of the proposed loan:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ments between the Government and NHA and the Government
and MWSS (para 1.39);
(b) the appointment of suitably qualified engineering consult-
ants to assist TFDPO in completing detailed designs and to
supervise construction (para 2.07); and
(c) the ratification of the Letter of Instruction, spelling
out the relative responsibilities of the Government
agencies (para 2.12).
7.06      With agreements reached above, the project is suitable for a Bank
loan of $32.0 million.
May 5, 1976



* lll _a 11 | r W - W ..,. 
R Itt F 0 .- s. I 3I
TY P IC AL C O ND IT I ONS I N T HE T ON DO F OR ES H ORE (1)






S
T Y P I C A L  C O N D I T I O N S  I N  T H 'T O N D O  F- O R E S H O R E  (2)






EXAMPLE OF EXISTING CONDITIONS
PLAN
6.00rn                    3.40m.
FALUCET
SLEEPING AREA
WOOD FLOOR
z
EXISTING CHB      -
PARTY WALL                                                            <
P          -        EARTH FILL FLOOR  
SLEEPING AREA
SMALL
SALVAGED G 1. AND/                             ENTRY
WOOD BOARDS
PATHWAY  CRISTOBAL
* STRUCTURAL GUALITY        LOWN
* NO, OF OCCUPANTS          14 OCCUPANTS (2 FAMILIES)
* APPROX. FLOOR AREA     - 56.40 SO. MTS.
*MATERIALS OF WHICH
STRUCTURES ARE BUILT   - SALVAGED
World Bank-15231(R)
PICTURE
_                   ~






EXAMPLE OF EXISTING CONDITIONS, NEW TONDO PILOT AREA:
1. Location                                          C  IDA
0l00
LDLZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
HERBOSA
Some houses along the Estero will be affected by the filling of the Estero and the
right-of-way of the C2 road.
2. Plan
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vcn spac 6                                  *-   F   .5
Number of occupants: 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ero s trg
GI sheets &                            2 GtDe..u 
Ownership ~ ~     ~    slvge                  & wownedare
wroposdd Improvrdents
3.fleoorintgfn
corner alongathelEstero
Proposed Bmpro1e2ents
- flooring ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    fl-n
- roofing ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     SAI-AR
- walls ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    STF
op- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~WrdSoh123R






EXAMPLE OF EXISTING CONDITION, OLD TONDO PILOT AREA
1. Location                        -
ASUNCION ST.
I-IEI               I
0                                                                              El0C 
'N               liii                   20 ~~~~~             ~ ~~~02506I
JUAN NOLASCO ST.
2. Plan
3.50         ItS-  1,  .          3.50
KIT.                                  KIT. _
DINING    DINING                    t      Notes:
_ !e1- _ _ _ Mt4t~~~~~~~~~eaurnunts in Meters
T&B: Toilet and Eath
_ -g LIVING  LIVING         _ _      ti
GROUND FLOOR
LIIN SLEE-'NG  SLEE ING
SECOND FLOOR
3. DOeo-iption
House No. 20-0256 - 2 dwelling units
I Number of occupants: 7 ocpants - 1 fomily
Income              : P600/mo.
Ownership             rented - P70/mo.
Facilities          : with toilet and bath - right side. rear
portion
kitchen sink - beside toilet and bath -
rear portion of house with lectricity, no
water supply.
11 Occupants            : 6 occupants - I family
Income              : P500/mo.
Ownership            -roted - P70/mo.
Facilities            some as abooe
Proposed Improvements
- water supply
- sewerage
World B.nk-15232(RI






AERIAL VIEW OF TONDO FORESHORE






A E RI AL V I EW O F O LD TO0NDI)O
AERIAL VIEW OF TONDO FORESHORE
(Density: about 500 pers./ha)






-_f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4-
AERIALVIEWOFDAGATDAGATAN1975                  -
AERIAL VIEW OF DAGAT-DAGATAN 1975






[~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L5                                                                                                 Sr4                  :     *B-*fiS
LA                                                    5s
bt
MAs                 =.A                                                                                   ...                                    .
_            S                                .                               ...........................  j  4            ~~~ ~~~PHICIPPINES
2  vf>, '- MAigDrY    dig= it ' I /METROPOLITAN  MANILA
iy   ,-. E  2,         M  g             X    2 ,,              MANILA URBRAoNDEVELROPMENT PROJECT
P;5  A                                                                                                                          5'~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRJC   AREAS
edust,!al a,d FSse 1y Sit#.
w < Jej ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nsitatinoal,Ooemmesnt and Prnate Areas
<   . .                    .  ,;2      W;                             S      FT    ..............................................   0   H; A NSP w a   U b..   open    $P...g
~]     Tr-sseer isa an  UtHilies Ares
}~~  -              PrieS~~ale, Ispins
-N I4{{4   /        .                                      F   =                                                               Prsspweld P5i1-ry       s .ad    i
",  = '~~~~~~$   /   ;0 1                   ,           =,,                     Ei                      0                     W2~~~~~~~~~~~~LOWdTERs        
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                 t                           s-rJ    






gTt M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r--rmprr  water muplanes3>u\/
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p                                                                    en orsed bin h  sojent _\    
L  ~            mr U                                                                        t    \ 
, Z           rpoe ONmr ossa 
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                                                      p*       /                                           A   NI LA
:                                                                                                                        0o.-,         /\  \\ 
PHLIPPI' NEVS                                                     AN                                   '' '
Man nfasrutue -0              ~
\  s> _- ---  -                                             A                ',A    S 
Tar,,l-t(\                - .       -qy0, r
I SAnroro  d        Main r                        'mge lim  Z:A~
rr~  anFornar     l     W  rn a-,                                     0                OX                         1-       A.. f        0        CA 
Ton d    and   ogat  Do          tn                                                             br or-t-,r p-d
Main       IBnfrastructur                      R-
RSR
Proposed bridges~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~' 
Proposed primary mOos.
MAN  NIILA
O  200  200  dSP  tOG  SOC         F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.
o                *o'k                                                                      ~       
VITAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z



I



PHILIPPINES
r<  g 0   K                T   x.                          ! ,MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
/                                 .                                    P E t o Tondo Foresore an  U    Plan
A re a   V   /       O                !    \                             d   )                     =     roc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1d0,d regtR ay
Co'fARDnity    S
-                               eXJv :Heath -enters
open spaces
RedoIaced                                                                    Sm0N                                                      .-R-O-Rary
Land resrvd for future major
cod 'ih of .ay
A~~~) no a
-cProposd bridgos
.4                                         ~~      ~~~~0 10  20 0eoe    400   400       500
YARDOS
0"'     ~               0 
d~~~~~~~I, ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ k
rc~~~~~  g,      jr
gA
40dC 
A~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                           ~ OC0  00'   .  -, ,  00C C."o   S-
C-'---  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   /        /~~~~~~~~~~J






IBRO) 11889
LUeO
tJ I    I gg  I            E                          'g': ''S q '' /9'    !S' :'4n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P1Il IPI E
|   FFACPLITELS fSCLUDE w4SH84sINs                                                       *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ROSEIJ5 WAF<LTIER SUPYlE
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                  I2
PL- EXISTING WEB S
,-                                                        (     PLOT    ARES
B POUNSDFARIIIES






Dagut-Dagatan  ~           ~          ~          HAITA         DEMONSTRATION0                                                                                          \\\STBIIAtONPND/ (
REA_Ploposed  r
Proposed roads w%thm residenh21 uress  \  \ \\        \\                   \                         /       /     \                                           '
o,~ ~~~a 22o  E                                                                                                                                                                 )NC AN1A1 1o\     \   
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                            
Dagat-Dagatan Proposed Layout  \R-d
- --  P,p-    -p  .                                                                                                                                                                0  .   t






C-4                    Epif.i d  oa,.d. L.,  oS.  , A e
r; f n  ;n0  \\<                          X                                         <
C-3
SofA      2hppuse                      -~~~~1      2
-:4 LuzL  .: - .  X  =t  0 i  0    0    0   '                           t            tgANIL~~~~~~~----ajo URoBdN nonlDEdEOM N    PROprJEec
, , ;; ;   0   DA~~INONA G2                                                  I ,. t                                                  0 M          Traffic signal lights in study area              _
u LOMTERS                    'ajor roads                                                      n
1          1~~~~~~~~~~~~2Srndr  od                                                                   prxiaebudr 
12 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ Riw y                                                  fsuyae
2 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~MLSRor
5ye--  yy4n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l






ANNEX
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   General Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector:
1.   Metropolitan Manila Development Projects - Two Volumes
PPDO - November 1975
2.   Human Settlements:  The Vision of a New Society - Three Volumes
Task Force on Human Settlements Development Academy of
the Philippines - November 1974
3.   Local Governments in the Metro Area and Their Capability to Plan
Arturo Pacho, U.P. College of Public Administration
4.   Metro Manila Ring Development 15 Projects
Projects Division & Manila Bay Metropolitan Region Planning
Team - PPDO/DPWTC - November 1972
5.   Integrated Development of the Manila Bay Region - Interim Report
No. 5, Manila Bay Metropolitan Region Strategic Plan,
DPWTC - April 1973
6.   Housing in the Philippines - Preparatory Materials for the
Conference on Housing, National Economic and Development
Authority - 1973
B.   General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project:
1.   Metro Manila Urban Renewal and Development Project - Four Volumes
Tondo Foreshore Development Authority - 1975
2.   Appraisal of Manila Water Supply Project in the Republic of the
Philippines, Asian Development Bank - Report No. PHI:
April 15 - July 1974
3.   Site Feasibility:  Industrial and Commercial Complex, Tondo
Foreshore Development Authority - July 1975
4.   Management Organization and Operating Systems
Tondo Foreshore Development Authority - July 1975
5.   Report to the Board of Directors
Tondo Foreshore Development Authority - June 23, 1975



ANNEX
Page 2 of 2
6.   "MASICAP" - Proposed National Program - 1974 and 1974/75 Annual
Report Development Academy of the Philippines, Department
of Industry
7.   Master Plan for a Sewerage System for the Metropolitan Manila Area
Black and Veatch International - 1969
C.   Selected Working Papers and Drawings:
1.   Metropolitan Manila Transport - Radial Road R-10 Feasibility Study -
Drawings - Japan International Cooperation Agency - August 1975
2.   R-10 Highway Feasibility Study
Planning and Project Development Office, DPWTC - 1975
3.   Tondo Foreshore Urban Renewal Project - Sanitary Sewer System -
Cost Estimates - Planning and Project Development Office,
DPWTC - 1975
4.   Dagat-Dagatan Resettlement Area - Residential Area (Phase I) Design
Computations & Cost Estimate of the Proposed Open Ditches
Planning & Project Development Office, DPWTC - 1975
5.   Tondo Foreshore and Dagat-Dagatan Water Supply System - Cost Estimates
Planning & Project Development Office, DPWTC - 1975
6.   Dagat-Dagatan Resettlement Area - Sewerage System - Cost Estimates
Planning & Project Development Office, DPWTC - 1975
7.   Tondo Urban Renewal Project - Storm Drainage System - Preliminary
Design and Cost Estimates, Planning & Project Development
Office, DPWTC - 1975
8.   Circulation Roads - Tondo Foreshore and Dagat-Dagatan, Planning
& Project Development Office, DPWTC
9.   Miscellaneous Reports on Lot Development and Land Use Planning
Tondo and Dagat-Dagatan - G. Gattoni - 1974/75
10.   Program Report on Sanitary Engineering
J. Hale - November 1975
11.   Cost Benefit Analysis of Shelter Component; TUPD
12.   Manila Urban Transport Preparation and Appraisal Mission Reports
K. Huddart - 1975
13.   Appraisal of Urban Transport:
S. Pendakur - 1975
14.   Post Appraisal Report on Project Cost Estimates
D. Hunter - 1975



