                                              Document of                         85511
                                       The World Bank

                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                           PHILIPPINES

                              MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


          Report on the Status of the Tondo Foreshore Development Project




Urban Projects
December 12, 1977




    This d~ument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
    their oflcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                                                                                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                       PHILIPPINES


                                 MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


      Report on the Status of the Tondo Foreshore Development Project


                                                                                                                               Page No.


 Sullllllary • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •     1

 Background . . . • . . • • • • • • . • • . . . . . . . . • . • . • . . . • • • • • . • . . . • . • • • • • • • • • •            2

 Implementation Status ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                                                4

          A.        Tondo Upgrading ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                                       5
                    Sanitation Infrastructure ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                                       5
                    Health Facilities and Programs •••••••••••••••••••••••                                                       5
                    Education ••••••••••••......•.•••••••.•••••.........•.                                                       5
                    Materials Loans and Small Business Loans •••••••••••••                                                       5

          B.        Dagat-Dagatan Sites and Services •••••••••••••••••••••                                                       5

 Reb locking . • • . . • . . • • • • . • • • • • • • . . . • . • • • • • • • • . • • . . • . . . . • . • • • • • • • •           5

 Outstanding Issue:                    Purchase Price of Land and Lease Rate ••••••                                              7

          A.        Purchase Price •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                                       7
          B.        Leas e Rates • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •             8

 Relocation •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                                                9

 Current Status of Community Relations ••••••••••••••••••••••••••                                                                9

 Project Monitoring and Evaluation ·····•••••••••••••••••••••••••                                                               12

 Remaining Risks and Implementation Issues ••••••••••••••••••••••                                                               13

 Annexes 1-4

 Photographs




This document twa restricted distribution and may be Uled by recipienta only in the performance
of their of&ial duties. Ita contenta may not otherwilc be dilc:loled without World Bank autborizatioo.
      Report on the Status of the Tondo Foreshore Development Project


Summary

i.        The upgrading of the Tondo Foreshore is a major component of the
Manila Urban Development Project (Loan 1272/1282 PH, approved by the Executive
Directors in May 1976).

ii.       Supervision of the Project has been intensive, with missions visit-
ing the Philippines at three or four monthly intervals since loan signing.
Much has already been learned from the Project about the process of slum
upgrading and the provision of health and other social services. Particularly
notable is the process which has come to be known as "reblocking". This is
the process of preparing a subdivision layout as a basis for providing access
and basic services as well as for establishing land tenure. This process
involves formal and intensive planning with the families living in Tondo, on a
neighborhood by neighborhood basis. This is described fully in paras 16 to 22
and in Annex 4. The reblocking experience in Manila has already influenced
the design of subsequent urban projects financed by the Bank.

iii.      Perhaps the most important contribution of the Project is the impact
it has had on Government policy. The metropolitan Manila area (population
5.5 million) is characterized by great disparities in income and living
standards. Estimates are that almost one third of the city live in slum and
squatter areas lacking in sanitation facilities, and characterized by high
levels of malnutrition, infant mortality and parasitic and intestinal diseases.
Following an initial period in which much of its resources were devoted to
relocation of squatters from drainage canals and other waterways in metropo-
litan Manila, the National Housing Authority (NHA) has established and is
actively expanding a nationwide program of slum upgrading. Some 450 candidate
upgrading areas in metro Manila involving a population of about one million
persons have been identified, most with sanitation and health conditions
similar to those in Tondo. On June 11, 1977 two Presidential Letters of In-
struction (LOI), which carry the force of law, were signed to establish slum
upgrading as national policy. In addition, these LOis specify that reloca-
tion of squatters will only take place if necessitated for public infrastruc-
ture, and not to distant relocation centers. Local governments of 14 cities
and municipalities in the Manila metropolitan area already have established
permanent technical teams to undertake design and feasibility studies for
upgrading slums in their respective municipalities. Similar teams have also
been established in the regional cities of Cebu, Davao, Cagayan de Oro and
Baguio.

iv.       The Tondo Foreshore Development Project enjoys a very high level of
support by residents of the area and is being implemented as originally agreed
with the Government. Initial survey results of community attitudes towards
the Project indicate that almost 90% of the residents are satisfied with the
Project to date (see para 43). While several important steps have to be
completed before the Project can be finally labled a success, the Project
continues to merit strong support from the Government and the Bank.
                                   - 2 -


~ackground


1.        Consideration by the Bank of an urban project in the hn.._ippin~.-,
began in late 1973 when an urban sector mission visited Manila. The sectn·
mission highlighted certain consequences of past growth patterns in the
metropolitan Manila area including imbalances between the locations of resi-
dences and work places and extreme income differentials and service level
disparities.

2.        Early work on project identification involved a review of a long
list of major infrastructure projects resulting in the selection of a project
in the Tondo Foreshore as prototypical of important urban problems requiring
solution.

3.        A Government task force was established with technical personnel
from several agencies to develop plans for the Tondo, a 180 ha site with a
population of about 180,000 located directly behind the Port and close to the
commercial centers of Manila. In December 1.974, this task force recommended
a plan, subsequently abandoned, that involved converting approximately half the
land to industrial and commercial uses and significantly reducing the resi-
dential density on remaining land. That earlier plan would have resulted in
approximately 70% of the families being displaced from the area. New housing
construction proposed for the remainder would have necessitated high levels of
subsidy. Community groups strongly opposed the plan. Following a review by
a Bank mission in February 1975, agreement was reached with the Government on
a completely different approach, which involved provision of services to
families in place, i.e. water supply, human waste disposal, surface water
drainage, paved footpaths and streets, schools and clinics. The project was
specifically designed to keep relocation to an absolute minimum consistent
with satisfactory installation of basic services.

4.        A revised "framework plan" for the Tondo, ·based on this new approach,
was prepared and discussed with community groups and other government offi-
cials, during staff visits in 1975. The community groups, including Zoto/
Ugnayan 1/greeted the revised framework plan for Tondo and Dagatan with a
great deal of enthusiasm.

5.        Subsequent to Project appraisal, and in consultation with Bank
staff, the National Housing Authority (NHA) was established in October 1975
and absorbed the Tondo Foreshore Development Authority (TFDA) which previously
had responsibility for the Project. The head of the TFDA was named as General
Manager of the NHA. In November of the same year, the Metro Manila Commission
(MMC) was established. One of the first major programs of the MMC was to
attempt to obtain relief from chronic flooding i.n Manila by clearing obstruc-
tions from rivers and drainage canals in the city. A crash program was estab-
lished under the NHA to remove all squatter families living on waterways.


ll   There are many organized community groups in the Tondo, of which Zoto
     (Zone One Tendo Organization) and Ugnayan (Ugnayan ng mga Samahan ng mga
     Mamamayan) are two of the more politically active groups.
                                    - 3 -


This was given extra impetus in the Summer of 1976, when fatalities occurred
from flash flooding. Since sites for permanent settlement close to the
urban core were unavailable, the NHA established temporary relocation centers
on land owned by local governments in the MMC and also expanded two distant
relocation centers. Thus, the most visible activity of the NHA during the
first year of its existence was the program of relocating thousands of
families from waterways. While clearing of the flood control canals was
needed, the severe time constraints imposed on the program precluded the
preparation of permanent relocation settlements in suitable locations. This
program very severely soured relations between the NHA and city-wide squatter
groups, many of which are headquartered in the Tondo. Apparently it also led
some community groups to express doubts about NHA's sincerity in fulfilling
promises of not relocating families out of the Tondo Dagat-Dagatan Project
area.

6.        Because the waterway relocation program was initiated after the
1975 appraisal of the Tondo Project, it was not reflected in discussions
with the Government that led to the Project. The discontent expressed by
squatter groups during the time of the 1976 Bank/Fund Annual Meetings seems
not to have been brought about by discontent with the Tondo Project (though
the residents expressed strong feelings about being able to purchase the land
at a low price) but by anger at the NHA over the city-wide waterway relocation
program. While no families in the Tondo Project area itself were affected by
this program, families living along drainage channels and rivers adjacent to
the Project area were affected.

7.        It has previously been alleged that families in the Tondo Project
area had been or would be relocated to Dasmarinas (a distant relocation
center). Any such relocation would have been in violation of public commit-
ments made by the General Manager of NHA and in violation of agreed Project
implementation procedures. To our knowledge, no such relocation took place.
Within the Project area, the only relocation that· has taken place that could
be considered inconsistent with the development plan was the widening of
Zaragoza Street, which took place in September 1976. Thirty structures were
affected by the widening of this road, twenty-four of which were squatter
houses and six of which were titled. Families affected were resettled within
the Project area. The Zaragoza widening relieved a major bottleneck to Port
traffic access. However it was not envisaged for widening under the agreed
development plan, because by 1979 the congestion would have been relieved by
the construction of R10 roadway. Although the widening of Zaragoza could
possibly be justified as a needed interim traffic relief measure, it was
hurriedly done and was a cause of local resentment.

8.        Other projects have been undertaken in the general Tondo Dagat-
Dagatan Project area which th~ Bank is not financing but with which Press
reports have associated the Bank. These are:

     (a)   Expansion of the International Port

     (b)   The Kapitbahayan Housing Project

     (c)   International Design Competition Area
                                  - 4 -

International Port Expansion Some three thousand squatter families live on
the s~te being reclaimed for the International Port (see map), which is
financed with German bi-lateral support. These families are due to be re-
located as Port construction proceeds. Although we are not involved with the
Port development, we agreed, as a means of assisting these families, to
finance sites in Dagat-Dagatan for 1,500 families who would be affected by the
first phase of the Port construction. Families living in the International
Port area have fully endorsed the plan for permanent settlement in the Dagat-
Dagatan area, which is about four kilometers away. In fact, community leaders
have indicated that they are anxious to be able to move, because their current
location is subject to severe typhoon and flood exposure.

Kapitbahayan This project is a high standard, relatively high cost (repor-
tedly about P45,000 or US$6,000 per dwelling unit) development in the Dagat-
Dagatan area adjacent to the Project site (see map). It was constructed by
the NHA's Tondo Project Office prior to the Vancouver Habitat Conference.
The Bank is not financing this development. To the contrary, Bank staff have
been critical of the high unit costs and high design standards. Rental units
in Kapitbahayan were offered to residents of the Tondo who could afford the
somewhat high (P70-120 per month or US$9.46-US$16.20) but heavily subsidized
rent. While the residents are generally happy with these units, some commu-
nity groups were concerned that the Government had changed its mind about
lower cost sites and services units to be built at Dagat-Dagatan, and ex-
pressed fear that the more expensive Kapitbahayan model would be replicated
under the Project. These fears are now allayed by the near completion of
the f~rst 500 sites and services units at Dagat-Dagatan under the Project
(48 m lots with monthly charge averaging about P 47 or US$6.47).

International Design Competition In 1974 an international competition was
held for the design of improved settlement for low-income and resettled
families. The winning design was to have been constructed in a 5 ha site in
Dagat-Dagatan (see map). During the Habitat Conference in Vancouver in
1976, the Government was criticized by various participants for holding a
competition at all, since by its nature such an international competition
results in technical solutions being developed abroad and precludes community
participation. Of more significance, however, was criticism of the Govern-
ment for not permitting a spokesman for Zoto/Ugnayan to participate in the
Conference or in judging of the entries. It now appears that the design
selected by the award panel will not be constructed.

Implementation Status

9.        Construction under the Project is now proceeding reasonably well.
After a slow start caused by difficulties in hiring experienced technical
staff, the upgrading of the Tondo is now expected to be completed approxi-
mately on schedule. The Dagat-Dagatan component is approximately nine months
behind schedule.
                                    - 5 -


A.   Tondo Upgrading

10.       Sanitation Infrastructure - Work is progressing on several primary
infrastructural components in the Tondo including: main surface drainage
(80% completed); secondary watermains (70% completed); and the interceptor
sewer (50% completed). Also, substantial fill materials have been added to
low-lying areas. In addition, 450 new sites and services units on the former
Public Works Compound within Tondo will be completed in December.

11.       Work has also begun on "tertiary infrastructure" in an 18 block
section of Tondo that has been designated for completion on a priority basis.
This tertiary infrastructure includes connections for water and sewers, paving
of streets and footpaths and minor drainage.

12.       Health Facilities and Programs - The new health clinic in Tondo
has been completed and upgrading of another existing clinic will start after
February 1978. Health programs assisted by the Project are under way in the
following areas: mother and child care, nutrition programs, deworming, TB
X-Ray, vermin and rodent control, improved garbage collection and health
education (leaflets, films, pamphlets, etc). In addition, some 98 barangay
health workers, and 285 nutrition aides who were trained under the Project,
are actively working on a part-time basis. These health workers in the Tondo
Project are considered a model for similar health workers being considered
under other proposed population and health projects and have resulted in a 50%
increase in referrals to clinics and hospitals.

13.       Education - Families   in the Tondo area place a high priority on
education. The new Tondo High    School is expected to be completed in December,
and construction of additional   classrooms for the four existing elementary
schools in the area will begin   in February 1978. Toilets and piped water
have already been added to two   existing schools.

14.       Materials Loans and Small Business Loans - Approximately 463 loans
for building materials averaging P930 (US$52) each have been awarded. Appli-
cations have already been received from 99 businesses for small loans. Of
these, about 44 appear to have sufficient merit for continued follow-up.
Applications are pending the completion of the layout and lot awarding in
the blocks within which the businesses exist.

B.   Dagat-Dagatan Sites and Services

15.       Construction has started on 1,500 out of 2,000 sites and services
units to be constructed in Dagat-Dagatan. The first 500 units will be ready
for occupancy in December 1977.

Reb locking

16.       The most interesting and important aspect of the upgrading program
in the Tondo is the process that has come to be known as "reblocking". This
is the process of preparing a subdivision layout as a basis for providing
                                   - 6 -


access and other services as well as establishing land tenure and individual
plot boundaries. The Tondo Project, as the first Bank-financed slum upgrad-
ing Project that involves provision of services to individual lots and the
provision of land tenure to beneficiaries, is the first Project involving
direct experience in reblocking. As a result, much has been learned regarding
appropriate approaches to this process.

17.       Houses in the Tondo have been built in an extremely dense and
irregular fashion. Access to many properties is by way of very narrow and
winding footpaths. Bank missions to the Philippines in the past had argued
for an upgrading procedure that was essentially "as is, where is", e.g. foot-
paths would be paved wherever they were and to whatever width existed. New
streets would be added only to provide access to fire protection vehicles.
Government Project Office staff, however, argued for an upgrading process that
would result in a more regular street and lot layout pattern and involve
movement and realignment of structures within blocks. Streets would be
straightened in the process. This issue was resolved by leaving the decision
about the degree of regularization of streets and plot shapes to each
neighborhood.

18.        For planning purposes, the Tondo was divided into 24 "superblocks"
consisting of areas bounded by main roads within which planning for facilities
can most easily be focused. Each of the "superblocks" is in turn divided
into neighborhood blocks involving 100-250 families within which the "reblock-
ing" occurs. The process includes the presentation to the block residents of
three alternative plans for street layouts and house locations within their
neighborhood, from which the residents of the neighborhood designate their
preferences in an open forum. The three plans presented to the residents
include: (i) Plan "A", involving minimal changes in property alignments and
leaving the existing irregular pattern of lot shapes and footways; (ii) Plan
''B", creating more regular street and property alignments than currently exist
but involving more changes in property layouts; and (iii) Plan "C", a fairly
regular pattern of streets with rectangular lot shapes, which requires sub-
stantial shifts of houses within blocks.

19.       The alternative block layout plans are explained to the block
residents in community meetings where the differences in the various options
are explained. The Project Office establishes a composite technical team
to work with the families comprising an architect, a community relations
worker, and a member of the socio-economic development group within the
Project Office. The community votes on their preference and is free to propose
whatever modifications they desire as a community. The architect and other
members of the composite team assist in preparing modifications to block
plans. A more complete outline of the steps in reblocking is given in Annex
4. This Annex illustrates the eomplexity of the reblocking process and the
intensity of the community work required to make it a success.

20.       It has been interesting to observe that in almost all blocks of
Tondo, the residents have voted for Plan "C", even though this usually re-
quires from 50-70% of the houses within the block to be realigned. This
option creates a residential layout which most closely resembles that of other
                                     - 7 -


more permanently established neighborhoods, which is one of the aspirations of
the residents. Another reason for the selection of the regular block layout
appears to be the desire to create a neighborhood which has better access and
is therefore less susceptible to fire and health hazards. House movement
necessitated by comll1lnity selection of Plan "C" is the responsibility of the
residents and is usually undertaken through "Bayanihan" or comll1lnity self-help
by neighbors. The NHA also provides some additional semi-skilled manpower.
Materials loans under the Project are made available at the time of the
movement.

21.       To date, attention has focused on 18 contiguous blocks in the
"priority" area (see map) with a population of about 13,500 persons, al-
though some reblocking has occurred in 22 blocks out of a total of 97 blocks.
Annex 3 shows the number of blocks in various stages. Five blocks have
completed all movement of houses, and four additional blocks are almost
completed. Sample surveys of families that have been involved in reblocking
reveal that 27% of houses either have been or expect to move a few lots away,
and another 32% involve a shift within approximately the same site to conform
to street and lot subdivision plans.

22.       It had been originally hoped that realignment of structures, award-
ing of lots, and completion of construction in the "priority area" would be
completed by September 11. However, because of persistent rains, errors in
surveys, and slower than expected movement of structures, this priority area
is now expected to be completed by December 11. Initial work is shown in
attached photographs. In blocks where permanent locations and lot boundaries
have been already agreed, there is already substantial evidence of house
improvement and expansion through self-help means. Each such block has
several substantial buildings under construction -- some to two stories.

Outstanding Issue:    Purchase Price of Land and Lease Rate

A.   Purchase Price

23.       Many Tondo residents feel very strongly about the question of
land ownership and tenure. Except for a small area called "Old Tondo",
where property is fully owned, the Tondo Foreshore (Project area) is mostly
inhabited by squatters, who, after years of residence feel entitled to full
legal ownership at a nominal price compared with the current market value
of the land.

24.       Legislative acts passed in 1956 (particularly R.A. 1597) provided
for the subdivision and sale of part of the Tondo Foreshore area at PS per
square meter, a fraction of the current market value. In implementing the
program, families in what is ~ow called the "Old Tondo" section of the Project
area, were offered lots of 96 square meters. This relatively large lot size
meant that many families would be dislocated because there was insufficient
land to provide all of the families in the area with lots of that size. As a
result, only a few Tondo residents took advantage of the provisions of the
earlier acts, and most were not able to do so.
                                       - 8-


  25.       Presidential Decree (PD) 814 was issued in October 1975 reaffirming
  the Government's intention to provide all Tondo residents with security
  of tenure and the right to purchase land; it also expanded the geographical
  area of land available for lease and purchase to cover the Dagat-Dagatan
  area. PD 814 provided that residents of Tondo would lease their property from
  the National Housing Authority under 25-year leases, renewable at the option
  of the leaseholder. Lease rates would cover development costs and amount to
  about US$6.40 per month for a typical 48 square meter lot. Families were to
  be allowed to purchase their lots after five years under a purchase plan which
 would require higher monthly payments than under leases. Those wishing to
  continue the lower-cost leases will be able to do so with security of tenure
  assured. The purchase option in PD 814 specified that purchase will be at the
  market value at the time the purchase option is exercised. Government tech-
  nical staff insisted on this provision to minimize land turnover and specula-
  tion. The residents of the area, however, argue strongly for a lower than
  market price. In an effort to resolve this difference, we have been in
 rconsultation with Philippine authorities during the past year, and the NHA has



\~
 'ow devised a fcrmula whereby the charge for services will be distinguished
  from the charge for land, and the total purchase price for land and services
   ill be lower than market values. The formula adopted by NHA has the twin
   bjectives of provid:tn.&. Jul~._..£Q§~.xecavery~~:J,thin -~~~-Project area (thereby
  ensuring Project replicability), while at the same time establfsning a
  purchase price which can be afforded by the current residents in Tondo.

 26.       On several occasions, Bank staff and NHA have discussed the deter-
 mination and timing of the announcement of the purchase price to the residents.
 NHA has been concerned that, if an announcement of a price significantly below
 market value were made prior to the completion of the legal subdivision and
 assignment of lots to all families, excessive disputes by families over the
 size of lots to be obtained might occur. Discussions between the Tondo Project
 Office and community groups (including Zoto/Ugnayan) on the question of the
 purchase price were scheduled to begin in November/December. It is expected
 that an announcement of the revisions to PD 814 will be made shortly.

 B.    Lease Rates   lJ
 27.       During appraisal, the proposed monthly lease payment of roughly
 P0.95 (US$0.13) per month (on average) per square meter was widely discussed
 in a series of meetings with all community groups. All groups, at that
 time, indicated that the amount was affordable; this was confirmed by careful
 analysis of the income distribution of families in the Tondo Foreshore (Table
 V-4, Staff Project Report). The analysis in the Staff Project Report assumes
 that families can spend 18% of income on housing and related services including
 water and property taxes. 11 The analyses also indicate that an average size


 ll    The question of affordability is discussed in paras 62-63 of the Presi-
       dent's Report and 5.15 to 5.17 of the Staff Project Report.

 11   Most Bank-supported sites and services projects assume that families
      can afford to spend between 15% and 25% of family income on housing and
      services.
                                   - 9 -


lot (48 square meters) could be afforded by about 75% of the Tondo residents,
that a somewhat smaller lot could be afforded by 85%, and that the vast
majority of families below the fifteenth percentile are transients or renters.
The poorest group is expected to continue renting rooms in the area and
should receive substantial indirect benefits from the Project.

28.       Developing an affordable cost recovery scheme for a slum upgrading
project requires a series of difficult judgements and compromises. It is im-
possible to make everyone happy. Also, there is inevitably some degree of
bargaining on the part of the residents for as favourable a deal as possible.

29.        The debate over wherether P0.95 (US$0.13) per square meter per month
is affordable however, may turn out to be moot. Current estimates of Project
costs (see Annex 2) are lower than those at the time of appraisal, and NHA is
currently revising its estimates of the lease price. It is expected that when
the final lease rate is announced the amount may be 15-20% below original
estimates.

Relocation

30.        The amount of relocation in the Project is still substantially
the same as described in the appraisal report. However, the concept of
relocation and community attitudes towards relocation need to be clarified.
As the Project is now being implemented, the number of houses affected by
construction of streets and footpaths within the Tondo depends largely on the
decisions of the community itself. As noted earlier, families are electing to
shift the location of houses to permit construction of a fairly regular
pattern ·of streets and footpaths. Thus, although certain minimum circulation
patterns and street access standards for fire safety purposes are dictated by
general planning considerations, the community is electing a degree of house
movement far in excess of minimum requirements. Families affected by the
realignment are generally accommodated in the same block though there is also
movement from denser blocks to less dense blocks and other open space (e.g.
former Public Works Storage Compound). Relocation in this sense is voluntary
and based on community consensus and therefore does not generate social
and political problems.

31.       The infrastructure items that do not fit this pattern of movement
through community choice are the RIO and C2 roadways and the International
Port. RlO and C2 are important national roadways which pass through Tondo
and are financed under the Project. The alignment of both roads has been
designed to keep relocation to a minimum, but the construction Right-of-Way
of the RlO will nevertheless affect an estimated 422 l/ families and that
of the C2 an estimated 69 families. Channel reclamation associated with the
C2 will affect another 200 families. The International Port Expansion (not
financed by the Bank) will cause the eventual relocation of some 3,000 squatter


ll   The NHA would prefer to relocate families on the remaining ROW of the
     RlO roadway (another 450 families) even though construction of future
     lanes would not be required for about 15 years. This proposal is still
     under discussion between Bank staff and NHA.
                                   - 10 -


families living within the Port boundaries and account had to be taken of
this fact when planning the development of Dagat-Dagatan and assigning lots
there. As a means of assisting these families, the Project includes finance
for about 1,500 lots in Dagat-Dagatan for families affected by the first phase
Port expansj.on. As noted earlier (para 8) the families living in the Inter-
national Port area fully support the idea of permanent resettlement in
Dagat-Dagatan, which they regard as a desirable area.

32.       It had been expected earlier that, apart from the International-
Port families, only 500 families from the interior of Tondo would need to be
resettled in Dagat-Dagatan. However, the options being elected by neighbor-
hoods in the reblocking process are utilizing existing vacant land to a
greater extent than previously envisaged and there may be an additional 200
families from the interior of the Tondo Project area who are resettled in
Dagat-Dagatan, for a total of about 700 families (out of a total in the Tondo
of about 27,000 families). Total movement to Dagat-Dagatan under the Project
is therefore estimated at 2,200 (comprising 1,500 families from the Interna-
tional Port plus 700 families from the Tondo itself).

33.       The amount of relocation in the Project as agreed with the Govern-
ment, is not and has not been an issue within the community. Where concern
about relocation has been expressed, it has been the concern that the plan
would not be implemented as agreed.

34.       Our discussions with squatter families in the MMC, including many
outside the Project area indicate in fact that these families do not object to
relocation to nearby areas, when necessitated by public utility construction,
provided their needs are taken into account. What these families ask for is
that the relocation site be a permanent one (so that unnecessary investment in
temporary house building and public services and facilities are not required)
and also that sites be located within reasonable commuting distance to jobs.
Under such circumstances, it is our impression that squatter families are in
fact pleased with resettlement and feel that they are the beneficiaries of a
positive program under which they are finally being given a chance to settle
permanently.

Current Status of Community Relations

35.       The Community Relations and Information Organization (CRIO) is
a department within the Project Unit which serves as a liaison between com-
munity residents and NHA staff. CRIO, faced with an extremely difficult and
delicate task because of the history of political unrest in Tondo and changing
Government policies affecting the Tondo area, appears to be succeeding in
building trust with the community residents. CRIO is responsible for dis-
cussing the objectives and implementation schedule for the Project with the
community, for assisting them at the time of relocation, and for maintaining
contact with all leaders of the community about problems as they may arise
during the course of implementation. CRIO also publishes a Project newsletter
"Pahayag" which is written in Tagalog and which discusses various aspects of
the Project. This newsletter is distributed at least monthly and usually more
often.
                                   -   11 -


36.       The exact position towards the Project of some of the more radical
groups within the area such as Zoto/Ugnayan is unclear at this time. They
seem supportive when Bank missions discuss the Project with them but on other
occasions, they are alleged by both NHA and moderate citizens groups to be
lobbying against the Project. It is hard to tell how many residents belong to
each group; nevertheless, moderate groups, (e.g. the barangay chairmen, the
Women's League and the Don Bosco Fathers) are quite influential among the
residents and are supportive of the Project.

37.       As far as Bank staff are concerned, relations with all community
groups including Zoto/Ugnayan have been good; during one of the missions
Zoto even referred to the Bank as its "hero" because of revisions in Project
brought about by the Bank's involvement. It was perhaps in large part because
of the Bank's interest in what Zoto and Ugnayan had to say that after loan
signing in May 1976, letters began to be written to the Bank requesting
intervention in activities not related so much to the Project as to other
happenings in the Philippines. It appears that Zoto/Ugnayan began to look to
the Bank for non-project-related assistance for the following reasons:

          The Bank staff had proven its capacity for listening
          carefully to the problems of the most vocal community
          groups;

          There was confusion in the minds of many as to the
          Bank's participation in other projects in the Tondo area,
          such as the architectural competition project and the
          Kapitbahayan project, which were not designed in con-
          sultation with community residents; and

          The Bank was a participant in the Vancouver Habitat
          Conference, which Zoto community leaders were not
          allowed to attend.

38.       Although it has avoided being involved in discussions not related to
the Project, the Bank has continued to meet with community representatives
during supervision missions. Each mission holds meetings with groups ranging
from barangay leaders to religious groups, to Zoto/Ugnayan and representatives
of the Fishermen's Channel Association. The meetings usually take place in
the Project Unit's office. Representatives of the Tondo Project Office are
always asked to attend. The sole purpose of the meetings are to serve as a
forum for the residents to express their feelings about Project implementation.
The primary concerns most recently expressed by all community groups are that
the final purchase price of the land and the terms of payment be announced.
The Zoto/Ugnayan also believe that more frequent meetings should be held
between themselves and the Project Office. On the latter point, the NHA
considers the barangay leaders 1J to be official representatives of the
community and directs its communications through the barangay organization.


ll   A barangay is the smallest political unit comprising 500-2,000 families.
                                    - 12 -


The issue is made more difficult because the NHA considers Zoto/Ugnayan to
be anti-government and does not want to enhance their credibility in the
community. While few regular meetings have been held during the past year
with Zoto/Ugnayan apart from those requested by Bank stafft arrangements have
now been made to schedule meetings on a bi-weekly basis for the next several
months. These meetings would focus primarily on tenuret leaset and purchase
price options.

Project Monitoring and Evaluation

39.       As part of a larger effort of monitoring and evaluating Bank-
financed urban development projects in El Salvadort Senegal and Zambia, the
Bank, with co-funding from the International Development Research Centre of
Canada (IDRC), is sponsoring research to assess the overall socio-economic
impact of the Project on the Tondo population and to comment on the efficiency
and effectiveness of the Project components. A local field research team
composed of Filipino social scientists, has been established within the NHA
under the leadership of a Filipino sociologist on an IDRC consultancy. Its
findings are to be reported simultaneously to the Bank, IDRC and NHA manage-
ment; they are also discussed in periodic conferences held with the researchers
of the evaluation programs and project managers of the three other countries.

40.       The evaluation unit is charged with two main tasks. First it will
seek to determine the overall impact of the Project on the socio-economic
characteristics of the Tondo population; i.e. demographic composition, income
and expenditure patterns, employment, housing conditions, and health. It will
do so by noting changes in these variables through sets of surveys applied
over time in the Tondo. These changes will then be compared with developments
in other areas which have conditions similar to the Tondo but which are not
affected by the Project. We expect reports periodically, depending on the
timing of the surveys.

41.       Second, the unit will also evaluate the appropriateness of Project
components to local conditions, their efficiency in delivering the services,
and their effectiveness in achieving the Project goal of improved housing at
minimim cost to the maximum number of low-income residents. For example, a
report on the reblocking exercise is currently being finalized which will
comment on its efficiency as a means of improving services in a way that is
affordable by the bulk of the population (see para 43 for initial survey
results). The unit will also produce interim reports on the general progress
of the Project each calendar quarter.

42.        The evaluation unit started its work in the Summer of 1977. Thus
far, the full cooperation of NHA general management has been received in
establishing the team. It is hoped that as the unit's reports are submitted
Project management will perceive them as inputs into making informed policy
decisions.

43.       Survey Results of Community Attitude Towards Reblocking - Initial
surveys of community attitude in the areas that have been reblocked have been
                                    - 13 -


conducted by the evaluation unit (see para 39). These surveys reveal a
fairly high level of community satisfaction, despite the fact that construc-
tion is still in progress, and there is considerable disruption being caused
by the works underway in the community. The results of this survey are
summarized below: ll

     (a)   Satisfaction with Reblocking Process: Approximately 65% of
           families stated that they were very satisfied with the
           reblocking process and another 22% stated that they were
           slightly satisfied for a total of 87%. Only 6.4% were very
           dissatisfied and 5.4% were slightly dissatisfied.

     (b)   Information About the Project: About 92% stated that they
           were aware of the objectives of reblocking, and in response
           to another question, about, 75% stated that they felt that
           NHA had provided adequate information.

     {c)   Participation in Decision Making: Some 72% of families feel
           that they were given a chance to participate in decision-
           making; 14.5% believe decisions were made by NHA, and 8.0%
           believe that decisions were made by barangay leaders.

     (d)   Satisfaction with Lot Size: Some 55% have expressed high
           satisfaction with their lot size and another 33% have ex-
           pressed slight satisfaction. Only 6% are dissatisfied with
           their lot size (mostly those who suffered decreases in lot
           size).

     {e)   Affordability: When families were asked about their ability
           to pay, some 33% indicated that they could well afford the
           proposed development charges (currently estimated at P0.95
           per square meter per month). Another 55% indicated that they
           would manage. Only three respondents (1.6%) stated that they
           could not afford the proposed charges.

     (f)   Perception of Extent to which the Welfare of Residents has been
           Considered by NHA During the "Reblocking" Process: About 64.5%
           feel that the welfare of residents was to a great extent
           taken into account, and another 31.2% believe that it was to
           some extent taken into account. Only 3.8% believe that it
           was not taken into account at all.

Remaining Risks and Implementation Issues

44.       Foremost among the outstanding issues is the pending revision to
the previously announced policy for establishing the purchase price for land


ll   Percentages for responses to various questions do not total to 100%
     because of either non-response or no opinion expressed.
                                   - 14 -


and the charge for services (see paras 23-29). This issue could continue
to be picked up by some of the more po·litically minded comDUnity groups,
who msy attempt to use bargaining for lower prices as a means of increasing
local support. OUr discussions with a wide range of comDUnity groups, however,
                ' that the formula worked out by NHA will be acceptable to
lead us to believe
the residents and will be seen as fair by them.

45.       Misinformation about the nature of the Project and the attitude of
residents towards the Project continues to persist mostly outside the Philip-
pines. The start of the reblocking process and the assignment of lots to
residents has had a very positive impact on the attitude of the residents
within the Project area. On the other hand, it must be recognized that some
groups will see it in their interests to complain whatever happens. To
improve information about the Project, this status report could be distributed
along with the appraisal report, in response to all serious inquiries.

46.       Other implementation problems exist, but are of a more normal type
for a project of this size and complexity. These relate to staffing, training
and management difficulties and are being discussed with the NBA in the course
of Project supervision.




Urban Projects Department
December 8, 1977
                                                                    Annex 1
                                                                    Page 1 of 2


                 STATISTICAL REVIEW OF TONDO FORESHORE/

                     DAGAT-DAGATAN PROJECT STATUS                             •

                      (As of October 31, 1977)



        Component.                               S t a t u s


Land Reclamation

  1.    Reclamation (Tondo Channel)        Not designed

  2.    Survey                             (1)   Preliminary survey work
                                                 and boring tests on
                                                 Channel;

                                           (2)   Work in progress in re-
                                                 blocking areas

Civil Works

 1.    Surface Drainage                    80% completed; remaining work
                                           depends on the reclamation of
                                           Channel and infrastructures of
                                           the reblocking

 2.    Secondary Water Mains               70% completed, the remainder
                                           to be completed by mid-December

 3.    Interceptor Sewer                   50% completed, the remainder
                                           to be completed by March, 1978

 4.    Tondo Pump Station                  Out for Bids by December 15,
                                           1977

5.     Area I Infrastructures              General Design Work completed;
                                           to be reviewed and updated

 6.    Area II Infrastructures            Designs to be reviewed and
                                          updated

 7.    Area III Infrastructures           Part of this work included in
                                          Area IV, the remainder will go
                                          to a Contractor to be selected
                                          in end-December, 1977

 8.    Area IV Infrastructures             4 blocks in progress and designs
                                           for 4 more given to Contractor
                                                                  Annex·l
                                                                  Page 2 of 2
                                                                                ""
            Co mp o n e n t                    ·s   t a t   u s


      9.   Area V Infrastructures          Design work not commenced,
                                           selection of contractor and
                                           work to commence in January

     10.   Civil Engineering Plant         Bids being evaluated

     11.   Experimental Area Infra-        60% completed, completion
           structures and Core Units       projected in mid-December

     12.   Water Meters                    Preparation of contl'act documents
                                           not yet started
Community Facilities (Tondo)

     1.    Elementary Schools              Designs to ~e completed by late-
                                           November; construction to begin
                                           on January 1978 on A. v. Hernandez,
                                           February for General Lim, and in
                                           March for tne M.L.Q. and Magat
                                           Salamat schools
     2.    High School                     85% complete, completion date
                                           projected in mid-December, 1977
     3.    Tondo Health Center (new)       Completed
     4.    Health Center Upgrade           Designs under review, work expected
                                           to commence early February 1978
     5.    Barangay Recreation and         Design completed
           community center
     6.    Fill Materials                  Materials being supplied on demand
                                           for areas subject to reblocking and
                                           flooding areas
Dagat-Dagatan

     1.    Sewer Interceptor               Phase I completed
     2.    Stabilization Ponds             Plans & Specifications issued to
                                           Contractors: Bids due October 31,
                                           1977
     3.    Phase I Development             25% completed
                                           120 core units completed; extension
                                           possibly granted: To be completed
                                           by end of May, 1978
                                           500 units to be ready by early
                                           December, 1977
4.         Health Center (Annex to Tondo   Design under review
           General Hospital)
                                                                                           Annex 2



                          COMPARISON OF APPRAISAL ESTIMATE WITH CURRENT ESTIMATES




           Project Component
                                          Appraisal                        Current !/
                                                                       As of August 1977

                                         (P million)                     (P million)
I.    Tondo Foreshore

      1.   Land, Reclamation and
           Survey                           12.87                            7.80

      2.    Civil Works                    130.62                          106.80

      3.    Community Facilities             34.45                          40.45

      4.    Model Community                   4.25                           3.96

     5.     Purchase of Civil
            Engineering Plant                 3.81                           3.81

     6.     Land Fill Materials                                              3.80

     7.     Housing Materials loans          13.54                          13.48

     8.     Small Business loaus              3.29                           3.29
                   Sub-Total                 202.82                        183.49


II. Dagat-Dagatan

     1.     Land, Reclamation and
            Survey                           16.79                          16.79

     2.     Civil Works (2000 core
            units)                           16.72                          23.50

     3.     Stabilization Pond                1.82                           8.0    2:./
     4.     Community Facilities              8.12                           2.18

     5.     Housing Material loans           14.27                          14.27

                  Sub-Total                  57.78                          64.74

!/    Not all costs are chargeable to beneficiaries.   See appraisal report for full
      discussion of method of computation of lease rate.
2/    A larger pond capable of serving a larger population will be built.
                                                                           Annex 3


                          I.     Status of Reblocking

                               As of October 1977




           There are a total of 97 blocks in the Tendo Foreshore area,
of which 18 are in the Priority Area.    These 18 plus 9 others from
outside the priority area, a total of 27, are in the process of being
reblocked.    The following chart shows the stages of their rebloc\ing:

          18 Priority Areas + 9 Other Blocks            Completed   In Process

          1.   Collection of Socio-Economic data           27          0
          2.   Preparation of Initial Design               26          1
          3.   Community Deliberation and Approval         26          1
          4.   "Monumenting" i.e. staking of lot
               boundaries                                 11         15
          5.   Movement                                    5         22
          6.   Awarding of Lease Purchase
               Contracts                                    1          5
                                                                          Annex 4
                                                                          Page 1 of 2



                            PROCEDURAL STEPS FOR REBLOCKING


1.        Based on the experience gained in the 1st block, a reblocking
procedure composed of 13 basic steps was developed by the Tondo Project
Office.   The sequential steps are as follows:

Step I.     Block Identification - The Block is identified from the
            structural map of the area and block boundaries are
            established by the architect and surveyor.   Each
            reblocking team works with one block composed of 90-150
            families.
Step II.    Information Campaign - CRIO conducts an information
            campaign through distribution of the "Pahayag", a news-
            letter published by the TFDDP and mass meetings.    The
            information campaign is intended to inform the
            community of the objectives, nature, scope and implications
            of reblocking, the requirements of prospective lot awardees
            and to elicit community participation and involvement.

Step III. Ocular Structural Survey - The structure map is updated to
          ensure that all pertinent data about the block is included.
          The team verifies/identifies the following:

            (a)   structures reflected in the map but not in the block;
            (b)   structures not reflected in the map;
            (c)   tag numbers reflected in the map against actual as
                  claimed by occupants of the structure;
            (d)   present lot size occupied by structure;
            (e)   present structural quality;
            (f)   exact positions of structure;
            (g)   titled lots;
            (h)   block area; and
            (i)   block boundaries.

Step IV.    Census Verification and Interview- A survey of the block is
            undertaken by the Research group to:

            (a)   verify untagged structures and census status of
                  residents of the block;
            (b)   determine affordability levels of households;
            (c)   determine recommended lot size;
            (d)   determine total number of people occupying
                  the structure; and
            (e)   determine place of origin of structure owners.

Step   v.   Verification of Eligibility - Letters of Inquiry
            are sent by the Legal Division of the Project Office
            to the Register of Deeds of various provinces and
            cities requesting information on urban land ownership
                                                                        Annex 4
                                                                        Page 2 of 2


            of household heads and spouses.  Ownership of other urban land
            disqualifies a prospective lot awardee.

Step VI.    Planning of Alternative Designs - The architect prepares
            the preliminary alternative plans to be presented to the
            community, utilizing the data on present occupied lot size
            affordable lot size, recommended lot size and other
            pertinent information gathered from the interviews and
            surveys.   Three alternative plans are designed: Plan A
            which allows for a minimum dislocation; Plan B
            which allows for 25% - 50% dislocation and Plan C which
            provides for regular shaped lots with a uniform lot size
            of about 48 sq. meters.   The alternative designs are
            prepared to provide the community some planning alternatives
            for their consideration.   The community may opt for any of
            the three alternative designs, propose modifications, or
            develop an entirely different plan.

Step VII. Approval of Preliminary Alternative Designs by Project Manager -
          The Project Manager signs the alternative plans to be presented.
          The approval of the plan by the Project Manager signifies the
          approval by NHA of the plan as well as the intention and
          capacity of NHA to implement the plan.

Step VIII. Community Discussion of Block Plans -

            (a)   Plans are presented to the community.
            (b)   People discuss among themselves and with the team the
                  alternatives.
            (c)   People will vote on the alternatives to be chosen.
            (d)   People will propose modifications on the alternative
                  chosen.
            (e)   The architect will consider modifications and make
                  changes accordingly.
            (f)   Project Manager approves revised plan.
            (g)   Revised plan is again discussed with the community.

 Step IX.   Final Subdivision Plan - Surveys computes for exact lot
            areas, prepares technical description of lot and prepares
            final subdivision plan.   Final subdivision plan is
            approved.

 Step X.    Movement Into Assigned Lots - Team assists structure owner in moving
            structures.

 Step XI.   Preparation of Certificate of Awards

            (a)   Estate Management checks if subdivision plan is
                  same as approved by the community.
            (b)   List of proposed lot awardees is prepared.
            (c)   List of proposed lot awardees is endorsed by Project
                  Manager and approved by General Manager and Bureau of
                  Lands Director of Subdivision Plans.
            (d)   Certificates of Awards are prepared.

 Step XII. Awarding of Lots
Movement of house to new site within the block as part of "reblocking" process
Installation of streets and footpaths in three locations within Tondo
Street and Footpath Construction

Bottom photograph shows substantial upgrading of buildings already
underway
Installation o f drainage and paving of street
Sites and Services Units (Fire Wall and Sanitary Core) in vacant land
of former Public Works Compound in Tondo




                Substantial House Under Construction
                                                                                                     M   A   L




                                                                                                                                                   1/J~'"-"--J'~rniDO'ror'\' water main
                                                                                                                                                                            in the project




                                                                                         N   A   V




                                                                                                                                A          L           0    0                      N




                                          PHILIPPINES
MANILA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
   Tondo and Dagat- Dagatan
       Main Infrastructure
                    IBRD
                 PROJECT EXISTING
                 --- -            Main water supply lines
                 ---- -                             Main drainage lines
                 ---            Mofn sewer lines                                                                                                                               \
                 _ /' - - _/L - Roods
                                                   Proposed bridges                                                                                                                \
                                  -+---+--+-       Railways
                                  ===::::::::: Rivers                                                                         ___
                                                                                                                 .... .___ .. _
                                  ··-      ·· - Muntcipal boundaries                                                                ··-..... ...   __
                                                   Proposed primary roads
                                                    (not IBRD project)

                  Nota Rod tone cowers areas of IBRD project
                       Grwv cr.,. hatched ""'as ""' G"""""""nt Funded Noo-IBRD projact
                                                                                                                            M          A           N                    A

        0              200                .(00            600         800      1000

                                                 METERS

         0            200                            600        800         1000
                                            Y4RDS




Tlti• mop IM• bHII pnt{Wed by the
World 8 8'11<"• staff aclu•iwly for


                     --the
the con~ of t h e - . of
tha _ . to ..,ich it /r lttttt:IMtl
The -intttlom this mop
boundaries-non
do not imp/1. on the !Mff of lh•
World 88'11< -    il6 ttffililtar, ttn1
i~t         on the l.,al•t•tu• of
ttn, t.mtlny ,. an1 ondonoment
or .cceptence of NCh ~• .
