CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1282 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Manila Urban Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 9, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 9, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide ad-
ditional assistance towards the financing of the Project under the
Interest Subsidy Fund for the Third Window established by Resolu-
tion No. 75-111 of the Executive Directors of the Bank and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank
(hereinafter called the Intermediate Term Loan Agreement) the Bank
is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000) (herein-
after called the Intermediate Term Loan);
(C) the Borrower and the Bank intend that the proceeds of
this Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan be disbursed pro rata
on the basis of 11:5 ratio;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upcn the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;


﻿-2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the mame
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "DPWTC" means the Borrower's Department of Public Works,
Transportation and Communication;
(b) "NHA" means the National Housing Authority, established
by Presidential Decree No. 757, dated July 31, 1975;
(c) "MWSS" means the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage
System, an agency of the Borrower;
(d) "TFDPO" means the Tondo Foreshore-Dagat-Dagatan Proj-
ect Office of NHA;
(e) "Project Tulungan" means the Borrower's social welfare
programs and services conducted under such name;


﻿-3 -
(f) "MASICAP" means the Medium and Small Industries Coordinated
Action Program of the Borrower's Department of Industry;
(g) "MMC" means the Metropolitan Manila Comission, estab-
lished by Presidential Decree No. 824 of the Borrower, dated No-
vember 7, 1975;
(h) "DBP" means the Development Bank of the Philippines;
(i) "PNB" means Philippines National Bank;
(j) "PBSP" means Philippines Business for Social Progress,
a foundation established under the laws of the Borrower; and
(k) "Letter of Instruction" means the letter of instruction
which the Borrower intends to issue for the implementation of
the Project.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
two million dollars ($22,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required
for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1981
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-5-,
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or
cause the Project to be carried out with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, finan-
cial, engineering and town planning practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist NHA in carrying out
Parts A, B, D and G (i) of the Project, the Borrower shall relend
the proceeds of the Loan and the Intermediate Term Loan allocated
to such Parts of the Project under a subsidiary loan agreement
to be entered between the Borrower and NHA (hereinafter called
the NHA Subsidiary Loan Agreement) under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank which shall include, inter alia, those
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b) In order to assist MWSS in carrying Part C of the Proj-
ect, the Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan and of
the Intermediate Term Loan allocated to such Part of the Project
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and MWSS (hereinafter called the MWSS Subsidiary Loan
Agreement) under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
which shall include, inter alia, those set forth in paragraph 2
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the NHA
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the MWSS Subsidiary Loan Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Bank and to accomplish the purpose of the Loan and, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive any of the said subsidiary loan agree-
ments or any provision of any one thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out Parts F, G (ii), G (iii) and H of the Project, the Bor-
rower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
(b) In order to assist NHA to complete detailed designs and
to supervise construction of the works described in Parts A and B
of the Project, and in carrying out Parts G (i) (1) and G (i) (2)
of the Project, the Borrower shall cause NRA to employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) In order to assist MWSS in carrying out Part C of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause MWSS to employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. In carrying out Part F (6) of the Project, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, not later than December 31,
1976, or such other date as the Bank shall agree, a training pro-
gram in traffic management and engineering satisfactory to the
Bank.


﻿- 8 -
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to re-
place or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Proj-
ect; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Proj-
ect and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.


﻿I9
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE TV
Management and Operation of NHA
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause NHA at all times to
carry on its operations, manage its affairs, plan its future
development and maintain its organization and its financial po-
sition all in accordance with appropriate town planning, finan-
cial and administrative practices, and under the supervision of
experienced and competent management.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause NHA to take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause NHA to establish,
staff and maintain a monitoring and evaluation system which shall,
inter alia, monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause NHA to complete the
organization of TFDPO in a manner satisfactory to the Bank in
a timely manner to ensure the prompt start of implementation of
the Project. Such organization shall have capabilities for,
inter alia:
(i) project design and implem,,,ntation;
(ii) social and support programs; and


﻿- 11 -
(iii) administrative, financial and legal affairs.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause NHA: (i) to maintain
in employment on a full-time basis: (A) a deputy to the general
manager, an officer responsible for financial planning, an officer
responsible for general administration and an officer responsible
for project development; (B) and to maintain in TFDPO an officer
responsible for overall Project management and an officer respon-
sible for financial matters; (ii) to afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to comment on the qualifications and. experience of the
candidates before making any lesignation to such positions except
that of officer responsible for financial matters, before the
Project is completed.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank; and (ii) undertakes that,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall
be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no cost
to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(b) The foregoing representation undertaking shall not apply
to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase price of
such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower in-
cluding the Central Bank of the Philippines or any institution
performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.


﻿- 13 -
(d) The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits
of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the fore-
going undertaking effective with respect to liens on the assets
of its political subdivisions and their agencies, and to the extent
that the Borrower is unable within the limits of the laws in force
in its territories to make this undertaking effective, the Borrower
will give to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carry-
ing out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause NHA to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently main-
tained appropriate accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of NHA.
(b) The Borrower shall cause NHA to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and


﻿(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of NHA and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause NHA to make
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for setting rents or devel-
opment levies on lots developed under Parts A and B of the Proj-
ect at levels which will provide NHA with revenues at least suf-
ficient to provide for the recovery, on reasonable terms and
conditions, of the cost of such development, taking into account:
(i) the revenues expected from the sale or lease of commercial
and industrial property developed under Parts A (5) (a) and B
(4) (a) of the Project; (ii) the amounts provided to NHA pursuant
to the provisions of Section 5.05 of this Agreement; and (iii)
beneficiaries' ability to pay.
Section 5.05. Without any limitation or restriction on the
Borrower's obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall provide to NRA an amount equal to the incremental
costs to NHA of developing the Tondo Foreshore area resulting
from: (i) the construction of highways C-2 and R-10 in the said
area; and (ii) the expansion of the port of Manila in the said
area.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Decree No. 757 of the Borrower dated July 31, 1975 es-
tablishing NHA, or Decree No. 814 of the Borrower dated October 17,
1975, prescribing the land tenure system in the Project area or
the Letter of Instruction shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a manner as to materially
and adversely affect the implementation of the Project or the
carrying out of the Borrower's obligations under this Agreement;
(b) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or disestablishment of NRA or for the suspension of its operations;
(c) the Borrower, NHA or MWSS shall have failed to perform
any of its obligations under the NHA Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or the MWSS Subsidiary Loan Agreement, as the case may be.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
30 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower; and


﻿- 16 -
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the NHA Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and the MWSS Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf of
the parties to such agreements have been authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this
Agreement and to be employed under Parts A, B and G (i) (1) of
the Project have been appointed in accordance with the provisions
of the said Section;
(c) the Letter of Instruction has been issued and has be-
come effective; and
(d) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Intermediate Term Loan Agreement, save for the effectiveness of
this Agreement, shall have been fulfilled.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank:


﻿- 18 -
(a) that the NHA Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and NIA and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and NHA; and
(b) that the MWSS Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and MWSS and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and MWSS.
Section 7.03. The date September 9, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿I
- 19 -
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary of Finance
Department of Finance
Manila, Philippines
Cable address:                Telex:
SECFINANCE                    727550
Manila
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 20 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Imelda Romualdez Marcos
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Robert S. McNamara
President


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
and of the Intermediate Term Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and of the Intermediate
Term Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan and of the
Intermediate Term Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Loan
and of the
Intermediate Term Loan
Allocated             % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works:
(a) under Part C            280,000         60%
of the Project
(b) under Parts A,        5,920,000         30%
B and E of the
Project
(c) under Part F            850,000         30%
of the Project
(2) Equipment and              6,990,000
materials under
Parts A, B and F
of the Project and
equipment, materials
and pharmaceuticals
under Part D of the
Project


﻿- 22 -
Amount of the Loan
and of the
Intermediate Term Loan
Allocated              % of
(Expressed in        Expendities
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(a) directly im-                            100% of foreign
ported items                            expenditures
(b) locally pro-                            65%
cured items
(3) Loans under Parts           1,440,000        60% of the amount
A (3), A (5) (),                            of such loans
B (2) and B (4) (c)
of the Project
(4) Consultants' Ser-          6,210,000         100% of foreign
vices, Technical                             expenditures or
Assistance and                               80% of local
Training                                     expenditures
(5) Unallocated                10,310,000
TOTAL      32,000,000


﻿- 23 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign exDenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan or
of the Intermediate Term Loan, shall be disbursed on account of
payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procure-
ment or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such
taxes levied on or in respect of ary item to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not


﻿- 24 -
exceeding the equivalent of $2,000,000, may be made in respect of
Categories (1), (2) and (4) on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after September 1, 1975.
(b) payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (c),
(2) and (4) with respect to Part F of the Project until the Bor-
rower has employed the consultants referred to in Section 3.03 (a)
of the Loan Agreement to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
said Part F, in accordance with the provisions of the said Section
3.03 (a).
5.   The proceeds of the Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan
shall be disbursed pro rata on the basis of a 11:5 ratio.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan and
of the Intermediate Term Loan or the disbursement percentages set
forth in the tEble in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has reason-
ably estimated chat the amount of the Loan and of the Intermediate
Term Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank my, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated short-
fall, proceeds of the Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan which
are then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion
of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 25 -
7.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.   Tondo Foreshore Infrastructure (to be carried out by NHA,
except as otherwise indicated)
1.   Construction, equipment and materials for the provision
of water supply, sewerage, plumbing, surface-water
drainage, roads, footpaths, and street lighting ser-
vices on about 180 ha of the Tondo Foreshore, to serve
the resident population estimated at 160,000 persons
living in about 15,000 structures after development.
2.   Provision of about 1,000 serviced lots and sanitary
core units on vacant land in the Tondo Foreshore.
3.   Provision by NRA, through DBP, of credit for materials
for home improvement.
4.   Construction and equipment of:
(a) primary schools containing in total about 120
classrooms;
(b) one high school containing about 50 classrooms;
(c) about 25 multipurpose community centers; and


﻿- 27 -
(d) one health center, upgrading of three other such
centers and upgrading of two Project Tulungan
clinics.
5.   Promotion of employment in the Tondo area through:
(a) the development of about 5.7 ha of vacant or re-
claimed land in the Tondo Foreshore for industrial
and commercial use;
(b) the provision by NHA through MASICAP of technical
assistance to small businessmen; and
(c) the provision of credit to small businessmen by
NRA through: (i) DBP; and (ii) at the option of
the NHA., PBSP or PNB.
B.   Dagat-Dagatan Infrastructure (to be carried out by NHA ex-
cept as otherwise indicated)
1.   Construction of water supply, sewerage, surface-water
drainage, roads, footpaths, street lighting services for
about 2,000 serviced lots and core units on about 40 ha
of land in Dagat-Dagatan, being the first phase of a
larger program.
2.   Provision by NHA through DBP of credit for materials
for home improvements.


﻿- 28 -
3.   Construction and equipment of:
(a) primary schools containing in total about 45
classrooms;
(b) three multipurpose community centers; and
(c) one health center.
4.   Promotion of employment in the Dagat-Dagatan area
through:
(a) the development of about 3.5 ha of land for in-
dustrial and commercial use;
(b) the provision by NHA through MASICAP of technical
assistance to small businessmen; and
(c) the provision of credit to small businessmen by
NRA through: (i) DBP; and (ii) at the option of
NRHA, PNB and PBSP.
C.   Improvement by MWSS of the Tondo Sewage Pumping Station and
construction by MWSS of a new outfall sever.
D.   Health Programs common to Tondo and Dagat-Dagatan
The implementation in the Tondo Foreshore area and the
Dagat-Dagatan area of the following health programs,
to be implemented by the agency or agencies indicated


﻿- 29-
after each such program, under the general supervision
of NRA:
(a) training of not less than 300 volunteer medical
officers and community health workers (NHA in
coordination with the Borrower's Department of
Health);
(b) identification and treatment of malnourished
children (NRA and the National Nutrition Council);
(c) training in infant food preparation (National
Nutrition Council and "Project Tulungan");
(d) nutrition education (National Nutrition Council
and National Media Production Center);
(e) immunization of children against the most prevalent
communicable diseases and the detection of tuber-
culosis in children and adults (Department of Health
of the Borrower);
(f) eradication of worms in children (Department of
Health of the Borrower);
(g) vermin and rodent control (Department of Health
of the Borrower);


﻿- 30 -
(h) vitamin and iron supplementation (National Nutri-
tion Council); and
(i) family planning (Population Commission).
E.   Major Road Works in Metropolitan Manila (to be carried out
by the Borrower's Department of Public Highways in coordi-
nation with NRA)
Construction of the following road sections including nec-
essary river channeling works and bridges:
1.   about 2.4 km of the R-10 road to four-lanes;
2.   about 3 km of the R-10 road to two lanes;
3.   about 1.7 km in total of roads C-2 and C-3 to two lanes;
4.   about 0.4 km of major spine road through Dagat-Dagatan
to two lanes; and
5.   two bridges over Estero de Vitas.
F.   Traffic and Transport Improvements in Metropolitan Manila
(to be carried out by the Borrower's Department of Public
Highways except as otherwise indicated)
1.   Provision and installation of about 38 new sets of traffic
signals on new sites and of about 50 new sets on existing
sites and the linking of such 88 traffic signals near
or within the area bounded by circumferencial road C-2;


﻿-31 -
2.   Provision and installation of equipment for a central
traffic control center and of about 400 mobile radio
units for traffic control by police;
3.   Improvement of about 60 road junctions, the painting
of road markings at about 200 junctions and 200 cross-
walks and the installation of traffic signs;
4.   The improvement of about 20 km of footpaths;
5.   Construction of about 150 shelters at bus and jeepney
stops; and
6.   A program of training in traffic management and engi-
neering.
G.   Management, Studies and Training
(i)       NRA
1.   The strengthening of the administration of NRA through
consolidation of the accounts of the organizations it has
amalgamated, the development of its organizational
structure, the setting up of its accounting system and
financial control procedures and establishment of a
management information system;
2.   Feasibility studies by NHA for a second urban develop-
ment project;


﻿- 32 -
(ii)      DPWTC
1. A land use and transportation study by DPWTC to propose:
(a) policies and programs for long-term development
of Metropolitan Manila and its transport system;
(b) policies and programs for the improvement of trans-
port in Metropolitan Manila in the short term; and
(c) an administrative, legal and financial framework
for policy and project implementation.
(iii)     DPWTC for MMC
1. A study to:
(a) review the revenue base of local jurisdictions in
the Manila metropolitan area and to propose alter-
native sources of finance for the metropolitan
government and the local jurisdictions;
(b) recommend appropriate institutional arrangements
for the provision of integrated municipal services;
and
(c) propose improvements to the administration of the
property tax through the development of a program
to improve the classification of real property, im-
prove the quality of assessment and improve col-
lection of billings.


﻿- 33 -
2.   Training and fellowships.
3.   A two-year program of cadastral surveys.
H.   A program of technical assistance to assist the Borrover
in: (i) transport planning coordination and operations in-
cluding fellovships and training and; (ii) revising the
Borrower's transport infrastructure investments for the
next four years and in carrying out a national transport
s ystem study.
*               e          e
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1981.


﻿-34-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
November 15, 1981                                   300,000
May 15, 1982                                       315,000
November 15, 1982                                  325,00)
May 15, 1983                                        340,000
November 15, 1983                                   355,000
May 15, 1984                                       370,000
November 15, 1984                                   385,000
May 15, 1985                                       400,000
November 15, 1985                                  420,000
May 15, 1986                                        435,000
November 15, 1986                                   455,000
May 15, 1987                                        475,000
November 15, 1987                                  495,000
May 15, 1988                                        515,000
November 15, 1988                                   535,000
May 15, 1989                                        560,000
November 15, 1989                                   585,000
May 15, 1990                                        610,000
November 15, 1990                                   635,000
May 15, 1991                                        660,000
November 15, 1991                                   690,000
May 15, 1992                                        720,000
November 15, 1992                                   750,000
May 15, 1993                                        780,000
November 15, 1993                                   8159000
May 15, 1994                                        850,000
November 15, 1994                                   885,000
May 15, 1995                                        925,000
November 15, 1995                                   960,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 35 -
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
May 15, 1996                                      1,005,000
November 15, 1996                                 1,045,000
May 15, 1997                                      1,C90,000
November 15, 1997                                 1,135,000
May 15, 1998                                      1,80,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 36 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years                    1-1/4%
before maturity
More than three years but not more           2-1/2%
than six years before maturity
More than six years but not more             4-1/2%
than eleven years before
maturity
More than eleven years but not               6-3/4%
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not              7-1/2%
more than twenty years
before maturity
More than twenty years before                8-1/2%
maturity


﻿- 37 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Non-Philippine contractors will not be required to register
in the Philippines as a condition of bidding on a contract. Where
said registration is required of a non-Philippine contractor
after he has been awarded a contract, the Borrower shall take
such action as shall be practicable to facilitate his registra-
tion.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for: (i) materials and equipment (except as pro-
vided in paragraph B (2) hereof) expected to cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000; (ii) for house building materials to be
financed through DBP; and (iii) for civil works expected to cost
less than the equivalent of $1,000,000, shall be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with the Borrower's procedures.


﻿- 38 -
2.   Contracts for equipment, materials and vehicles for small
industry and business, to be financed through DBP, PBSP or PNB,
expected to cost less than the equiva lent of $100,000 shall be
procured in accordance with regulations for such contracts to
be established by the said institutions in agreement with NHA.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and si
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Philippines may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿- 39 -
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Philippines if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in the Philippines equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Philippines.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-


﻿- 4o -
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to contracts for civil works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $250,000 or more and with respect to contracts
for equipment and materials expected to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report by the consultants referred to in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
of the said consultants and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidel-..nes or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for, withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for


﻿- 42 -I
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


﻿SCHEDULE 5
Terms and Condition of
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
1.   NHA Subsidiary Loan Agreement:
tezm: 22 years including 5 years of grace; interest:
8-1/2% per annum.
2.   MWSS Subsidiary Loan Agreement:
term: 22 years including 5 years of grace; interest:
8-1 /2% per annum.


