Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25262
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-403 10)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$39 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
VENEZUELA
FOR WATER AND SEWERAGE DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
December 27, 2002
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Latin America and Caribbean Region
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective Nov. 30, 2002)
Currency Unit = Venezuelan Bolivar (VEB)
VEB I = US$ .00076
US$ 1.00 = 1321.75 VEB
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AdM           Monagas Water and Sewerage Company
B/C:          Benefit/Cost ratio
CAS:          Country Assistance Strategy
GOV:          Government of Venezuela
HIDROVEN      Venezuelan Hydrological Corporation
IDB           Inter American Development Bank
IMF           Internatonal Monetary Fund
IRR:          Internal rate of return
MARNR         Ministero de Ambiente y Recursos Naturales Renovables (Ministry of the
Environment
NGO:          Non-governmental organization
NPV:          Net present value
OED:          Operations Evaluation Department of the World Bank
PROPAMAR: Rural Rehabilitaton and Participatory Management Program
PSP:          Private sector participaton
SAR:          Staff appraisal report
WS&S:         Water supply and sanitation
Vice President:  David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director:  Abel Mejfa
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    John Henry Stein



VENEZUELA
MONAGAS WATER
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               7
6. Sustainability                                                                   9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 12
9. Partner Comments                                                                13
10. Additional Information                                                         15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              24






Project ID: P008224                                       Project Name: MONAGAS WATER
Team Leader: John Henry Stein                             TL Unit: LCSFP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 27, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: MONAGAS WATER                                  L/C/TFNumber: SCL-40310
Country/Department. VENEZUELA                                            Region* Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: Water supply (41%); Sewerage (41%); Central
government administration (15%); Sub-national
government administration (3%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   05/03/1991                             Effective: 12/23/1996
Appraisal:  05/16/1996                                MTR. 09/30/1998           04/27/1999
Approval:  06/04/1996                              Closing: 12/31/2000          02/28/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency* GOVERNMENT/Aguas de Monagas & HIDROVEN
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                         J. Burki
Country Manager:     Isabel Guerrero                           P. Eisenman
Sector Manager:      Abel Mejia
Team Leader at ICR:  John Henry Stein                          John Henry Stein and Manuel Marino
ICR Primary Author:  Jean-Pierre Florentin and Thelma
Triche
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=HIghly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time. Yes



3. Assessment of Developmenmt Objective and Desigm, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Context
In 1991, as part of a general decentralization process, the government of Venezuela (GOV) created ten
regional water utility companies (HIDROs) under the ownership of a central holding company,
HIDROVEN. The HIDROs were charged with providing urban water and sanitation (WS&S) services and
operating rural systems serving communities of 1,000 to 5,000 residents. (Smaller rural systems operated
by the Ministry of Health and Social Assistance were transferred to the respective state public works
departments.) It was originally planned that after two years, the ownership and control of the regional
operators would be transferred to the state and municipal governments; but by 1996 ownership and
responsibility had not been transferred, the legal framework lacked coherence, with overlapping
responsibilities and authorities, and decision making remained defacto highly centralized within a complex
and uncoordinated national institutional framework. The sector lacked clear policies, strategies and
regulatory mechanisms. Despite the national government's stated policy that tariffs should cover the full
cost of service, cost recovery remained deficient.
Prior to the project, efforts to promote private sector participation (PSP) in water services had not been
successful. The regional operators had outsourced technical operations to a myriad of small private
operators, but had lacked the capacity to manage and coordinate the contracts, which were in reality merely
manpower contracts. In 1990 - 1992 HEIDROVEN had attempted to attract private operation of water
services in Caracas under a concession scheme. The arrangement proved unattractive to the private
sector--due to the poor prospects for cost recovery and the lack of clarity in the institutional
framework--and failed when no bids were presented.
In 1995 HIDROVEN and the Bank agreed to prepare a project to support the decentralization process and
private sector participation on a limited pilot basis in the state of Monagas. At the time, WS&S services in
Monagas were managed as a division of HIDROCARIBE which was also responsible for the states of
Nueva Esparta, Sucre and Anzoategui. HIDROCARIBE had one of the poorest records in the country for
efficiency, so the potential for improvement was substantial. A new company, Aguas de Monagas (AdM)
had been created by state and municipal authorities to provide the services in Monagas State, but had not
yet begun to operate.
Original Objective
The project's principal objective was to increase the efficiency and quality of WS&S services in Venezuela
through the development of a model for decentralization of services, institutional strengthening at both the
national and decentralized levels, and expanded private sector participation. Specific objectives were to:
a. Strengthen Aguas de Monagas (AdM), develop its financial self-sufficiency, and involve the private
sector in the management and operation of the company through a management contract,
b. Rehabilitate and improve the quality of WS&S services in Monagas, and
c. Support sector development and decentralization, including water resources management, at the
national level.
Assessment
Project objectives were consistent with those articulated in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of
November 4, 1993, which were to:
a. Advance the structural reform process and improve macroeconomic management,
b. Strengthen human resource development and poverty alleviation programs,
c. Strengthen government institutions at the central and local levels,
- 2-



d. Reform and rehabilitate key infrastructure sectors, and
e. Promote private sector participation.
It was acknowledged that the project environment was somewhat risky (medium risk rating). The following
risks were identified: an unpredictable macroeconomic situation which could affect the availability of
counterpart funds and delay tariff adjustments, weak sector institutional capacity, the absence of a payment
culture which could hinder commercial and financial performance, and the possibility of decreased political
support. Given the circumstances, a limited and practical approach to reform was deemed prudent. The
GOV's recent agreement with the IMF was expected to mitigate the macroeconomic risks. In addition, the
project was designed to limit risks by focusing primarily on the promising environment in Monagas State
while pursuing institutional strengthening and sector reforms at the national level. It was expected that a
successful outcome would help to promote effective decentralization and pave the way for more widespread
PSP.
Monagas State was selected for the following reasons: (i) there was a high degree of political commitment
to decentralization at the state level; (ii) WS&S services in Monagas were self-contained, i.e., all assets
used to provide services in the state were located within the state borders and none of the assets were used
to provide services to another state; (iii) there was significant potential for improvements in financial
performance due to growing demand and an acceptable level of willingness to pay; and (iv) most of the
rivers that are the sources and recipients of water for WS&S originate and discharge into the sea within the
state, thus facilitating the decentralized resolution of water resources management issues. A management
contract was chosen because it was less risky than a concession and because the national legal and
regulatory environment was considered inadequate for a successful concession.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objective was not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The Regional Component
(a) Institutional strengthening and support to AdM, including: operational management services,
equipment, consultant services and systems to improve commercial practices, a public information
campaign, a survey-of customer satisfaction, preparation for a subsequent PSP arrangement, and
project evaluation
(b) Rehabilitation of infrastructure in urban areas of Monagas State, including: emergency works, priority
rehabilitation works, and works for the improvement of service quality
(c) Institutional development and rehabilitation of rural water systems in Monagas State, including:
investments in civil works, equipment and materials for improvement and some expansion of systems,
and technical assistance, to be provided by an NGO, for coordination and administration the Rural
Rehabilitation and Participatory Management Program (PROPAMAR)
The National Institutional Component
(a) Technical assistance program to support the implementation of a new sector legal and regulatory
framework, including: the definition of a new sector organizational structure; creation of a management
information system in HIDROVEN; preparation of sector standards; formulation of policies for water
resources management, the management of rural water systems, and private sector participation; and
studies, equipment and consulting services to create a Users' Hydrographic Confederation in the river
basins of Monagas State
(b) National training program to: increase technical capacity in both national and local governments;
- 3-



improve technical and managerial skills of WS&S service providers; and promote public awareness of
the need for rational management of water resources and a commercial approach to WS&S.
(c) Sector decentralization program to prepare at least four new projects replicating the model developed in
Monagas
(d) Consulting services to assist HIDROVEN to manage the national component and coordinate the overall
project.
Assessment
The components were consistent with the project objectives and were clearly defined so as to target priority
needs and enhance the probability of success. Safeguards were incorporated to promote the achievement of
key objectives. Given the volatile political environment and the lack of clear sector policies, preparation
included activities aimed at building commitment to the project design. Consultations and workshops were
held with the key political actors such as representatives of the rural communities and mayors of the cities.
Willingness-to-pay studies produced results that were considered consistent with the cost recovery
objectives. The project included conditionality aimed at promoting the achievement of key objectives. For
example, funding for the priority rehabilitation works was conditioned on the signing of the management
contract with a private operator and funding of works for the improvement of service quality was linked to
the achievement of performance indicators.
3.4 Revised Components:
The National Component was revised to provide US$ I million for works, goods and equipment for water
systems targeted for decentralization and PSP (approved by the World Bank in January, 1999), in order to
promote a successful transition and prevent a deterioration in performance during the interim. When the
NGO contracted to administer the PROPAMAR component failed to achieve concrete results, it was agreed
that AdM would assume management of this component. These revisions did not qualify as a restructuring
of the project.
The Mid-term Review Report of 06/17/1999 identified the need to restructure both the Regional and the
National components and to extend the closing date. However, a delay in the preparation of the national
budget and political friction following the change in national government in 1999 delayed the preparation of
the necessary documentation. The last Aide Memoire of December 2000 reiterated the need for revisions
and an extension of the closing date to the end of 2001. The deadline for compliance with the conditions of
the extension was extended to February 28, 2001. The required documentation and actions to be taken were
described and time-table for submission of the official request was worked out. However, the GOV did not
implement all the requirements prior to the deadline, and the loan was closed.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated satisfactory. Project objectives were consistent with the CAS and were clearly
defined. There were no implications regarding Bank Safeguard Policies. Project components were
appropriate for achieving the objectives. It was acknowledged that the existing economic and political
environment was problematic and measures to mitigate the risks, including stakeholder consultation, were
built into the preparation process and the project design. However, some of the project's key outcome
indicators, as well as the performance targets that were included in AdM's performance contract and the
private operator's management contract, were too high. This was due in part to a delay in the start-up of the
project. In addition, AdM's operational and financial targets had been set on the basis of estimated baseline
performance levels for 1995 that proved to be significantly higher than actual audited performance when
the private operator assumed management in 1997. A design flaw of the project was that there was no
provision for the indicators to be revised after the actual baseline levels at the time of project start-up were
-4 -



known. As a result, despite significant improvements on many indicators, results fell far short of targets.
During the mid-term review, it was agreed that the indicators should be adjusted to reflect the actual
conditions at project start-up, while retaining the same pace of improvements as originally envisaged.
However, as mentioned above, the proposed revisions were never implemented.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project outcome is considered unsatisfactory despite the fact that many of the objectives were achieved
and the remainder were partially achieved. The project progressed satisfactorily until late 2000 despite
some delays and political turmoil and changes in key staff. At that time it was believed that all major
objectives could be achieved and a positive outcome would result if the project were extended for an
additional year. However, ultimately it became clear that the new government was not committed to the
objectives of the project and, in addition, it failed to carry out all the steps necessary to extend the loan. As
a result, the achievements were not consolidated and there was no follow-through.
Strengthening of the management andfinancial performance ofAdM
A management contract was signed with a private operator and successfully implemented. The financial
performance of Aguas de Monagas (AdM) improved significantly. The collection rate improved from 29%
in 1996 to 48% in 2000--quite an accomplishment in light of the country's macroeconomic and political
difficulties. Collections were nevertheless far short of the 80% target in the SAR, which had been based on
a much higher estimated starting level of 64 percent. Due to the very low commercial and financial
performance levels when the management contract started-much lower than estimated at appraisal--the
original financial targets (including the capacity to reimburse the loan) were not met. The development of
local capacity was effective. After the first year of the contract only two expatriates remained on the
operator's team. Unfortunately, following the change in government in 1999, new personnel were hired for
the key positions and those who had received training eventually left.
Improvement in the quality of WS&S service in Monagas
Although only 66% of the urban rehabilitation works were completed, the quality of WS&S services in
Monagas improved substantially. The average number of service hours per day increased from 11 to 21,
and 100 % of water was chlorinated. Unaccounted water was reduced substantially from the audited level
of 73% in 1996 to 55% in 2000. It seemed likely that, had the loan been extended, the SAR target of 40%
could have been achieved. The rual component, PROPAMAR, experienced a long delay due to start-up
problems and only 18% of the budget was disbursed. After the restructuring of its management, it became a
successful and sustainable program model. despite the low level of investrnents, about 35,000 people
benefited, compared to the original target of 42,000. This was possible because during implementation it
was found that very little new infrastructure was needed. Rather the main constraints to service were
management and maintenance issues. Significant improvements in service resulted from the creation of
adequate institutional structures and arrangements for cost-recovery.
Sector development
Progress in sector development, decentralization and water resources management was delayed and only
partially achieved. A scheme for water resources management in Monagas was developed but not
implemented. Seven national standards were issued, more than the four that were projected. Lara State
water company had been established and engaged a private sector operator with support from IDB and
three additional regional companies and one municipal company were established. However, the new
national government showed no interest in pursuing further PSP.
- 5-



4.2 Outputs by components:
Institutional strengthening and support to AdM:
AdM became the first truly decentralized water company in Venezuela and the private sector was
successfully involved in water services, also for the first time in the country. The four-year management
contract brought commercial, accounting and management systems and procedures that contributed to
significant improvements in the company's performance. The capacity of local staff to run the company
was improved through an aggressive training program: by the end of the first year, there were only two
expatriates on the management team. State authorities had decided to pursue a concession of the service
through international competitive bidding and some preparatory work had begun.
Adequate tariffs were maintained throughout project implementation. Because of the high rate of inflation,
adjustments were sometimes implemented on a monthly basis to avoid the shock of large increases. While
significant improvements were achieved in billing and collection processes, cost-recovery remained
problematic due to the lack of political support.
Rehabilitation of infrastructure in urban areas of Monagas State
Emergency works, priority rehabilitation works, and works for the improvement of service quality totaling
US$ 21.6 million were completed in the 12 urban areas of the state.
Institutional development and rehabilitation of rural water systems in Monagas State
Rural water systems were rehabilitated in 25 communities which included 35,000 residents and were
successfully managing the systems throughjuntas de agua. An additional 13 communities had organized
juntas de agua and were awaiting the allocation of resources for rehabilitation works. Another 11
communities had initiated the process of organization and technical assessment The innovative use of an
NGO to coordinate and administer PROPAMAR was not successful. The NGO's social consultation was
robust, but it lacked the necessary managerial and technical capacity to prepare and coordinate
rehabilitation projects. This resulted in a two-year delay in works. After AdM hired the social specialists.
and assuned management of the program in 1999, implementation improved significantly and demand for
the program was strong. AdM reclassified peri-urban systems as urban (rather than rural) bringing them
under the management of AdM, and subject to AdM's tariffs. The remaining rural systems were given the
option to be served through urban operations under the direct management of AdM, and be subject to the
urban tariffs, or to form juntas de agua to operate their own systems. Since recurrent costs were assumed
by the communities, the program did not create a financial burden for the govermnent or AdM.
Recognizing these benefits, the management of HIDROVEN at the time (1999) had decided to adopt the
PROPAMAR approach for a national rural water improvement program.
The National Institutional Component
Progress was slower than expected although some results were achieved on most of the key targets. Six
regional WS&S systems were decentralized and in one case the private sector was engaged under a
management contract (supported by the IDB). Seven national technical norms for water and sanitation
services were issued. The design of a water users' organization in Monagas was completed, but the
organization was not created. HIDROVEN drafted a new water services law (which was eventually
adopted).
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Adequate data were not available to conduct an economic analysis. Economic results have been estimated
on the basis of the percentage of the targets achieved. The following table presents results for the support to
AdM and the rehabilitation of infrastructure in Monagas state. Details are provided in Annex 3.
- 6 -



Appraisal                Estimated Actual
NPV (US $ millions)      30.7                        22.6
IIRR (percent)            27.0                        28.8
Benefit/cost ratio       1.71                         1.8
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial rate of return was not calculated for the project.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project was minimal. At the national level, several new
standards were adopted, but there is no coherent regulatory framework for enforcing them. The new sector
law confirmed the responsibility of municipalities for providing water and sanitation services. However,
HIDROVEN continues to play a key role in the provision of services through its regional entities, since the
joint municipal-state arrangement that was implemented under the project has not been formalized. Thus
the desired demonstration impact of the model was not achieved. Finally, the new law allows only for
concession arrangements with private operators, since the authorities believed that a management contract
did not transfer adequate risk to the private operator. Nevertheless, a private operator was awarded an
operational contract (that appears to be a cross between a management contract and a lease contract) in
Maracaibo, the second largest city of Venezuela. However, this innovative approach to improve
operational and commercial practices in one of the most important states of the country was terminated by
HIDROVEN before its term. At the regional level, when the management contract in Monagas state
terminated, the authorities who had expressed interest in pursuing a concession were no longer in power
and the idea died. It is not known whether the new public managers have continued to use the management
and cost-recovery systems that were installed. The government's completion report indicated that there were
some problems with the "information systems."
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The sharp decrease in the international price of oil in 1998-1999 decreased public revenues. As a result
counterpart funds were restricted. The flooding of the coast near Caracas in December, 1999 caused
30,000 to 50,000 deaths and further strained government resources. HIDROVEN dedicated practically all
its capacity to dealing with the disaster during the year 2000, and its ability to focus on the national sector
reforms was thus significantly reduced.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Political tensions, a complicated political transfornation, and almost continuous rounds of elections and the
preparation and adoption of a new Constitution during the period December 1998 to July 2000 disrupted
the project. In this environment, the government failed to formulate sector policies and support the reform.
The changes in both national and state government led to frequent staffing changes and lack of continuity at
HIDROVEN, in the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources and AdM. (There were four different
governors of Monagas State, including one who fled the country under charges of corruption, five
presidents of HIDROVEN, and six presidents of AdM.)
Mayors of some of the secondary cities (outside the capital city, Maturin) seriously compromised the
- 7-



ability of AdM to collect revenues when, for political reasons, they encouraged residents not to pay their
bills and applied political pressure on AdM to continue to provide service. This prevented the operator from
achieving the cost-recovery targets. Finally, political tension between the central and state authorities
developed because Monagas state government belonged to the opposition party. This resulted in the
blockage of national counterpart funds to the project in the latter half of 2000. Another outcome of this
tension was that the authorities could not reach full agreement on the restructuring of the project and as a
result the national government failed to act on the request to extend the loan's closing date, despite frequent
prodding by AdM and Bank staff.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
AdM management functioned reasonably well under difficult political circumstances, frequent changes in
top management, and the unfavorable financial and commercial conditions. The Junta Directiva approved
inflation adjustments (sometimes on a monthly basis) throughout the project so as to maintain tariffs at
appropriate levels. It also had the authority to approve the policy of cutting off service to customers that
were in arrears.
HIDROVEN performed well until 1999 when a management team that was loyal to the Chavez government
took over. Whether management was distracted and overwhelmed by the political situation and the coastal
floods, or was simply not committed to the project, it was unable to ensure that all necessary steps were
taken to extend the project.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Although the urban rehabilitation priorities and scope were revised after the private operator took over,
there were no significant changes in costs that affected the project outcome. The schedule for implementing
PROPAMAR was unrealistic given the challenges of developing and launching a new institutional and
financial approach to rural water supply.
Initial disbursements were slow due to delays in the preparation of projects and the fact that the conditions
of disbursements were not fulfilled until June 1997, six months after effectiveness. Disbursements
accelerated in 1998 and made up for the slow start but fell again when, in 1999, the GoV restricted
spending, even though in some cases the funds were already available. The flow of funds picked up again in
early 2000, but in June 2000 the flow of national counterpart funds ceased, leaving US $14 million of the
loan unused. At that point was expected that a one-year extension (of the original four-year project) would
have been sufficient to complete the project. The undisbursed balance was cancelled when the loan closed
on December 31, 2000. The profile of disbursements is shown below.
-8-



Investment Disbursments
us $
5,000,000-
4,000,000                                                  * Consulting
3,000,000-     X       |        .                            Goods
2,000,000-                                                 0 Work
1,000,000,
0- ~ ~ ~
1997     1998     1999     2000     2001
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Until late 1999, the project showed promise of successful implementation and sustainability. The Monagas
State authorities were ready to pursue a concession arrangement. The most serious threat to sustainability
of improvements in AdM was the failure of local governments to comply with their financial commitments
and support tariff policy. However this problem might have been overcome had the national component
been successfully implemented. There was reason to believe that, had the political situation stabilized to the
point that the project could have been completed, the management contract would been followed by a
concession. The failure to implement the national component and the prolonged and continuing political
turmoil has undermiined sustainability. The staff who were trained by the private operator have all left
AdM, and it is not likely that the culture on non-payment for services will be reversed in the current
environment. The advances achieved during the project are therefore not likely to be sustained, nor was a
framework that would promote sustainability established.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Under the circumstances, there are no transition plans. Should conditions improve to the point that a new
operation could be initiated, an assessment would need to be made of how the accomplishments of the
project could provide a foundation for going forward.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The studies carried out during preparation and appraisal were detailed and relevant, and were consistent
with World Bank Policy. These included:
*      Willingness-to-pay studies in both urban and rural areas.
*      A health study to establish a baseline for measuring project impact (Unfortunately the Government
did not permit a follow up study at the conclusion of the project.)
The development of a legal and institutional structure, through a complex series of contracts, to
overcome the lack of an appropriate legal and institutional framework.
- 9-



Workshop consultations with the major stakeholders were held in an effort to ensure an appropriate project
design and build commitment.
Project design was based on an integrated approach that incorporated components to address the sector
policy, institutional and legal framework; the management, operation and financial sustainability of
services; as well as water resources management An innovative approach for rural WS&S that included
community involvement in both planning and operations was developed. The watershed management
approach included user participation and the creation of a user's confederation.
Because of the lack of data, the baseline performance levels were inaccurate, but there was no recognition
of this problem, or provision for verifying the baseline data, in the project design.
An effort was made to incorporate lessons learned from previous Bank lending projects and research.
Experiences in Venezuela and in several other countries of the region, as well as the OED evaluation of
lending in the water sector, and the Bank's 1993 Policy Paper on Water Resources Management were cited
in the appraisal report to justify the design of the project.
AdM's lack of experience in both operations and dealing with a private operator was addressed by funding
an international consultant to assist AdM to monitor the performance of the private operator.
Finally, cooperation between the World Bank and the IDB resulted in complementary projects that
promoted the same objectives.
The Bank's performance in preparation and appraisal was satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision.
Supervision was pro-active and resulted in a collaborative and flexible approach to problem-solving which
was sustained until the last six months before the closing date when the political situation created an
unproductive environment. At the same time, the Bank team demonstraed a finn commitment to basic
principles. Emphasis was placed on ensuring that tariffs and revenues were adequate. As a result, the real
value of the tariffs was maintained throughout implementation through frequent inflation adjustments
(sometimes on a monthly basis). When the NGO contracted to administer the PROPAMAR project did not
perform as expected, it was agreed that AdM would hire social specialists and take over management The
program then progressed well. In its zeal to demonstrate the importance of enforcing contracts with private
operators, the Bank supported the imposition of penalties when the private operator did not meet the targets
for the first year. The private operator complied, but all parties subsequently agreed that the targets for
future years should be adjusted to reflect the original baseline performance levels. When lack of support
from the secondary cities persisted in undermining the financial viability of the company, the Bank insisted
that investments in those cities cease until cost-recovery targets were met. Earlier action on this matter
would have been more effective since significant investrnents had already been completed before the
financial conditions were imposed.
The number of Bank supervision missions averaged 2.7 per year, and the interval between missions was
never more than 6 months, except during the last year. Aide Memoires and project status reports were
thorough and consistently documented decisions, progress and follow-up on the key issues from one
supervision mission to another. There was a remarkable continuity of the Bank's team during all the phases
of the project
-10-



Number of days between missions
250-
200-
150 -                            m Number of days
100                                between
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
At Mid-term review the Bank contracted an independent consultant to evaluate the project as a whole and
a consultants to evaluate consumer satisfaction and the access and affordability of services for the urban
poor. These provided a basis for some of the revisions and refinements that followed.
Until late- 1999, the project progressed satisfactorily but it was already clear that an extension of the
closing date would be needed to compensate for delays in implementation and the political turmoil. It was
also recognized that aggressive action was needed to address AdM's financial performance, in particular
the failure of municipalities to meet their financial obligations, and to develop an adequate sector policy and
institutional framework at the national level. These points were elaborated in the aide memoire of
November 1999. In the meantime, the Bank continued to support the transition from a management
contract to a concession in Monagas, and hired consultants to carry out legal studies aimed at resolving
some of the still-persistent problems with the legal framework.
In April 2000, it was clear that the project required restructuring and it was classified as a problem project.
A Bank mission defined the conditions for the extension of the closing date. These included: a) a formal
request for project extension from the Ministry of Finance; b) a revised disbursement plan; c) reformulation
of the National Budget to provide adequate counterpart funds; d) signature of the amendments to the loan
contract; and e) implementation of an action plan for the payment of arrears by both the State and the
municipalities and the development of a new tariff structure. A mission in November-December, 2000
reiterated the steps that needed to be taken and called attention to the impending deadline. The deadline for
submitting the request was extended by 60 days. When the authorities again failed to take any action, it
was obvious that the political will to set the project on tract to achieve its objectives and ensure
sustainability was lacking. The project therefore closed on February 28, 2001.
The Bank's performance during supervision is rated satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The Bank's overall perfornance was satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
During preparation, the Venezuelan project team worked very closely and collaboratively with the Bank
team. There was a high coincidence of objectives and strategies. Borrower performance during preparation
was satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Several levels of government were involved and performance was mixed. At the national level, the
- 1 1 -



government failed to take key steps to promote the formulation of policy, institutional and regulatory
reforms for the sector. The chaotic political environment and frequent changes of decision makers within
the Ministry and the management of HIDROVEN severely hindered progress and undernined the
sustainability of the project. The national govermnent did not take full advantage of the project's resources
to support its legal and policy reforms, although it did give Bank staff an opportunity to review and
comment on a proposed new sector law. No action was taken to implement the water resources
management framework or to create the users' confederation in Monagas. Finally, the national
govemrnment's failure to meet the conditions for extending the closing date prevented the completion of those
project components which were progressing satisfactorily and the restructuring of those that were stalled.
At the state level, support for the project was generally strong. However the tension between the state and
national governments and their inability to reach a compromise regarding the way forward contributed to
the failure to extend the closing date. At the municipal level, the authorities of the city of Maturin were
supportive and generally met their obligations, but the other cities' failure to meet their financial obligations
undermined the project.
The government's performance during implementation is rated unsatisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Until June 2000, HIDROVEN managed the national component well and had a constructive and
collaborative relationship with the other involved parties, i.e., AdM and the Bank. Following the change of
government, HlDROVEN's new management team did not support the project objectives and delayed the
disbursement of funds to AdM, an action that directly contributing to AdM's inability to meet performance
indicators.
AdM managed its components extremely well and made significant improvements in both financial
performance and service quality, in spite of the very unfavorable financial and political environment.
The Implementing agencies' performance is rated marginally satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance was unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1   Importance ofcoherent sector policies, legalframework and institutional structure
The experience of this project demonstrates that the absence of coherent sector policies, a supportive legal
framework and an effective institutional structure (in which the actors' roles are clearly defined and their
authority is respected) makes it very difficult to implement even a well-designed and fairly limited pilot
project The complicated system of eleven contracts that were required to create AdM and hire a private
operator did not create an effective substitute for an effective sector framework. An alternative and perhaps
more sustainable approach would be to address the policy, legal and institutional framework first, along
with an public consultation and awareness carnpaign to gain broad-based support. The Adaptable Program
Lending (APL) approach would be appropriate in such an environment.
8.2   Importance of a broadpolitical concensus
The models adopted for the provision of basis services need broad-based acceptance that transcends
political and ideological viewpoints. Otherwise, when government changes, there will be little political
- 12 -



support for the models. Since private participation in water services is usually politically sensitive, it is
important that it be associated explicitly with service improvements for the poor. Such an approach may
help to gamer support despite changes in governments, though it is not likely that it would have made much
difference to the outcome of this project.
8.3    The importance ofconfirming baseline performance levels
Unrealistically high performance indicators resulted in the operator's failure to meet targets and created
tension between Adm's Junta Directiva and the operator. In fact the operator's performance was very
good, given the actual start-up conditions. This problem could have been rectified either by allowing for a
renegotiation of targets when the actual baseline levels are known, or by defining a curve of progress for
the key indicators, and adjusting the starting point after the first year of operations. Despite the recognition
that the baseline levels had been overestimated, politicians used the failure of the operator to meet the
targets as an argument for not paying bills and ultimately against private sector participation.
8.4    Benefits and limits ofprivate operation during a period ofpolitical instability
In an environment of political turmoil in which government officials and staffs changed frequently, the
management contract provided some stability for the water services in Monagas and produced significant
improvements in commercial/financial performance and service quality. However, the failure of the
government to adopt appropriate policies and create a coherent legal and institutional framework and the
loss of political support undermined the sustainability of the improvements that were achieved.
8.5   Importance of linking investments to compliance with obligations at each political level
The failure of the political authorities in the secondary cities of Monagas to support the tariff policy
undermined the financial viability of AdM. Since local governments are responsible for water and
sanitation services in many Latin American countries, it is not only imperative to consult with them and
gain their commitment during project preparation (as was done in this case), it is also prudent to link the
implementation of investments that benefit each city to the city's compliance with its commitments.
8.6    The value of decisive action in the face of government inaction
The project team and regional management appear made adequate concessions and provided an appropriate
level of assistance to the government in light of the difficulties it was facing during implementation. On
several occasions the project team worked out the steps that needed to be taken to restructure the project
and extend the closing date. In light of the government's persistent failure to take the required action, the
closing of the project can be seen as a positive action that prevented the further deterioration of project
performance.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Following is a summary of the main text of the Project Completion Report submitted by HIDROVEN on
December 31, 2001.
Objectives
The detailed objectives and components of the project are listed (consistent with those presented in Section
3 above).
- 13 -



Strategy of the Bank and of the Country
The Country's Strategy
Within the framework of its macroeconomic stabilization program, the Government's strategy was to
decentralize services; strengthen local management capacity; develop a modem institutional and regulatory
framework; increase public investment with an initial emphasis on rehabilitation; improved access to water
and sanitation services by the poor; increase sewerage and wastewater treatment; and finally improve
efficiency and private sector participation. Despite the creation of ten regional HIDROS, services continued
to be highly centralized and dependent on a complex institutional structure with many actors at all levels of
govemment. In 1993 the government introduced a significant increase in the price of water and a new tariff
structure (including seven categories of users) with the objective of providing adequate revenues to the
water companies. Automatic adjustments to reflect inflation were established. Finally a charge for sewerage
service equal to 10 % of the water tariff was introduced.
The World Bank's Strategy
The World Bank's Strategy, as encapsulated in the 1993 Infrastructure Strategy Study was to reform the
role of the public sector, create a regulatory framework to assure efficiency and promote private sector
participation.
Achievement of Objectives and Results
The project is rated highly unsatisfactory. It did not achieve its most relevant objectives and did not have
any impact with regard to the country's development strategy. Among the problems cited in support of this
conclusion are the following: The management of AdM had complete autonomy with regard to the use of
project funds and the Board of Directors was not consulted. There appear to have been a number of
accounting irregularities and misuse of funds. An audit of the infrastructure showed that some of the works
initiated under the project had deteriorated and maintenance of the completed works was inadequate.
Factors that Contributed to the Implementation and Results
The World Bank's strategy and that of the IBD was to introduce privatization as a panacea for the
country's economic and political crisis. The proposal to award a concession for the water services in
Caracas was rejected by the political opposition at the time. Despite this, the World Bank initiated direct
talks with the State of Monagas for the preparation of this project, and disregarded the appropriate
channels at the national level. The scheme under which the management of AdM was awarded to an
extemal management contractor and the municipalities participated as an association (Mancomunidad)
meant that AdM depended on the State govenmment and was thus not in compliance with the Municipal
Framework Law (Ley Organica de Regimen Municipal). This law specifies that municipalities have the
exclusive authority to provide water supply and sanitation services.
The national sectoral reform component could not be implemented as originally designed because it was not
consistent with the new Constitution adopted in 1999. As a result, it was necessary to redesign the national
component and reformulate the project. Under the new Constitution all draft laws must be subject to public
debate and consultation prior to submission to the National Assembly. However, the passage of the new
Sector Law in late 2001 has been seen as a positive signal which incorporates best regional practices and it
was subject to a broad consultation process.
A World Bank mission of November 27 - December 5, [2000] recommended the extension of the loan, and
the actions that the government, HIDROVEN and AdM were required to take as a precondition. [These
included, among other actions, the provision of adequate counterpart funds, passage of the Sector Law and
- 14 -



contracting specialists to implement the National Component] During January [2001], a Bank staff
member informed the Governor [of Monagas State] that the deadline for submitting the necessary
documents was February 28 [2001]. In the meantime, terms of reference for work to be undertaken with
funding from the extended loan were sent to the World Bank for no objection by e-mail on February 2,
2001, but no response was received. The Bank was informed by e-mail, on February 23, 2001, regarding
progress on the regulatory framework, and on February 28, 2001, that the counterpart funds for the project
had been included in the national budget. No response to any of these communications was received from
the Bank. HEI)ROVEN subsequently learned from a third party that the loan had been cancelled--an
unusual situation given that the communication between HIDROVEN and the Bank had been very good
earlier in the project.
Lessons Learned
In preparing the project the Bank did not seem to take into account the lessons of the failure of the effort to
arrange a concession in Caracas, in particular, the lack of a favorable regulatory framework, the lack of
political consensus and the extremely low tariffs and cost-recovery. Why were actions not taken to rectify
these problems when the project was prepared?
The Bank's schemes only seem appropriate for "ideal" environments in which no political changes take
place. Such models for the provision of basic services that do not allow for all the variables, including
politics, are technical-academic exercises that prove to be very costly for the country, from both the
economic and social point of view.
The project is not likely to be sustainable. AdM did not achieve its targets and there was very little transfer
of skills. The current management of the company has had immense problems with the information systems
that were installed.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 15 -



Annex 1. ]Key Performance Fudicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome    Impact Indicators:
-     IndicatorM/iatrix                  Projected in last PSR.               Actual/latest Estirmate
al 1. Signing of management contract wih a  The contract was signed and implemented.  The contract was signed and implemented
private operator.
a 2. Efficiency in collectons of 80% by year  47% achieved in 2000.         48% achieved in 2000.
2000
a.3. 33% contbibution of AdM to investments No contnbution in 2000 20 % contribution  No conbribubon
on an annual basis from intemal cash  projected for 2001.
generabon by year 1999
a.4 100% metered coverage of large    100%                                  100%
consumers by end of 1998.
b.1. 42,000 people upgraded to basic service 35,000 people were upgraded to basic  35,000 people were upgraded to basic
levels in rural communites by year 2000  service levels by 12/2000.         service levels by 12/2000.
b.2 Reducton of number of days of rationing Water raboning/interruption to service was  Water ratoning/interrupton to service was
per year to five by year 2000         reduced from an average of 13 hours per day reduced from an average of 13 hours per day
to less than 3 hours per day.         to less than 3 hours per day.
b.3. Reduction of unaccounted-for water from 55 % in 2000                   55%
current 70% to 40% by the year 2000, which
would reflect improved management
practoes and serve as a proxy for quaity
through less leakage and Improved metering
of production and consumpbon.
c. 1. Four natonal standards for WS&S  Seven standards were issued by 2000.  Seven standards Issued.
issued by end of 1998.
c.2. By the year 2000, six regional, state or  Six systems were decentralized by 2000  Six systems decentralized by 2000.
municipal water systems transferred from
national water authontes to klcal authorites.
c.3. Establishment of confederabon of water The design was completed in 2000 and N  The design was completed In 2000 but the
users in the State of Monagas by end of  was projected that the users' organization  users' organization was not created.
1999.                                 would be created In 2001.
Output Indicators:
lndlcatoi/Matri|                   Projected In last PSR                 Actual/iLtest Estimate
End of project
-16-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
iAp4praisal,  Actual/Latest  "P0pcentage of
4','- . '            ,   *                       Estimate 4  >   ' , , 'Estiiimate  'kppraisal
'r.oject Cost .iCt               .      $ - niUIjp ,  US$ million    .
Direct Cost
Regional Component                                    40.40           30.60        75.7%
1. AdM Support Subcomponent (reimbursable)            36.50           29.90        81.9%
L.a. Institutional Support to AdM                      3.80            8.30       218.4%
Management Contract Services                          2.00            4.30        215.0%
Commercial System                                     0.10            1.50       1500.0%
Institutional Support                                 0.40            2.30        575.0%
Public Awareness Campaign and Monitoring              0.40            0.20         50.0%
Water and Sanitation Master Plan                      0.80                          0.0%
L.b. Rehabilitations Investments                      32.80           21.60        65.0%
Emergency Works                                       2.80             (1)          0.0%
Priority Rehabilitation Works                                          (1)          0.0%
17.20
Worksfor services Quality Improvement                12.80                          0.0%
2. Rural Rehabilitation Sup. comp. (Non-reimbursable)  3.90            0.70         17.9%
a. Institutional Support                              0.90            0.20        22.2%
2.b. Rehabilitation Investments                        3.00            0.50         16.7%
National Institutional Component                      14.00            6.20         44.3%
Technical Assistance Program                       4.60            2.50         54.3%
National Training Program                          3.20            2.00         62.5%
Pre-Investments                                    4.20            0.70         16.7%
Comp Management and Project Coord.                 0.00            0.40           .0o
Water systems rehabilitation
Subtotal Direct Cost                                  54.40           36.10         66.4%
Physical Contigenciest                                 4.50            0.00          0.0%
Physical Contingencies                                 3.00            0.00          0.0%
Price Contingencies                                   61.80           36.10         58.4%
Project Cost                                           8.00            4.10         51.3%
Interest During Construction                          69.80           40.20         57.6%
Total Project Cost (excluding taxes)                   1.30                          0.0%
Taxes
71.1           40.20         56.6%
Total Project Cost                                                            I
Project Costs by Procurem nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
rocurement: Method' - 
Expendltu  ditery m*       ICB     ;     NCBgy        Other,             t -  ^    Iost
1. Works                      0.00          26.60         5.10          0.00         31.70
(0.00)        (10.40)       (2.60)        (0.00)      (13.00)
2. Goods                      5.60           7.00         4.60          0.10         17.30
(3.90)        (4.40)        (2.90)       (0.00)       (11.20)
- 17-



3. Services                   0.00          0.00          14.60         5.40        20.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
4.                            0.00          0.00                                     0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         0             0          (0.00)
5.                            0.00          0.00          0.00                       0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                       5.60         33.60         24.30         5.50         69.00
(3.90)       (14.80)        (5.50)       (0.00)       (24.20)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual1Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
__  4         Procuiement Method'
Exrenditure Cateogry       ICB           NCB                          X .oeal Cost
1. Works                      0.00          6.30         12.00         0.00         18.30
(0.00)        (3.80)       (7.20)        (0.00)      (11.00)
2. Goods                      0.00          0.20          4.40         0.00         4.60
(0.00)        (0.10)       (3.30)        (0.00)      (3.40)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         11.10         2.00         13.10
(0.00)        (0.00)         0           (0.00)      (0.00)
4.                             0.00         0.00                       0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         0           (0.00)       (0.00)
5.                            0.00          0.00          0.00                      0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                       0.00          6.50         27.50         2.00        36.00
(0.00)        (3.90)       (10.50)      (0.00)       (14.40)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
e;.Cmpoflent .,..n App~rasal1EWate. +       |,   ActualJa,test Estimate  - eicint6geof Appraisal
_________._____i_             Gov_ __- _C   i  .nai                        - Bank  Govt.  CoF.
Regional               29.70     23.10              22.50     9.90             75.8   42.9
Nadonal Inst            9.30     3.50      5.50     3.00      1.20     2.00    32.3   34.3   36.4
Total                  39.00     26.60     5.50     25.50     11.10    2.00    65.4   41.7   36.4
- 18 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Adequate data were not available to conduct a conventional economic analysis. Instead economic results
have been estimated on the basis of the percentage of the targets that were achieved. Targets, such as the
level of unaccounted for water had been used as the basis for assessing the majority of the economic
benefits of the project in the SAR.
The estimated net present value of the urban components, support to AdM and rehabilitation of
infrastructure, was US$30.7 million. Its IRR was estimated at 27%, and the B/C ratio at 1.71. (The
economic analysis was presented in Annex L of the SAR.) This analysis was based on the assumption that
physical water losses, that were estimated at the time to be at 66%, would be reduced to 40%. However
during project inplementation the baseline water losses were audited at a level of 73%. As only 66 % of
the investments were executed, the reduction of physical losses did not reached the target. Losses were
reduced to 55%, which is equivalent to 69% of the original reduction of 26%. Thus, the ex-post economic
benefits can be estimated as 69% of the original benefits, and the costs as 66%. The NPV of US$ 22.6
million shows a reduction in the estimated economic impact of approximately 26% and a B/C ratio of 1.8.
Using this information the IRR was estimated to be 28.8%, which is slightly higher than the IRR at
appraisal, reflecting the fact that with 66% of the costs it was possible to achieve 69% of the benefits,
under this component. The net impact however is much lower, as many of the costs and associated benefits
were not realized.
Detailed results of the rural program, PROPAMAR are not available so the ex-post economic results
cannot be estimated. However, there is evidence that the results would be similar to those of the urban
component. While only 36% of the planned PROPAMAR investments were implemented (18% disbursed
by the Bank), 83% (35,000) of the targeted 42,000 people benefited from improved access to service. This
surprising outcome appears to be due to the overestimation of costs at appraisal-i.e., the existing
infrastructure was not as deteriorated as expected and significant results were achieved through
improvements in the management arrangements.
- 19 -



Annex 4. Bgank lInpunts
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty        Perfonnance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year   Count          Specialty                   Progress    Objective
lfdentiflcation/Preparation
12/1992                   1   PROCURMENT SPEC. (1)
01/1993                   4   SANITARY ENG. (2),
FINANCIAL ANALYST (1),
PROCURMENT SPEC. (1)
04/1993                   3   SANITARY ENG. (1),
FINANCIAL ANALYST (1),
PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)
06/1993                   2   PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1),
FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
10/1993                   3   SAN. ENG. (1), FIN. ANALYST
(1), PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)
11/1993                   3   SAN. ENG. (1), FIN. ANALYST
(1), PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)
05/1994                   2   SAN. ENG. (1), PSP SPEC.(l)
10/1994                   3   ECON. (1), FIN. ANALYST (1),
SOC. POLICY SPEC. (1),
HYDROLOGIST (1)
01/1995                   3   HYDROLOGIST (1), SOC.
POLICY SPEC. (1), MGMT
SPEC. (1)
03/1995                   4   HYDROLOGIST (1), SOC.
POLICY SPEC. (1), MGMT.
SPEC. (1),
RURAL/PERI-URBAN WS
SPEC. (I)
04-05/1995                4   FIN. ANALYST (1), ECON. (1),
HYDROLOGIST (1), MGMT.
SPEC. (1)
Appraisal/Negotiation
06/1995                  12    FIN. ANALYST (2),
HYDROLOGIST (1), SOC.
POLICY SPEC. (1),
ENVIRON. SPEC. (1),
ECON. (2), MGMT. SPEC.
(2), PSP SPEC. (1), WSS
ENG. (1), PROCUREMENT
SPEC. (1)
09/1995                   1    SOC. POLICY SPEC. (1)
03/1996                   1    SOC. POLICY SPEC. (1)
Supervision
03/26/1997                 2   FINANCIAL ANALYST               S           S
(I); ENV. SPECIALIST (1)
06/20/1997                 5   FINANCIAL AUDIT (1); PPAL.      S            S
OPERATIONS OFFIC (1);
- 20 -



ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1);
SOCIAL POLICY SPECIALIST
(1), URBAN SPEC. (1)
07/26/1997                2   FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);         S           S
ENVIRONMENT SPEC. (1)
11/26/1997                2  FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);          S           S
URBAN SPECIALIST (1)
03/25/1998                4   T-M/FIN. ANAL (I); T-M/        S           HS
ENGINEER (1); PROJECT
ASSISTANT (1); SOCIAL
POLICY SPECIAL. (1)
08/03/1998                2   PPAL. OPERATIONS OFFIC         S           S
(1); SR. ENVIRON. SPEC (1)
11/20/1998                7  TM/FINANCIAL ANALYST            S           S
(I); TM! ENGINEER (1);
URBAN SPEC. (1), RES.
MISSION SPECIALIST (1); PSP
SPEC. (1); SOC. POLICY SPEC.
(2)
4/1999                    7   T-M/WATER ENG. (1);            S           S
T-M/FIN.SPEC. (1); URBAN
SPEC. (1); SOC. POLICY SPEC.
(1); CONSULTANTS (3)
7/1999                    1   URBAN SPEC. (1)                S           S
10/23/1999                2  TM-FINANCIAL ANALYST            U           S
(1); WATER ENGINEER (1)
04/19/2000                4   TL/FINANCIAL SPEC. (1);        U           S
WS&S SPECIALIST (1);
URBAN SPECIALIST (1); FIN.
ANAL. (1)
12/05/2000                3  TASK MANAGER (1); WATER         U           U
SPECIALIST (1); URBAN
SPECIALIST (1)
ICR
10/2001                  2    FIN. ANALYST (1),              U           U
ECON/INSTITUTIONAL
REFORM SPECIALIST (I)
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks           US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation            33                    99,000
Appraisal/Negotiation                 26                    78,000
Supervision                           39                   117,000
ICR                                    6                    18,000
Total                                104                   312,000
Note: the number of staff weeks is estimated on the basis of site visits only.
-21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of ObIcte'ves/Ounutoit of Comimjnents
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
rOI Macro policies                      O H   OSUOM      0 N  G NA
Z Sector Policies                       O H   O SU (O M  O N  O NA
M Physical                              OH OSUOM ON ONA
I Financial                             OH    0SU    M   ON   ONA
O Institutional Development             O H   O SU ( M   O N  0 NA
O Environmental                         OH    OSUOM      ON   ( NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
OI Gender                         OH OSUOM ON NA
OI Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
O Private sector development            0 H   O SU D M   0 N  0 NA
OPublic sector management               O H   O SU ( M   O N  O NA
LI Other (Please specify)               OH    OSUOM      ON   O NA
-22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
F Lending                                           OHS OS      OU     OHU
I Supervision                                       OHS OS      OU     O HU
9 Overall                                           OHS OS      O U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
3 Preparation                                      OHS OS       0 U    O HU
F Government implementation performance            O HS O S      0 U   0 HU
3 Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       0 U   O HU
3 Overall                                           OHS OS          u  O HU
- 23-



Aminen 7. List of Supportimg lDocumnments
Staff Appraisal Report Venezuela Water and Sewerage Decentralization Project in the State of Monagas,
May 1996
Project Loan Agreement, October 1996
The Management Contract (Contrato de Gerencia T65-N 01), March 1997
Project Files: Mission TORs, BTO/Supervision reports, Aide Memoires, Project Status Reports
AdM Operator Reports, April 1997 March 2001
IESA: Independent Mid-term Review Report, March 1999.
Financial Audits, 1997 - 2000
Juan Badias, Reports from the International Coordinator, December 1997 - February 2001
Memorando de Derecho (Posibilidad de Otorgar en Concesi6n los servicios de Acueductos Municipales.)
Isabelle Fauconnier, The Impact of the Venezuela Monagas Water and Sewerage Decentralization Project
on Service Access and Affordability for the Urban Poor, July 2001.
-24-



MAP SECTION






_____________________________________________________________________                                                                                 IBRD  27252~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I RD   725
ST. VINCENT  6L-
b~~~~~~ fN.1h)                                                   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0d the
tn,ho INoFhI                        C a r i b b e a n  Sea                           D' GRENADINES
VENEZUELA                                                                                                    ,   oDGRENADA
WATER AND SEWERAGE                                                                                           [ :-Vn  -
DECENTRALIZATION              PROJECT       IN                        /Go'odoVcpoo     '               0                         (SooT pj                                                A0R0
hi                       (Von) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ Mongon              TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
THE    STATE    OF MONAGAS                                   r-,= |i- ^',I-I-~'1s                                   FEDERAL R ';; W iL t0} | |1 ll  i  fslsbNUEVAESPARTA   TRINIDADANDTOEAGO
REGIONAL HYDROLOGICAL                                                                   1 -' I   I' L  1CARAOBO ;
CORPORATIONS IHIDROSC                                                                                                              ConnS  o     R
ST STROAPTEO ERAL  TERTR CAPTAL                  / CoTbo _oTo                                           1 erli,         E '>                            <
DTTO. FEDERAL, MIRANDA . v n 2 . ^ t j ) ,S1 1 1 c b  i                                                                                                        Ocea
SELECTED CITIES                                                                                       d.                    3 '  l  '                        o ZE/LIA  .      G    Y   N
STATERORC FDENTAL TERTR CAPITAL                                                                       El     cco                                         imn       t 
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                     P..O. L O  M  o o Ao
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 7LA -5 0 t_;; \
RIVERS                           c~~~~~~~~~~                                                      ARC
STATE ROUNDARIES                                            0    .                                              ) 5I'                           \ -  -         r'0
oMRDA( 
INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES                                              BARI NA                                                                    (E l P .
RAIRINA TRA                           01 ,P                 - AMAONA        Elch            * B
HYDROLOGICAL CORPORATIONS IHIDROSI 
DTTOFEDERAU, MIRANDA SUCRR, EV nod
HIDROCENTRO                                                                                  0
ARAGU, CARAROBO, COJEDES                                                                                                                                                     GUYANA
_____  HIDROOCCIDENTAL                                                                                  A1-h.
LARA, YARACUY. PORTUGUEDA
D  HIDROFALCON
FALCONC                                                      L     M     IA
HIDROLAGO                                                     L     M  -B I A
ZULLA                                  S
UHIlDROSUROESTE
TACHIRA, MUNIC. ZAMOORA DEL EDO RARINAS
W  HIDROANDES                                                                                              .       L C.h.
MERIDA, TRUJILLO, BARINAS
W7    HIDROPAEZ                                                                                                        AAOA
GUARICOuhhudole                                                r0                                               B R A Z I L \ -/f'Fi 
HIDROCARIRE                                                                                                                                                                      6I
ANSOATEGUI, MONAGAS, SUCRE, NVA ESPARTA
u]HIDROLELANOS                                                                                                                                                                          -
AF1JR                          0   ~   ~~~~      ~~~~~~ ITT  200                                                                              CAIBNSE
ROLIVAR, AMOAZONAS, DELTA AMAACURO              KILOMETERS
-T oh.odoo, mo-i-no deononn                                          oEo--~Vo
B R A Z I L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                    RAI






S U C R E                                \\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\~~~~~n ~~~IBRD 27253
S U C R E 
.-0 >  y  ~  **s*w>wo   1-z---  ;      Gulf of
_..,   ./ <   <        ~    CaripitoC it                                 Paria         I I
> -- -  rSanN > b  Caripe         'o.)
Mundo 
I Nuevo                          d     Qui equir
;_ Tacata         Ar    Argua de                                             \       (\
Caicara de Maturin                      Guarapiche
AMANA
\, / MATURiIN                                                 Maturin { 
\ ~ Punta de*-< Jusepin
Mat/                       a'Amon a
El Teler    Sat
t'             / Babora J\$>bX                                                      DELTA
i   /'                                              A(!g        gA~~~~~~~~~MACURO
Aguasay
ANZOATEGUI             -.\                                        Temblcdor
VENEZUELA                       '                          v)
WATER AND SEWERAGE                                                            Barrac
DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT                          'Oro
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
MONAGAS WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM                                 -
TO   BE REHABILITATED                                              -
The bo.ndor,es, col-o   ders,,oinatons-. ,
and ony other  foroton shown on                                                                      - ---
th.s -rp do not-nply, -n the port of
The World Bonk Gro-p ony 1udgment      - J
on the legalstaus ofany terrdtory, or                                   0   10   20   30  40   50 KILOMETERS
ony endorsement or occeptance of . _            B  0  L i VA  R              I   I    I    I
such boundar-iesVA
Q3    TREATMENT PLANTS          RIVERS
co$  roo  ~   ~    ~     -(    CATCHMENT POINTS
.1                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~---- STATE BOUNDARIES
)     VENEZLm A'                               STORAGE TANKS
-\\  x  V E N E Z U E L A  jv o i>_  *    MAJOR TOWNS SUPPLIED       INTERNATIONAL
s..7 VsURINASE         EXISTING SYSTEM             BOUNDARIES (INSET)
COLOMBI A                     7
L.J  W ~ -    B R A Z I L
MAY 1996









Tp. ;;-. 9.:
Trype;      tCrl



