Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15072-VE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VENEZUELA
wATER AND SEWERAGE DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
May 16, 1996
Environment and Urban Development Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =       Venezuelan Bolivar (Bs.)
US$                    Bs 467 (as of May 16, 1996)'
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
UNITS AND MEASURES
I kilometer                   =        1.000 meters
I Gallon                      =       3.7854 liters
I Cubic meter                 =        1000 liters
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AdM                    -       Monagas Water and Sewerage Company
CHU                    =       Users' Hydrographic Confederation
CORPOVEN               =       A Subsidiary of PETROVEN
COWAP                  =       Community Water Action Plan
CVG                    -       Venezuelan Guayana Corporation
ELEORIENTE             =       Eastern Powcr Distribution Corporation
FIV                    -       Venezuelan Investmcnt Fund
GDP                    -       Gross Domestic Product
GIS                    =       Geographic Information System
GOV                    =       Government of Venezuela
HIDRO                  =       Regional Water Authority
HIDROCARIBE            =       Caribbean Hydrological Corporation
HIDROVEN               =       Venezuclan Hydrological Corporation
ICB                    =       International Competitive Bidding
IDB                    =       Inter American Development Bank
IMF                    =       International Monetary Fund
INOS                   =       National Institute of Sanitary Works
IC                     =       Introductory Courses
ISC                    =       Intensive Specialization Courses
LAGOVEN                =       A subsidiary of PETROVEN
LCB                    -       Local Competitive Bidding
MAC                    -       Ministerio de Agricultura y Cria (Ministry of Agriculture and
Breeding)
MARNR                  -       Ministerio del Ambiente y Recursos Naturales Renovables (Ministry of
the Environment and Natural Renewable Resources)
MF                     -       Ministerio de Fomento (Ministry of Development)
MIS                    -       Management Information System
MSAS                   -       Ministerio de Sanidad y Asistencia Social (Ministry of Health and
Social Assistance)
NGO                    -       Non-Governmental Organization
NTP                    -       National Training Program
OCEI                   -       Central Office of Statistics and Information
O & M                  -       Operation and Maintenance
PERL                   =       Public Enterprise Reformulation Loan
PETROVEN               =       Venezuelan Oil Corporation
PEU                    =       Project Executing Unit
PHRD                   -       Policy and Human Resources Development
A rate of Bs 170 to US$ 1.00 has been used for analysis and conversions in this report.



PROPAMAR               =      Programa Participativo de Mejora de Acueductos Rurales (Rural
Rehabilitation and Participatory Management Program)
SAR                   =       Staff Appraisal Report
SDP                   =       Sector Decentralization Program
SOE                   =       Statement of Expenditures
TAP                    =      Technical Assistance Program
UAC                           Users Awareness Campaign
UFW                    =      Unaccounted For Water
USAID                 =       United States of America Agency for International Development
WRM                    =      Water Resources Management
WS&S                  =       Water Supply and Sanitation
WTP                    =      Willingness To Pay






VENEZUELA
WATER AND SEWERAGE DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 The Republic of Venezuela
Implementing Agency:    Aguas  de  Monagas  (AdM)  and  C.A.  Hidrol6gica
Venezolana (HIDROVEN)
Beneficiaries:            AdM, H-IDROVEN, Municipalities of the state of Monagas,
and urban and rural water system users
Poverty:                  Not Applicable
Amount:                   US$ 39.0 million
Terms:                    Single Currency Loan, with repayment over 17 years,
including five years of grace at the standard variable interest
rate for LIBOR-based US dollar.
Commitment Fee:           0.75%, on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:          The Borrower will onlend US$ 26.1 million equivalent in
bolivares to AdM for the regional component for 17 years,
including five years of grace, with interest at the active rate
for the commercial banking system. The Government of
Venezuela will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Financing Plan:           See para 3.11 and 3.13
Net Present Value:        US$ 30.7 million at a discount rate of 12%
Economic Rate of Return: 15.2%
Maps:                     IBRD 27252
IBRD 27253






VENEZUELA
WATER AND SEWERAGE DECENTRALIZATION
PROJECT IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR IN VENEZUELA ... ....................I
A.   Country Overview                                                                  1.....
B. Macroeconomic Linkages .1
C. Sectoral Issues                                       .3
D. Rationale for Bank Involvement                                .8
E.  Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Operations .10
11. WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS  ................... 11
A.    Introduction   and   Overview   .......................................................  11
B.   Organization of the Sector in Monagas ........................................................ 1
III. THE PROJECT .............................................................. 17
A. Project Origin                   ..17
B. Project Objectives                  ..18
C. Project Description                  ..19
D. Project Cost and Financing                ..23
E.   Legal and Institutional Issues            ............................. 24
F. Project Implementation                 ..29
G. Procurement, Disbrusement and Auditing               ..31
H. Environmental Issues                  ..36
I. Social Impact    ..37
1. Project Sustainability. .37
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION .......................... 39
A. Project Benefits ..................                                                      39
B. Economic Justification .39
C. Financial Analysis of AdM .41
D. Willingness to Pay Studies .44
E. Project Risks .45
This report is based on the findings of the World Bank appraisal mission which visited Venezuela from June 11 to 23,
1995. The mission was composed of Messrs./Mmes. Manuel Mariflio (Task Manager, TWUWS), John Stein (co-Task
Manager, LA2EU), Isabelle Fauconnier (LA2EU), Luis Cosenza (Consultant), Carlos Moreno-Pineda (LAIEU) and
Luis Guasch (LATAD). Messrs. Luis Guasch, Guillermo Yepes (TWUWS) and John Boland (Johns Hopkins
University) were peer reviewers. Technical support was provided by Mmes./Messrs. Livio Pino (ACTCO), Lucila
Rodriguez, Annette Huber, Mauricio Mossi, Fernando Troyano, Marco Fierro, Juan Badias and Roberto Chama
(Consultants). Secretarial assistance was provided by Mmes. Alba Renero, Lily Franchini (LA2EU) and Beaulah
Noble (TWUWS). The Division Chiefs were Kreszentia M. Duer, Theodore Nkodo and Eugene McCarthy,
successively. The Department Directors were Edilberto Segura and Paul Isenman, successively.



V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .                                                                         ........................................... 47
TABLES
Table   1.1:  Distribution  of States among the HIDROS  ........................................................                               5
Table  3.1:  Project Cost and  Financing  ....................................                               ............................  23
Table   3.2:  Financing  Plan ................................................................                                               24
Table  3.3:  AdM   Monitoring  Indicators ................................................................                                   27
Table  3.4:  Procurement Arrangements ................................................................                                       33
Table 3.5: Allocation of Loan Amount and Percentage of Expenditure to be Financed ... 35
Table   3.6:  Estimated  Bank  Disbursement ................................................................                                 36
Table  4.1:  Financial targets for AdM  ................................................................                                     41
Table  4.2:  Risk  Matrix ................................................................  46
-              FIGURES
Figure 3.1:  Contracts and  Agreements ................................                                 ................................  25
ANNEXES
Annex A.   Policy  Letter  ..........................................................................................................
Annex  B.   Lessons Learned  from   past Bank  Experiences  ......................................................
Annex  C.   Legal and  Institutional Framework  of the  Water Sector  .......................................
Annex  D.   Willingness to  Pay  Studies  ....................................................................................
Annex  E.   Management Contract ............................................................................................
Annex  F.   Rehabilitation  Plan  for AdM    ..................................................................................
Annex  G.   Participatory  Rural Rehabilitation  Sub-Component ..............................................
Annex  H.  National Institutional Component  .........................................................................
Annex I.  Users 'Hydrographic Confederacion for Water Resources Management .............
Annex J.    Implementation  Plan  ..............................................................................................
Annex  K.   Financial Model for AdM   ......................................................................................
Annex L.   Economic Analysis  ................................................................................................
Annex M.  Selected  Documents in the Project File..................................................................
MAPS
1. Venezuela. Regional Hydrographic Corporations
2. Monagas Water Supply System to be Rehabilitated



I. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR IN VENEZUELA
A. Country Overview
1. 1.  Venezuela, situated on the north coast of South America and bordered by
Colombia, Brazil and Guyana, is the continent's sixth largest country with an area
estimated at 916,442 square kilometers. In addition to its mainland, Venezuela possesses
72 islands and a maritime area of 362,000 square kilometers (the country's declared
exclusive economic zone). The total population was estimated in mid-1994 at about 21
million inhabitants, some 83% of whom live in urban areas located mainly in the northern
states. Venezuela's per capita income was estimated to be about US$ 2,760 in 1994. Oil
and several minerals account for approximately 90% of total exports. Oil production,
mining, petrochemicals and energy have in recent years generated up to 30% of Gross
Domestic Product (GDP); other manufacturing activities have accounted for another
12%, while agriculture has accounted for approximately 5% of GDP.
B. Macroeconomic Linkages
1.2.  Crisis and Reform. In Venezuela, since the late 1960s, abundant oil earnings
have traditionally accounted for 70 to 80% of govemment revenues. This has encouraged
large public spending characterized by low efficiency and low cost-recovery levels in the
public utilities sectors. In 1989, following ten years of economic decline due to falling oil
prices, deficient fiscal policy and insufficient development of non-oil activities, the
government engaged in a comprehensive structural adjustment program, including sectoral
and public administration reforms. The program included the removal of price-controls
and non-tariff barriers to trade, the liberalization of interest and foreign exchange rates and
the implementation of a schedule to increase the price of gasoline, electricity and other
public services and goods, including water. Although the program resulted in a fairly
liberalized economic environment, with an attempt to decentralize public services and
utilities (although keeping high subsidies for petroleum products), it stalled in 1992.
1.3.   The new Government, which took office in February 1994, abandoned the
liberalizing reform approach of the previous administration. In June 1994, in an attempt to
respond to an un-sustainable economic situation, foreign exchange controls were put in
place, along with other price controls, and the bolivar was fixed at a rate of 170 to the
US$. These policy changes contributed further to destabilizing the economy. Faced with
eroding oil prices, a banking sector crisis, and a resulting foreign exchange crisis, the
economy deteriorated significantly in 1994 as the fiscal deficit grew to about 14% of GDP
(including the costs incurred from the banking crisis), inflation accelerated to about 70%
and GDP contracted by about 3%.



2
1.4.   Although the Government responded with some corrective economic measures,
such as increasing premium fuel prices by 140% and opening the oil prospecting market to
foreign companies to stabilize the economy, preliminary data for 1995 indicate that the
economic performance was poor (although slightly better than in 1994): the fiscal deficit
was about 9% of GDP (including the cost associated with the banking crisis), the inflation
rate was estimated at about 60%; and GDP grew by only 2%. To stabilize the economy,
the government initiated discussions in late 1995 with the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) to formulate a comprehensive reform program. It also devalued the bolivar to 290
per US$ in December 1995. However, Venezuela's economy continued to worsen during
the first quarter of 1996: non-oil activity remained stagnant and unemployment high
(about 11 percent); financial policies have been lax (the underlying fiscal deficit has been
about 4.5 percent of GDP); and pressures on the parallel exchange rate and prices
continued to intensify--by the end of the first quarter the parallel exchange rate
represented about twice the official exchange and monthly inflation was about 8 percent in
January-February and 6 percent in March.  To correct this un-sustainable economic
situation, the Government announced on April 15 the adoption of a major reform
program, developed in consultation with the IMNF.
1.5.  Policies. Reduction of inflation and re-establishment of confidence in the economy
are the two main objectives of the reform program. To achieve these objectives, key
policies of the program include: (i) elimination of almost all controls on foreign exchange
allocation; (ii) liberalization of the exchange and interest rates; (iii) increasing gasoline
prices---by five times on average; and (iv) increasing the wholesale tax rate from 12.5
percent to 16.5 percent.  In addition, key policies to restructure the financial sector
(including the development of a banking system reform program) and to protect the most
vulnerable groups (including an extended safety net program) are being considered. The
intention is to implement these programs as soon as possible within a feasible fiscal
program.
1.6.   Prospects. As a consequence of the program, the exchange rate increased initially
to about Bs 500 per US$ (from Bs 290 in the official market as indicated above) but has
decreased to about Bs 460-470 lately. Inflation remains high, but is expected to decrease
to about 1.5 percent monthly during the second half of 1996.  For the entire year,
however, inflation is projected to reach 80 to 90 percent, the fiscal deficit is expected to be
about 2 percent of GDP (consistent with limiting the domestic borrowing requirement
from the public sector) and the economy will likely contract (-1 . 1 percent GDP growth is
predicted). To support the exchange rate, interest rates have reached positive levels in
real terms, as expected. As a consequence of both the higher real rates and economic
contraction, the financial sector will likely deteriorate further. However, by developing
and implementing a coherent financial sector reform program, the Government expects to
achieve: (i) an orderly resolution of the banking crisis within a feasible fiscal program; and
(ii) in the medium term, the emergence of a strengthened financial system. At the same
time, the recently announced economic policies together with the implementation of a
sound fiscal and monetary policy are expected to lead to a more stable economy in the



3
medium term (inflation is expected to decrease from the 1996 peak) growing at an average
of 4-5 % over the 1997-2000 period.
1.7.  Impact on the Sector. As a result of the structural adjustment reforms and
macroeconomic situation, investment in the water sector has decreased' from 0.18% of
GDP in the 1990-1993 period to 0.05% in 1994. Similarly it decreased from an average
of about 5% of public sector investment prior to 1989 to 2.2% since. As expected, this
reduction has had a negative impact on service coverage and quality.
1.8.   Government Strategy. The need to reduce public spending has led the
Government to seek alternative means of providing services that had been traditionally
publicly funded and heavily centralized. Inefficient pricing policies, aborted attempts at
private sector involvement, and regulatory deficiencies have contributed to make public
utilities a growing drain on national government resources. The current administration has
given high importance to the water and sanitation sector because of the acute problems in
service delivery and the heavy fiscal burden of present centralized management. The
Government's policy for the sector, articulated in a letter to the Bank (Annex A), has as its
key elements: i) accelerating the decentralization process and building local institutional
capacity for management; ii) developing a modern institutional and regulatory framework;
iii) improving cost-recovery and achieving financial self-sufficiency; iv) increasing sector
investment to an average annual 4% of total public investment, concentrating on
rehabilitation, expanded sewerage and treatment coverage and greater access by the poor
to water supply and sanitation (WS&S) services; and v) improving efficiency and
involving the private sector in service delivery. The Govemment has requested World
Bank assistance in implementing the above reforms and supporting the first case of
decentralization to the state of Monagas. Project preparation work and initial actions for
institutional and regulatory reform at the national level and in the state of Monagas are
being supported through grants from the governments of Japan, Austria and Spain. The
Inter American Development Bank (IDB) is working closely with the Bank to support the
Government's sector reform efforts.
C. Sectoral Issues
1.9.   Overall Service Quality. With more than eighty percent of the urban population
receiving piped water supply, Venezuela has one of the highest coverage rates in Latin
America. It is also estimated that close to eighty percent of the rural population has
access to drinking water supply. This shows that the significant urban/rural disparities that
underlie water supply in many Latin American countries have been largely eliminated in
Venezuela. Coverage of sanitation is also high by Latin American standards, but is not as
extensive or even as that of water supply. More than sixty percent of the urban population
has connections to a sewerage system, in contrast with only forty percent of the rural
population.
See Programa de Ajuste del Sector de Agua Potable y Saneamiento, prepared by HIDROVEN in
September of 1994.



4
1. 10. Despite relatively good overall coverage rates, the quality of WS&S services in
Venezuela is poor, and the sector has largely failed to provide reliable and efficient
service: water supply is characterized by widespread recurring rationing during the dry
season months (however, the sector delivers 2,800 million cubic meters of water annually,
which should be sufficient to cover the national demand), low pressures, questionable
water quality, high unaccounted-for-water and inadequate customer service. Wastewaters
are generally not treated and most sewage is discharged raw into the receiving waters.
1.11. The centralized management of water and sanitation services and the treatment of
these services as a public good have resulted in very low cost recovery rates. As the
national and state governments have had to reduce their budgets in order to bring the
macroeconomic crisis under control, funding for the sector has been dramatically curtailed.
The reduction of funds has impacted on system maintenance and investment, and this in
turn has resulted in water rationing and deteriorating water quality.  Although no
significant increases in gastro-intestinal diseases have been recorded yet at the national
level, the deficient water and sewerage service is regarded as a public health problem in
states such as Monagas, where all health districts have reported increases in the incidence
of water-borne diseases.
1.12.  Sector Entities, Institutions and Regulation. The structural adjustment reforms
initiated in 1989 included the restructuring of water supply services by abolishing the
Instituto Nacional de Obras Sanitarias (INOS), decentralizing the sector to regional
agencies and establishing adequate cost-recovery policies for the sector. A new national
institution, responsible for the implementation of policy and the coordination of the sector,
C.A. Hidrol6gica Venezolana (HIDROVEN), was created in 1991. While INOS went
into liquidation, 10 regional water companies (HIiDROS) began to operate. INOS was
formally abolished in 1993, and its liquidation process is currently in its last stages.
Despite the HIDROS regional character, WS&S services remain de facto highly
centralized with a complex organizational structure. The main sector entities are:
* the Ministry of the Environment and Renewable Resources (MARNR),
responsible for resources management, bulk-production of potable water,
setting policy and regulating tariffs;
a the Ministry of Development (Ministerio de Fomento), responsible for
regulating tariffs (jointly with MARNR);
*  the Ministry of Health and Social Assistance (MSAS), responsible for setting
drinking water quality standards;
*  the Municipalities, which  hold  constitutional responsibility  for water
distribution and sewerage services, although only few actually perform this
function;
*  HIDROVEN, the national water corporation (100% of the shares are owned



5
by MARNR), responsible for translating sector policy into operational plans,
establishing criteria and directives for the operation, maintenance, expansion
and reconstruction of the systems and subsequently supervising compliance,
and coordinating activities in the sector;
*  the  regional water companies, HIDROS, fully-owned  subsidiaries of
HIDROVEN, which are responsible for the provision of service in one or more
states. The distribution of states among the ten HIDROS is detailed in the
table 1.1. (see also Map 1);
Table 1.1. Distribution of States among the HIDROS
HIDROS                 States under their Jurisdiction
HIDROCARIBE            Anzoategui, Monagas, Sucre and Nueva Esparta
HIDROFALCON            Falcon
HIDROCAPITAL           Distrito Federal (Caracas) and Miranda
HIDROANDES             Merida, Trujillo and part of Bannas
HIDROCENTRO            Aragua, Carabobo and Cojedes
HIDROCCIDENTAL         Lara, Yaracuy and Portuguesa
HIDROLAGO              Zulia
HIDROSUROESTE          Tachira, Municipality of Zamora and part of Barinas
HIDROPAEZ              Guarico
HIDROLLANOS            Apure
*  the Corporaci6n Venezolana de Guyana (CVG), a state-owned oil, gas and
mining company, which is responsible for providing WS&S services in the
states of Bolivar, Amazonas and Amacuro; and
*  the state governments, which typically manage the rural systems in the
corresponding state.
1.13. Although sector policy formulation is the responsibility of the MARNR, this
function is normally exercised through HIDROVEN.  In practice, the sector has
functioned without clear policies and strategies. With the notable exception of potable
water quality, there have been no quality standards or performnance indicators for the
different government-owned companies that operate under the umbrella of HIDROVEN.
Moreover, there is neither an independent regulatory agency, nor a transparent and formal
regulatory framework.
1.14. Pricing Policy and Cost Recovery. On March 1, 1993, the Government issued a
Ministerial Resolution, introducing significant increases in water prices and a new tariff
structure. The Government's objective was to increase the revenues of water companies



6
to achieve financial self-sufficiency (an increment of 300 to 800 % was expected), and, on
this respect, this new Resolution represented a serious effort to adjust prices to costs.
1.15. Some of the new Resolution's salient features are that it:
* imposes increasing block tariffs;
* defines 7 users categories (" residential", "residential social", "commercial",
"industrial A", " industrial B", " bulk" and " trunk delivered" ), minimum
consumption to be billed for un-metered users and six reference tariff levels2;
*  sets the water consumption (15 m3/month) to be billed to the residencial social
consumers and limits charges to them to less than 3% of the minimum salary;
.  establishes an automatic correction system  to adjust tariffs based on price
variations and on the contribution to the total cost of the system from labor,
chemicals, energy and maintenance; and
o  introduces charges for sewerage and wastewater treatment as a proportion of
the water tariff, although at an unrealistically low level (10% of water tariffs for
each sewerage and wastewater treatment).
1. 16. While this national pricing policy states that tariffs must cover operation,
maintenance, depreciation and investment, and while it incorporates an automatic
adjustment clause, it has not been applied by the local agencies of the regional water
companies. This is mainly due to the lack of incentives for the local agencies to apply a
tariff at the upper end of the set, or to bill or collect, since: (i) all collections are managed
centrally by each regional water company; (ii) deficits are substantially covered through
transfers from the national government; and (iii) local agencies operate on the basis of
monthly budgetary allocations. In addition, these agencies are subject to local political
interference and are reluctant to charge higher tariffs when the service is deteriorated.
This leads to a vicious circle by which they cannot recover the costs of improving the
system, which deteriorates further.
1. 17. As a result, overall cost-recovery remains seriously deficient, and all the regional
companies incurred operational deficits in 1994 (currently, tariffs cover only about 40% of
operational costs). The sector has financed itself largely through non-payment of its
suppliers and contractors, namely the power subsector with which it accumulated a debt of
Bs 21,800 million in the 1991-1993 period. HIDROVEN has estimated that if the sector
were to cover its operational costs, including minor maintenance, but excluding
depreciation, 1994 tariffs would have to increase two to threefold in real value. Clearly,
2  For each system, the corresponding regional water company chooses which reference tariff level to
apply, depending on their perception of customer reaction and estimated operation and maintenance
(O&M) costs (no rules on how to do this selection are provided though).



7
tariffs would have to rise even more if they are to cover depreciation, debt service and a
reasonable percentage of the investment program.
1. 18. Rural Water Systems. Over the past 30 years, the management of rural water
services has undergone significant institutional and organizational transformations, with
varying degrees of decentralized and community-based management practices. In the
early 1 960s, the Ministry of Health and Social Assistance (MSAS) took responsibility for
water supply in communities with fewer than 5,000 residents. Over ten years, MSAS built
approximately 4,000 new rural water systems and established a management system
involving elected water committees in each town, payment for water services, and paid
community labor for constructing new systems. These committees drew on internal
community peer pressure and community trust to collect fees and organize group efforts
for routine repairs and maintenance. More technically complex O&M was carried out by
the zone supervising engineer and his/her staff, with support from the central MSAS's
O&M office in Maracay. Towards the end of the 1960s, federal transfers to cities and
towns became more common because of oil revenues, and MSAS stopped charging for
services. This brought about the decline of the water committee structure, new system
construction slowed and cost recovery measures at the local level ceased.
1.19. In the mid 1970s MSAS systems serving between 1,000 and 5,000 residents were
transferred to INOS which contracted out the O&M at the state level. In 1980, INOS
began charging symbolic tariffs in some states, but collections were usually interrupted
during periods preceding elections, which reflected the political vulnerability of the system.
INOS did not charge for rural WS&S services in the state of Monagas.
1.20. During the 1980s, systems managed by INOS and MSAS began to deteriorate.
Federal transfers to MSAS decreased and INOS' overriding focus on new construction to
the detriment of operation and maintenance led to the deterioration of the existing
infrastructure and contracting arrangements. In 1991, MSAS transferred all its systems to
State Public Works departments, and INOS to the regional HIDROS. In many cases, the
deficient level of rural water services provided by those two entities in each state has been
compensated by activist municipal governments, especially since mayors began being
elected, instead of appointed, in 1989. Still, rural WS&S service levels remain very
uneven across the country, and billing for those services is virtually non-existent.
1.21. Water Resources Management. Although Venezuela lies entirely in the tropics,
there is considerable variation in climate due principally to differences in elevation and
topography. Average annual rainfall ranges from less than 500 mm in the north Caribbean
coast to more than 4,000 mm in parts of the Orinoco delta and the eastern part of the
Cordillera de Merida. Humidity is generally high with average values exceeding 80% in
the Amazon, eastern planes (Ilanos) and the Maracaibo lowlands. Annual average
temperatures range from 24 °C at elevations below 800 m to about 0 °C at elevations over
3,000 m. The Orinoco river system drains some 80% of the national territory.



8
1.22. The management of water resources in Venezuela is centralized in the MARNR,
which formulates policies, sets water quality standards and controls most water-related
infrastructure (particularly water supply and sanitation investments) as well as their
operation and maintenance. Several other national, state and local agencies are also
involved in water resources management, but these operate without coordination, a
comprehensive management approach or a clear policy or strategy for integration between
them. As a result, although water policy formulation is technically the responsibility of the
MARNR, the Ministry of Agriculture and Breeding (Ministerio de Agricultura y Cria,
MAC) separately plans, constructs and manages irrigation. Similarly, although water
quality standards are established at the national level by the MARNR according to the type
of water body, MSAS sets water standards whenever issues related to the protection of
public health are involved. With respect to water supply and sanitation, some of the
MARNR's centralized control responsibilities have been delegated to HIDROVEN when
sector restructuring and decentralization began in 1990.
1.23. As part of the sector restructuring initiative, the government of Venezuela created
two river basin commissions in 1993 to decentralize and coordinate water resources
management in the Tuy River and Lake Valencia. However, these have failed to meet the
objectives set for them: they have not achieved sustainability and they have remained fully
financially dependent on the MARNR. The commissions were created following a new
institutional construct to address problems of water and the environment with a more
decentralized approach, where public participation was presented as a key component of
the institutional framework (public meetings were indeed held in the basins to involve
stakeholders in some planning decisions).  However, the decision-making has been
maintained at the national level in the MARNR. Moreover, the basin's stakeholders have
not been properly involved in their management and have remain un-bound to financial
requirements or decisions.
1.24. Project Focus on Sectoral Issues at the National Level. To address the issues
described above, the proposed project contains a national institutional component (para
3.10) which will support the Government's efforts to develop a new institutional and
regulatory framework for the sector, create and/or strengthen sector national institutions
and finance studies, equipment and consultant services to develop and implement new
policies on shared water resources management and related infrastructure, rural water
systems management, and private sector participation in water services delivery.
D. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.25. Past Bank involvement in Venezuela. Between 1961 and 1992, the Bank
approved 23 loans to Venezuela, totaling US$ 2,425.2 million. The FY 1992 lending
program amounted to US$ 329 million. The Bank reduced lending to a " core" program
of no more than US$ 200 million/year for FY94-95, owing to a deterioration in the
macroeconomic framework, with the proviso that lending could only be increased should a
number of macroeconomic conditions be met. The core program will target human



9
resources, institutional stref-thening, and infrastructure rehabilitation with emphasis on
poverty alleviation and privatization. The project focuses on these target interventions.
1.26. Bank Strategy. According to the last Country Assistance Strategy presented to
the Executive Directors on November 4, 19933, the Bank has five strategic objectives in
Venezuela: (a) advance the structural reform process and improve macroeconomic
management; (b) strengthen human resource development and poverty alleviation
programs; (c) strengthen government institutions at the central and local levels, including
project preparation and implementation capacity; (d) reform and rehabilitate key
infrastructure sectors; and (e) promote privatization and private sector development.
Efforts in the infrastructure sectors consistent with these objectives seek to: (a) strengthen
the ministerial, state and local units charged with designing and implementing strategies
and programs; (b) deregulate and reform pricing and cost-recovery mechanisms (including
independent regulatory bodies) for publicly supplied goods and services; (c) implement
maintenance and rehabilitation programs; and (d) make progress on decentralization,
restructuring, and privatization.  The project is fully consistent with the Country
Assistance Strategy and will contribute to the achievement of these strategic objectives
and efforts.
1.27. The Bank's last strategy for the WS&S sector, elaborated in the report Venezuela:
Strategy Paper for the Infrastructure Sectors (Report No. 11605-VE, 1993), remains
valid. The strategy focuses on supporting the Government's efforts to change the role of
the public sector and to create a regulatory framework that ensures effective competition.
A major goal for the operating agencies will be improved technical, administrative,
commercial, and financial efficiency with increased participation, where feasible, of the
private sector. The Bank's assistance to the water sector in Venezuela is envisaged
through three lending operations: (a) the proposed project, designed to help initiate the
sector decentralization in Monagas, serve as a demonstration model for other state water
companies, and assist HIDROVEN in further defining its role as the institution that will
lead policy changes at the national level and support the preparation of similar projects in
other states; (b) a project to support the rehabilitation and institutional modernization of
WS&S services for Caracas; and (c) a sector-wide operation to replicate in other states
the model developed in Monagas and address growing water pollution problems,
particularly in urban areas. These operations would be supported by previous and ongoing
sector analysis, and by experience gained under this project.
3  A new Country Assistance Strategy is under preparation, which will reflect recent agreements
between the Government and the IMEF on macroeconomic policy, as well as the continued high
priority of decentralization, improved management of public services through private sector
participation and strengthened cost-recovery, and better access to these services by the poor under
participatory management schemes.



10
Reformulation Loan (PERL) (Ln 3223-VE) supported the Government's plans to initiate
sector decentralization by abolishing INOS and creating the regional water companies.
The project had mixed results, partly due to the volatile political environment which
predominated in 1992-93, and partly because the strategy of enterprise reform rather than
sector reform left some important issues unresolved: in the case of the water sector, the
project did not put in place a strengthened regulatory framework or improved prices. This
had direct consequences for the privatization of the Caracas water system, which the
PERL had set out to support. A combination of factors, including an unfavorable
regulatory framework, a lack of local political commitment and consensus on objectives,
and excessively low existing tariffs, caused the concessioning process to abort. Although
the bid was unsuccessful, the basic preparatory work is still relevant for any future reform
and private sector involvement in the Caracas WS&S system and in the sector as a whole.
1.29. This experience, and a review of sector experience in the LAC Region and Bank-
wide (Annex B), suggest that there are essential requirements for efficient and effective
WS&S services. They include:
*  an adequate regulatory framework and, linked to it, appropriate tariff levels
and billing and collection mechanisms to generate the funds needed for
financial autonomy and to signal the real cost of water to the consumers. The
projects intends to develop these instruments through the national institutional
component (para 3.10);
*  efficient and cost-conscious management to avoid unnecessary expenditures,
particularly in excess personnel. Decentralizing the services now provided by
HIDROCARIBE and contracting the management of the services to an
experienced private operator should achieve this requirement,
* reversing the preference of decision-makers for new capital expenditure over
proper operation and maintenance. The project's physical works concentrate
on rehabilitation, the minimization of physical and commercial water losses and
the correction of deferred maintenance as a means of postponing new
investment and improving efficiency; and
*  user involvement in the setting of priorities and, where possible, the design of
subprojects, to improve ownership and cost-sharing of operation and
maintenance functions.  The project preparation has included thorough
stakeholder consultation, and taken into account demand-based, participatory
models already tested in Colombia, Ecuador, Bolivia and Indonesia.



11
II. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
A. Introduction and Overview
2.1.  The state of Monagas, located in the north-east of Venezuela, covers an area of
28,900 KM2, which represents 3.17% of the national territory.  In 1994, it had a
population of approximately 540,000, about 2.6% of the country's population. It is
divided into thirteen municipalities: Acosta, Bolivar, Caripe, Cedeflo, Ezequiel Zamora,
Libertador, Maturin, Piar, Punceres, Sotillo, Aguasay, Santa Barbara, and Uracoa. The
largest municipality, Maturin, is the state's capital, has approximately 65% of the state's
population and has been growing at a high rate of over 6.7% per annum in the last ten
years due to the activity of the petroleum industry. Other municipalities (Ezequiel
Zamora, Libertador and Sotillo) are also estimated to grow at between 2 and 5 percent per
year while the rural population has been decreasing at about 1-3 percent yearly. Roughly
15% (about 80,000 people) of the Monagas population live in rural areas. The state's
economy is based on: (i) the petroleum industry, which produces 800,000 barrels of oil
and 1,200 million cubic feet of gas daily; (ii) agriculture, with the production of corn,
sorghum, soya, caraotas (black beans), pineapple, mango, bananas, oil palm, yuca,
coffee, cocoa, and sugar cane; and (iii) cattle rearing.
2.2.  There is some degree of community organization in the state of Monagas, and this
provides a favorable vehicle for community and user participation in project design,
operation and supervision. Each municipality is organized into parishes, and these in turn
generally have several neighborhood associations. The Parish Council members are
elected by popular vote in a process similar to the election of the municipal governments.
The neighborhood associations are formed spontaneously and their members are chosen
in accordance with the by-laws of the association. There are 34 parishes in Monagas, in
addition to the 13 municipalities. The Parish Council supports the Municipal Council in
the administration of the municipality. The neighborhood associations do not have
regulated functions; they seek to promote the interests of each neighborhood.
B. Organization of the Sector in Monagas
2.3.   Introduction.  Until 1995, HIDROCARIBE provided water and sanitation
services in most urban areas of the state and in 22 communities designated as rural. The
state government is responsible for service in an additional 190 rural communities.
HIDROCARIBE also served 3 other states (Nueva Esparta, Anzoategui, and Sucre)
through separate management and accounting-centers for each state. The one operating
in Monagas was known as HIDROCARIBE-Monagas, and although it had well-defined
functions and responsibilities, it had no financial or administrative autonomy.  In



12
particular, it did not manage the funds that it collected, as these were transferred to
HIDROCARIBE's head office located in Puerto La Cruz in the state of Anzoategui.
2.4.  Service Quality and Coverage. It is estimated by HIDROVEN that in 1994,
93% of the urban population of Monagas had access to piped water supply, while 59%
had access to sewerage services. Coverage varied from a high of 95% in Maturin to a low
of 60% in Caripe, for water, and a high of 80% in Temblador and Barrancas to a low of
40% in Caripe, for sewerage. Water quality is deficient, and the incidence of water-
related diseases treated in local hospitals is quite large. In addition, sewage is mainly
discharged untreated into the rivers, although there are some small, poorly maintained
oxidation lagoons and some small, privately-owned treatment plants. Managerial and
system inefficiencies have combined to produce very high unaccounted-for water levels,
estimated by HIDROVEN at roughly 70% of the water produced. Moreover, significant
rationing is normal during the dry months. The response to this situation has traditionally
consisted in drilling wells to increase water supply. Four wells, drilled by a petroleum
company and subsequently abandoned, have recently been reconditioned to add some 150
lps (liters per second). Similarly, seven additional wells are being drilled with the
assistance of CORPOVEN - one of the three government-owned oil companies - and are
expected to add some 210 lps before the dry season of 1996.
2.5.  Operating  Practices  and  Commercial and  Financial Performance.
HIDROCARIBE, as most regional water companies have done since their creation, relied
on private sector companies (operadoras) to provide the service and operate and maintain
the system, while undertaking directly all commercial and administrative functions.
Because the contracts used to hire the operadoras were of short duration and were not
performance-based, they became "force-account" contracts, whereby a private party
provides personnel and equipment at a given rate, with no responsibility for cost or
performance. To further complicate matters, the financial situation of the sector did not
allow HIDROCARIBE to pay the operadoras on time. As a result, the operadoras were
not complying fully with their contractual responsibilities.
2.6.  The contracts with the operadoras allowed HIDROCARIBE to reduce its number
of employees and as a result, in 1994 HIDROCARIBE and HIDROCARIBE-Monagas
employed only 597 and 75 persons, between administrators and technical staff,
respectively. However, if the personnel provided by the operadoras is added, the number
of employees increased to 2,019 and 250, respectively, which led to 9 and 6 employees
per 1,000 customers, a figure higher than what is common in well-run utilities'.
2.7.  HIDROCARIBE-Monagas had an unsatisfactory financial performance since it
began operating in 1991. The main reasons for this bad performance were: (i) inadequate
tariffs and lack of financial resources that resulted in excessive dependence on transfers
from HIDROCARIBE; (ii) very high unaccounted-for water levels, inadequate billing and
The number of employees per 1,000 connections is 3.6 in Bogota, 2.1 in Santiago 2.9 in average in the
United States and as low as 0.8 in Alicante (Spain).



13
collections practices and inappropriate commercial policies; (iii) inconsistent accounting
practices; (iv) lack of clearly defined sectoral and operational objectives and
responsibilities; (v) deficient planning and control; (vi) lack of corporate independence,
managerial autonomy and accountability; (vii) insufficient qualified management and
technical staff, inadequate salary levels and excessive staffing in low level echelons; (viii)
insufficient maintenance of the infrastructure in operation, that has resulted in rationing,
averaging 4.5 days per week during the dry season, and (ix) inefficient procurement of the
operadoras' services.
2.8.  In 1994, HIDROCARIBE-Monagas served an estimated 60,900 connections, of
which 41,658 figured in its roster as clients (additionally, the state government supplied
about 12,000 connections in the urban areas, mainly in Maturin). These were billed a
total of Bs 330 million and of those, Bs 230 million were effectively collected. The
company's operation and maintenance expenditure was Bs 630 million, of which Bs 245
million were not paid, mostly for electricity supply and services provided by the
operadoras, that were added to a growing figure of payable accounts. Since there was in
effect no policy for disconnecting clients for non-payment of the service, and no
incentives to introduce adequate cost management procedures, the financial situation
would have continued to be grossly inadequate in the absence of corrective measures.
2.9.  The available financial information reveals that the rate of return was -25% for
1993 and -14% for 1994. The key standard indicators (operational, cash-flow and
balance sheet) also show HIDROCARIBE-Monagas' meager performance. In this period
gross revenues were insufficient to fund cash expenses, demanding a Government
subsidy of Bs 250 million in 1993 and Bs 490 million in 1994 to finance the operating
deficit. Central Government subsidies for new investments were also needed during the
period, and they reached Bs 870 and 892 million in 1993 and 1994.
2.10. Local Reforms in the Sector. In the context of the proposed project, authorities at
the state and municipal level in Monagas, supported by HIDROVEN, initiated steps to
improve the service and further decentralize it. The Ley Orgdnica de Regimen Municipal
includes water and sanitation services as part of the municipalities' duties and
responsibilities. To this end, the Mayors of the ten municipalities in the state created on
September 21, 1992 the Mancomunidad Monaguense de Acueductos (Mancomunidad), in
essence an association of municipalities, to deal with WS&S services management and
operation in the state. On October 26, 1993, the state government and the Mancomunidad
created Aguas de Monagas (AdM), to act as the responsible operating company for the
services in substitution of HIDROCARIBE in the state of Monagas. The capital structure of
AdM is public and comprises a 51% equity share from the Mancomunidad, with the
remainder held by the state government. Under this structure, O&M as well as management
fimctions will be contracted to the private sector, while AdM staffing is limited to the core
management which is needed for support to the Board of Directors and for project
implementation. Two members of AdM's five person Board of Directors are appointed
by the Governor and represent the state and the other three represent the municipalities.
At the request of the Governor and the Mancomunidad, CORPOVEN is assisting AdM by



14
2.11. The project will assist AdM, through a regional component (para 3.9 a and b), in
facing several key challenges: (i) urgently rehabilitating physical infrastructure that has
been seriously deteriorated due to neglected maintenance, in order to provide reliable
service and improve water quality; and (ii) strengthening its institutional and comnercial
capacity, introducing metering and involving the private sector in service management
through a management contract that will be structured with the appropriate incentives for
improved service delivery and cost-recovery. For the latter objective, AdM, with the help
of the private operator, should tap its potential revenue stream and increase revenue from
the very modest US$ 1.1 million in 1994 (about US$ 15 per connection per year), through
better billing and collection procedures, reduction of the present high unaccounted-for-
water level and adequate tariff adjustments.
2.12. Metering, Billing and Collection. AdM's main problems at this point appear to
be the high unaccounted-for-water levels, billing deficiencies and accounts receivable
inherited from HLDROCARIBE. In 1994, it was estimated that unaccounted-for water
reached 70% and was due primarily to: (i) the accumulated effects of inadequate
maintenance practices; (ii) unmetered customers and damaged meters (of a total of about
41,000 clients, only 1,200 (1.5%) have meters working properly), and (iii) the large
number of users, estimated to be about 30,000, who do not appear in the client roster and
therefore are never billed. Information provided by HIDROCARIBE-Monagas indicates
that in 1993 and 1994 collections were 34% and 56% of the amounts billed, respectively.
Although this shows some improvement, much remains to be done in this area. This
positive trend is continuing, as AdM has been able to double the amount collected since it
took over commercial operations from HIDROCARIBE in July 1995, in the context of
project preparation.
2.13. Tariff Levels. In 1994, HlDROCARIBE-Monagas' residential reference tariff
was Bs 17.5 per cubic meter of water for residential consumers (Bs 7.5/m3 for residencial
social), an extremely low figure by any standard. Since there are only a few metered
connections, consumption levels are estimated and the average revenue is therefore
unreliable and must be even lower. In practice, HIDROCARIBE-Monagas chooses which
tariffs to apply from the six tariff levels included in the current Ministerial Resolution on
tariffs, normally after they have been negotiated with the Mayors. Tariff policy is erratic at
best, and non-existent at worst. It is expected that AdM will require financial support
from the municipal and state governments through 1998, until unaccounted-for water
levels, billing and accounts receivable and tariffs are brought in line with sound utility
practice. During project preparation, tariffs have already been raised from 17.5 Bs/m3 to
40 Bs/m3 to reflect the cost of providing the service, and they will be further increased to
60 Bs/m3 before project effectiveness (para 5.1 a and 5.3 b). Additional adjustments due
to the recent devaluation and continuing high inflation are incorporated in the company's
financial plan, developed during project preparation. For this analysis, a cost-structure
similar to that of HIDROCARIBE has been assumed, with increments in the cost of labor,
energy, chemicals and operation and maintenance contracts determined by the year's
internal inflation. These increments have been used for the calculation of the reference



15
incorporated in the company's financial plan, developed during project preparation. For
this analysis, a cost-structure similar to that of HIDROCARIBE has been assumed, with
increments in the cost of labor, energy, chemicals and operation and maintenance
contracts determined by the year's internal inflation. These increments have been used
for the calculation of the reference residential tariff adjustments, in application of the
current ministerial resolution that regulates this matter. It is expected, however, that
improved management practices provided through the private operator would result in
more efficient Operation and Maintenance contracts.
2.14. Rural Systems. Rural WS&S systems in the state of Monagas are managed
either by the state government (generally the smaller systems, usually run by individually
contracted operators who are poorly trained), or HIDROCARIBE (larger systems, serving
about 800 households on average each), which contracts out the operation of the rural
systems to five operating companies, each covering a separate region of the state. Rural
water supply coverage is high, but the reliability of service is deficient (generally
intermittent and with prolonged periods of interruption). Moreover, most systems do not
treat water for potability and water quality varies widely among rural communities,
leading to adverse health impacts. These conditions stem from several critical problems:
i) inadequate supervision of operators, due to the isolation of rural systems from the
central management unit in Maturin; ii) little or no water treatment or water quality
monitoring; iii) poorly designed wells and/or water systems; iv) insufficient water
supplies;  vii) insufficient funding and lack of timely payment for repairs and
maintenance; and viii) lack of involvement of rural communities with the system's O&M
and planning. However, discussions held with rural communities representatives during
project preparation have indicated that communities would be interested in a scheme
involving them more in the management of their WS&S services.
2.15. The project will assist AdM and the municipalities to address the current problems
affecting the rural WS&S systems and channel the interest of the communities to get
involved in the management of their WS&S services. To this end, the project's regional
component includes a sub-component (para 3.9 c) to develop a pilot Rural Rehabilitation
and Participatory Management Program (Programa Participativo de Mejoramiento de
Acueductos Rurales - PROPAMAR), to:  (i) provide financial support for the
improvement of these systems; (ii) create management capacity at the community level;
and (iii) pilot decentralized and participatory management of rural water systems in the
state of Monagas and test policies and procedures that could be replicated in the rest of
the country.
2.16. Water Resources Management. In Monagas, several important problems of
water quantity and quality are being compounded by the combination of a growing
pressure on water resources and the divided responsibilities among managing institutions,
limited regulatory structure, lack of adequate institutional capacity and weak financial
incentives to implement water resources planning and management. Although the
creation of AdM is a step towards providing a more reliable and efficient municipal water
service, it does not addresses the allocation and protection of water resources in the state,



16
that is highly centralized in the MARNR. To tackle this problem and develop policies
and experience that could be replicated in other parts of the country, the project's national
institutional component will support the development and introduction of integrated water
resource management in the state of Monagas and the creation of a decentralized
watershed management unit for the Amana and Guarapiche rivers, with significant
involvement of the basin's stakeholders (para 3.10 a).
2.17. Legal and Regulatory Issues. During project preparation, the Government, with
the assistance of the Bank, developed a series of contract and agreements to address the
shortcomings of the current regulatory, legal and institutional framework of the sector and
solve legal issues that could represent constraints for project implementation and for the
proper operation of AdM, mainly those related to the decentralization of the service to the
municipalities. These contracts and agreements (para 3.14) will complement the current
regulatory and institutional framework in an interim basis, until a new, more developed,
framework is in place. The legal issues included: (i) AdM's legal status; (ii) the
assignment of the responsibility for the provision of WS&S services and the production
of water - the latter a national government responsibility;  (iii) the authority and
procedures for setting and adjusting tariffs; and (iv) the mechanisms to channel funds for
project implementation.
2.18. These contracts and agreements define and regulate the relationships among the
Government of Venezuela, MARNR, HIDROCARIBE, the State of Monagas
(Gobernaci6n), the Municipalities and AdM. At the same time, these arrangements will
serve as a demonstration and test exercise to help define requirements of the new
regulatory framework under preparation. Annex C describes in detail each of these issues
and the resulting legal agreements that will enable the Govermment to move forward with
this demonstration decentralization project.



17
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin
3.1.   At the national level, the project originates from the WS&S decentralization and
restructuring policy expressed in the Government's overall sector strategy. This is based
on the concept of separation of the ownership, operation and regulatory functions and on
the involvement of stakeholders in the planning and decision activities. It is also based on
fostering the efficient participation of private operators in the sector by providing a
transparent and equitable regulatory framework and developing experiences and policies
that could facilitate this participation. These principles have been fully embraced by
HIDROVEN and by the regional and local authorities of the state of Monagas.
3.2.  At the level of the state of Monagas, the project origin can be traced to the demand
of state and local authorities for the decentralization of sector management and for the
transfer of WS&S services to the municipalities, with the creation of AdM and the transfer
of responsibilities from HIDROCARIBE to AdM. This arrangement has been very
effective and has helped to create a decisive consensus among involved stakeholders, users
and institutions.
3.3.   The state of Monagas was selected to put in place the first effective
decentralization of the WS&S services and to introduce efficiency reforms aimed at
achieving improved service delivery and financial self sufficiency, under a demonstration
project. Monagas was chosen because: (i) there is a high degree of political commnitment
by the state government and municipalities to decentralization; (ii) WS&S services in the
state are in practice contained within the states borders; (iii) these services have a large
potential for improvement and the demand and willingness to pay for them among the
population seemed sufficient to warrant support for the process; and (iv) most important
rivers for WS&S start and discharge into the sea within the state, making feasible and
coherent with the decentralization approach of the project, the solution of problems
related to the management and allocation of water resources. Project identification was
initiated in January 1993 but significant project preparation activities only began in January
1995 after the approval of the Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development grant
and additional support from the Austrian and Spanish governments was secured.
3.4.   Participatory approach. During project preparation, two formal workshops and
several other informal meetings were held with project stakeholders, including
representatives from the Governor's office, the Municipalities, HIDROVEN, AdM, the
Juntas Parroquiales, industry and commerce associations, and local consulting firms
involved in the project. In those workshops, stakeholders endorsed the project concept
and its design. In particular, they supported the need for a Contract Plan among AdM and
its stockholders to spell out targets and responsibilities and for a performance-based
management contract for AdM  with a private operator.  They also endorsed the



18
conditionality to be included in the operation to ensure its success and showed their
understanding for the need to improve commercial practices and undertake tariff
adjustments.
3.5.   Two willingness to pay studies were also carried out, one among households in
Maturin and another among rural communities. These were preceded by meetings with
focus groups, each with ten to twenty participants from different neighborhoods
corresponding to different socioeconomic backgrounds. These meetings were aimed at
collecting preliminary information on users' opinions and level of satisfaction with the
service quality, alternative water supply sources (e.g. private back-up arrangements),
billing and collection procedures and amounts spent by household on water and other
public services. Participants were also given the opportunity to react to the proposed
institutional and service changes planned under the project and to trial tariffs which could
be charged under the improved scheme. These studies and the meetings with the focus
groups have proven essential to: (i) measure and promote demand for the project among
the population, (ii) identify the main elements used to define the project design; (iii)
establish support among local policy-makers for a more rigorous approach to WS&S
services management that relies on user's contribution;  (iv) ratify tariff increase
recommendations resulting from the financial analyses carried out during project
preparation; and (v) determine rural communities' valuation of and willingness to share
investment and O&M costs for improved water systems. These studies also added much
needed light on customer concerns over current service and on preferences and priorities
for the future improvements to the system, thereby providing policy-makers and the
project preparation team with a clear sense of the priorities to be addressed.
3.6.   Additionally, local and national NGOs have been consulted about the project and,
as a result of these consultations, NGOs will be incorporated in the project execution, both
as facilitators of the actions and investments in rural areas and as part of the independent
evaluators of the project success and of the degree of achievement of its objectives.
B. Project Objectives
3.7.   The project's principal objective is to increase the efficiency and quality of WS&S
services in Venezuela through the development of a model for decentralization,
institutional strengthening, and expanded private sector participation. The project has
three specific objectives: (a) assist in the strengthening of AdM, develop its financial self-
sufficiency, and involve the private sector in the management and operation of the
company; (b) rehabilitate and improve the quality of WS&S services in Monagas; and (c)
support sector development and decentralization at the national level, including water
resources management. As a demonstration operation, the project will implement sector
reforms in the state of Monagas that could be replicated in other states and will strengthen
HIDROVEN's capacity to provide assistance to that effect. The project was selected over
other alternatives which would have attempted reform of the sector more rapidly and
broadly, because the Government wants to test innovative approaches on a small scale,



19
and because state and local authorities in Monagas are highly motivated to improve water
utility performance.
C. Project Description
3.8.   The project includes two components to finance:  (I) regional institutional
strengthening and investment in rehabilitating the existing WS&S systems in the State of
Monagas to improve quality and efficiency of service delivery;  and (2) national
institutional strengthening. A summarized description of each of these components is
presented below. A more detailed description is included in Annexes E through I.
The Regional Component
3.9.   This component seeks to strengthen AdM  and rehabilitate the existing WS&S
infrastructure. It would include the following:
(a)   Institutional strengthening and support to AdM. This would finance: (i)
contracting of management consultant services with a private operator (see annex
E);  (ii) equipment, consultant services and systems to improve commercial
practices, supervise the management contract, promote private sector participation
(including assistance in the bidding process for a concession or lease contract), and
execution of a public information campaign, a survey of customer satisfaction and
the use of a local NGO for the evaluation of the project success;  and (iii)
engineering consultant services to prepare an improvement and expansion plan for
the water and sewerage systems, including the final design of the rehabilitation
works to be financed under this project and the design of a preventive maintenance
program.
(b)   Rehabilitation in urban areas. This would finance the rehabilitation of the
WS&S services in the urban areas and some expansion in marginal areas. The
selection of these investments has been based on least-cost criteria and on a set of
priorities and objectives agreed with AdM and its stakeholders during project
preparation (see Annex F for further details). Agreements were confirmed during
negotiations on the selection and grouping of the investments in urban areas into
three rehabilitation packages consisting of. (i) emergency works; (ii) priority
rehabilitation works for the first two years, to be conditioned on the signing of the
management contract with the private operator;  and (iii) works for the
improvement of service quality, to be conditioned on the achievement of Contract
Plan targets (para 5.2 b):
* The first rehabilitation package will finance emergency works required to
avoid the physical collapse of the urban water supply systems, correct the
principal water losses and water quality problems and help lessen acute water
shortages that have had an important negative impact on customers



20
satisfaction. To this end, the emergency investments will be concentrated in
the improvement and rehabilitation of the pumping systems, in the
interconnection of the networks, in the correction of the most important water
losses and-in the provision of basic and reliable disinfection. These investments
will be contracted and carried out before project effectiveness, following
procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank to be eligible for retroactive
financing. Engineering designs and bidding documents for these investments
have been prepared with funds provided by a grant from the Austrian
government and by the state government.
* The second rehabilitation package will finance priority rehabilitation works,
mainly focused on the reduction of unaccounted-for-water and improvements
of the system efficiency that are expected to have a great incidence in
customer's satisfaction, in the reliability of the service and in the financial
situation of AdM. This second package is expected to be completed within the
first two years of project execution, before the mid-term review.
* The third rehabilitation package will finance works for the improvement of
service quality and some expansion of coverage in marginal areas. It will
include the rehabilitation and improvement of potable water production
infrastructure, the rehabilitation and expansion of water distribution and
sewerage networks and the rehabilitation and improvement of existing
wastewater management infrastructure.
(c)   Institutional development and rehabilitation of rural water systems. To
support the development of the PROPAMAR, this subcomponent would finance
investments and technical assistance to improve rural WS&S services and create
management capacity at the community level. The investments will include civil
works, equipment and materials for the improvement and some expansion of these
systems to provide a basic level of service defined as an in-house connection for
every household, 150 liters per capita per day availability; and potable water.
Rural WS&S systems in approximately 85 communities covering about 45,000
inhabitants (about 50 % of the state's rural population) are expected to be financed
over four years under this subcomponent. The technical assistance will finance the
coordination and administration of the PROPAMAR by AdM, through the services
of a non-governmental organization (NGO)' which will: (i) carry out a campaign
to promote the proposed program; (ii) assist communities in organizing and
identifying their needs, preparing a proposal in the form of a Community Water
Action Plan (COWAP) and building up their capacity to take over the management
of their rural water system using commercial practices; and (iii) help Municipalities
build capacity to take over technical assistance to communities once the NGO
withdraws (see annex G for further details).
This includes the possibility of contracting the services of a consulting firm, since the contract will be
awarded through a competitive bidding process. All further references to "the NGO" in this
document should be understood to include a consulting firm as well.



21
The National Institutional Component
3.10.  The national institutional component will finance consultant services, equipment
and training to assist and promote the modernization of the Venezuelan water supply and
sanitation sector.  It will support:  (i) implementation of the legal and regulatory
framework proposal under preparation for the sector; (ii) creation and/or strengthening of
national sector institutions; (iii) increasing technical, managerial and monitoring capacity
at the national, as well as local level to regulate, plan and operate these services; (iv)
meetings, workshops and a public awareness campaign to stimulate a broad social support
for the modernization of WS&S and the rational use of the water resources; (v) preparing
training and dissemination materials; and (vi) facilitating the preparation of at least four
projects to duplicate the model developed in Monagas.  The national institutional
component will consist of four subcomponents, three to support the Technical Assistance
Program, National Training Program and Sector Decentralization Program, respectively,
and one to finance consultant support to HIDROVEN to manage the component and
overall project coordination and evaluation activities (see Annex H for further details):
(a)    The Technical Assistance Program  subcomponent will assist in the
implementation of the legal and regulatory framework which is currently under
design with support from a PHRD Grant from the Government of Japan and from
the Bank. It will finance consultant services and equipment for:
*  institutional strengthening of national sector institutions (HIDROVEN
and the regulatory agency or agencies to be defined), including: (i) a
study to define the organizational structure of the sector according to
the proposed Regulatory Framework; (ii) technical assistance; and (iii)
implementation of a management information system in HIDROVEN
and preparation of an inventory of basic sectoral information needed to
plan, regulate and provide technical assistance to sector institutions;
*  preparation of sectoral norms and standards; and
*  development and implementation of policies for: (i) management of
shared water resources and related infrastructure; (ii) management of
rural water systems and (iii) institutional organization and promotion of
private sector participation.
Additionally, this subcomponent will finance studies, equipment and related
consulting services to support the design, creation and functioning of a Users'
Hydrographic Confederation (CHU) for the management of water resources in the
Amana and Guarapiche river basins, in the state of Monagas, as a demonstration
case.  The design will be based on the idea that effective water resources
management is best achieved through an organization that:  (i) is given the
authority to establish and implement a water resources plan; (ii) meets the goal of
financial sustainability;  and (iii) is locally based, represents the users and



22
stakeholders in a river basin and responds to and is financially dependent on them.
Since the main role of the CHU will be to develop and implement management
criteria and principles to plan for the allocation and protection of water resources
in this area, this sub-component will also provide support to the CHU to develop a
basic information systems for these river basins, prepare a management plan and
set up the necessary institutional capacity to implement it (see Annex I for further
details). Preliminary work to design the CHU has been carried out with the help of
a grant from the Spanish government. Assurances have been obtained that a
reform proposal and implementation plan. satisfactory to the Bank, for the creation
of the Users' Hydrographic Confederation will be submitted to the Bank by July
31. 1997 and that such plan would be implemented in accordance with the agreed
terms (para 5.2 d).
(b)   The National Training Program  subcomponent will finance courses,
seminars and a public information campaign to: (i) increase technical capacity at
the national and local government level in order to promote the implementation of
a modern regulatory and institutional framework,  (ii) improve technical and
managerial skills of professionals and decision makers of the WS&S sector; and
(iii) stimulate appreciation and understanding among society of the importance of
the rational use and conservation of water resources and the proper commercial
management of WS&S services.
(c)   The Sector Decentralization Program  subcomponent will finance the
preparation of at least four new rehabilitation projects, replicating the model
developed in Monagas in other states or regional water companies. The Program
will include: (i) preparation of investment plans for the physical rehabilitation of
the systems; and (ii) technical, legal, institutional and financial studies necessary to
define the decentralization projects according to the model developed in Monagas.
(d)   The fourth subcomponent will finance consultant services and equipment to
assist HIDROVEN in legal and institutional development issues related to the
management of the national institutional component and overall project
coordination.  This will be provided through specialized consultants and a
consultant services contract that will include professional and support services and
related equipment needs. Submission of terms of reference for these consultant
services was condition of negotiations (para 5.1 h). Agreements were reached
during negotiations on the project management and monitoring capacity to be
retained in HIDROVEN and AdM (para 5.2 k). As a condition of disbursement
for the national institutional component. HIDROVEN will contract and retain as
part of its project implementation unit, consultants in the areas of financial analysis.
procurement. sanitary engineering, social communications and legal (para 5.4 e).



23
D. Project Cost and Financing
Project Cost
3. 11. Project cost estimates are summarized in table 3. 1. Total project cost, excluding
import duties and taxes, but including interest during construction, is estimated at US$
69.8 million. The cost of project components for system rehabilitation and expansion were
estimated with the assistance of consultants on the basis of the identified eligible
investments.
Table 3.1. Project Cost and Financing
(US$ millions)
Component                                             Local Foreign   Total      %
Direct Cost
Regional Component                                    32.8      7.6   40.4  74.2%
1. AdM Support Subcomponent (reimbursable)            28.9      7.6   36.5  67.2%
L.a. Institutional Support to AdM                       0.7     3.0    3.8   6.9
Management Contract Services                   -     2.0    2.0
Commercial System                           0.1      0.1    0.1
Institutional Support                       0.3      0.2    0.4
Public Awareness Campaign and Monitoring     0.2     0.2    0.4
Water and Sanitation Master Plan            0.2      0.6    0.8
L.b. Rehabilitation Investments                       28.2      4.6   32.8  60.3%
Emergency Works                              2.3     0.5    2.8
Priority Rehabilitation Works               14.8     2.4   17.2
Works for Service Quality Improvement      11.1      1. 7   12.8
2. Rural Rehabilitation Subcomp. (non-reimbursable)     3.9       -    3.9   7.1%
2. a. Institutional Support                             0.9       -    0.9   1.6%
2b. Rehabilitation Investments                          3.0       -    3.0   5.5%
National Institutional Component                       9.0      5.0   14.0  25.8%
Technical Assistance Program                 1.9     2.7    4.6
National Training Program                   2.7      0.5    3.2
Pre-Investments                             2.5      1.7    4.2
Comp Management and Project Coord.           1.8     0.2    2.0
Subtotal Direct Cost                                  41.7    12.6   54.4  100.0%
Physical Contingencies                                  3.6     0.9    4.5
Price Contingencies                                     2.3     0.7    3.0
Project Cost                                          47.7    14.2   61.8
Interest During Construction                             -      8.0    8.0
Total Project Cost (excluding taxes)                  47.7    22.2   69.8
Taxes                                                   1.3       -    1.3
Total Project Cost                                    48.9    22.2   71.1
3.12.  The cost of institutional strengthening and technical assistance investments was
estimated on the basis of the TOR and expected scope of work and on available local and
international consultant costs for similar tasks. Costs are based on December 1994 price



24
levels. Allowance for price escalation has been incorporated in the US dollars cost
estimate using the MUV inflation index for FY96: 1.5%; FY97: 1.8%; FY98: 2.6% and
2.5% for both FY99 and FY2000. A physical contingency of 10% has been used for civil
works and equipment purchases and of 5% for consultant services in all project
components (see Annexes E-H for further detail).
Project Financing
3.13. The project cost would be financed by (see table 3.2): US$ 39.0 million by the
World Bank (about 55 percent of total project costs); US$ 5.5 million by the IDB
(institutional strengthening and a national training program; see Annex H, table 1) as part
of the project now under preparation for rehabilitation of the Caracas system2 (about 8
percent of total project cost); and US$ 26.6 million (37 percent of total project cost) by a
combination of national (US$ 10.3 million), state (US$ 2.7 million) and municipal (US$
1.4 million) government transfers and internal cash generation from AdM (US$ 12.2
million).
Table 3.2. Financing Plan
(US$ millions)
Source of Funds                              Local   Foreign      Total       %
The World Bank                                27.9       11.1     39.0      55%
IDB                                            4.1        1.4      5.5       8%
National Government                            1.9        8.3     10.3      14%
Local and States Participation                15.0        1.3     16.3      23%
Total Project Cost                            48.9       22.2     71.1    100%
% of Total                                  68.8%      31.2%    100.0%
E. Legal and Institutional Issues
3.14.  The contracts and agreements developed during project preparation to address
legal and institutional issues that could represent constraints for project implementation
and complement, in an interim basis, the existing legal and regulatory framework for the
sector, can be grouped in two types: (i) those that regulate the operation of AdM, and (ii)
those regulate the implementation of the project. To regulate the operation of AdM six
contracts and agreements will be or have been signed by AdM (see Figure 3):
(i)    Service Transfer Agreement between HIDROCARIBE and AdM  for the
transfer of responsibilities, assets and part of the personnel,
2  Assurances were obtained on the inclusion in the Legal Agreement, as events of default, of (i) failure
of the IDB loan agreement in becoming effective by one year after effectiveness of the Bank loan; and
(ii) standard cross-default with IDB legal agreement (para 5.2 1).



25
(ii)   Comodatum Agreement between AdM and MARNR that cedes to AdM
the right to use the infrastructure for the production of drinking water in
the State of Monagas;
(iii)  Service Contracts between AdM and the Municipalities authorizing AdM
to provide the WS&S services;
(iv)   Contract Plan between AdM and its stockholders (State of Monagas and
the Mancomunidad) to define the responsibilities of each party and the
performance targets for AdM,
(v)   Management Contract between AdM and a private operator to manage the
services over a period of four years; and
(vi)   Ratification  Agreements of the municipalities to  harmonize  these
documents and correct some inconsistencies and lack of definition detected
in the Mancomunidad's and AdM's statutes.
\ 2 | ~~ESTADO MONAGAS|
t. Agreement of transe of        MoMNOMN\A
2. Comodatum Agreement for     3  C   a  Arent
water production  , t   a     a         hv b       e
3. Contract-Plan.      |PRIVATE O PERAT:O~R]| \<(X
4. Service Contract                              C     X
5. Management Contracti
.   EVC                 MUNICIPALITIES
Figure 3.1. Contracts and Agreements
To regulate project implementation, two additional agreements have been prepared:
(vii)  Subsidiary Agreement between the national government (through the
Ministry of Finance and MARNR) HIDROVEN and AdM to (a) transfer
loan proceeds, on a reimbursable basis, to AdM for the institutional
development of AdM and the three rehabilitation packages for urban areas



26
under the regional component; (b) transfer loan proceeds, on a grant basis,
to AdM for the rural rehabilitation subcomponent; and (c) transfer loan
proceeds, on a grant basis, to HIDROVEN for the national institutional
component.
(viii) 7rust Fund Operating Agreement among AdM and a Fiduciary Bank, for
delineating the terms and conditions under which the Fiduciary Bank shall
administer all funds to be provided for the financing of the regional
component.
3.15. The legal agreements presented above will enable the project to go forward, taking
advantage of the strong motivation existing among officials at the central and local
government levels. Given the importance of these agreements to project execution,
Submission of signed copies satisfactory to the Bank of the Ratification Agreements,
Comodatum Agreements, Service Contracts and Service Transfer Agreement and draft
copies satisfactory to the Bank of the Contract Plan, Subsidiary Agreement and Trust
Fund Operating Agreement was condition of negotiations (para 5.1 d and e). Submission
of signed copies of the Contract Plan, Subsidiarv Agreement and Trust Fund Operating
Agreement is a condition of loan effectiveness (para 5.3 a).
The Contract Plan
3.16. A Contract Plan will be signed between AdM, as one of the parties, and the state
government and the Mancomunidad as the other party. The Contract Plan will spell out
the responsibilities of each of the parties and will thus become the main reference tool for
both the state government and the Mancomunidad to evaluate management performance,
and for the Bank to monitor and supervise the project. The key performance indicators of
the Contract Plan, which will evolve with time, reflecting the expected improvements in
efficiency, will be used for the project's monitoring of AdM. These are summarized in
table 3.3. Agreements were reached during negotiations on the content of the Contract
Plan, particularly on the financial, physical and investment monitoring indicators and
targets (para 5.2 a).
3.17. For their part, the state government and the Mancomunidad would agree to the
following:
*  Timely provision of the counterpart funds needed for project implementation.;
*  Provision of funds to meet AdM's obligations until AdM  reaches financial self-
sufficiency;
*  A single tariff structure for the State of Monagas, and a tariff level consistent with
AdM's financial-self sufficiency goals;
*  Managerial autonomy, including personnel administration (hiring, firing, promotions
and salary levels);



27
. Full support of AdM's metering and billing goals and full support for AdM's
disconnection policies for non-payment of water service.
Table 3.3. AdM Monitoring Indicators and Targets
(Local currency: million Bs, current)
Indicator                                   1,996    1,997    1,998    1,999    2,000
Financial Indicators
Operating Ratio (%)                         111%       85%      84%      80%      78%
Debt Service Coverage                          1.5      2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0
Quick Ratio                                   4.4       6.5      6.3      6.1       6.6
Contribution to Investment Program (%)        0%       12%      17%      33%      33%
Users billed (%)                             61%       77%      80%      83%      85%
Collections/billing (%)                      64%       73%      76%      78%      80%
Accounts receivable (months)                  4.0       3.1      2.8      2.7       2.5
Physical Indicators
Water Connections served                   78,700   82,200   85,800   89,200   92,500
Sewerage Connections served                49,300   52,000   55,200   60,400   66,300
Residential Clients with meters (%)           2%       14%      26%      40%      50%
Large Consumers with Meters (%)              33%       60%     100%     100%      100%
New Meters Installed (per year)              1,000   10,400   11,500   13,500   10,000
Unaccounted-for-water (°/O)                  66%       52%      47%      43%      40%
Billing period (days)                          48       37        34       32       30
Collection period (days)                       72       56       50        48       45
Days of rationing per year                     25       15        10        7        5
Investments and Grants
Rehabilitation Investments (million Bs)      1,539    7,978   10,089    9,871    12,962
Accumulated                                  1,539    9,516   19,605   29,475   42,437
Total grants to Investments (million Bs)    1,539    1,863    1,483         -         -
Accumulated                                  1,539    3,402    4,885    4,885    4,885
National Government                         307.7    931.5    741.7         -         -
Accumulated                                   308    1,239    1,981    1,981    1,981
State Government                            923.2    558.9    445.0         -        -
Accumulated                                   923    1,482    1,927    1,927    1,927
Municipalities                              307.7    372.6    296.7         -         -
Accumulated                                   308      680       977      977      977
3.18. The Contract Plan will have a duration of four years. To ensure compliance with
the Contract Plan, a supervisory committee will be appointed with three representatives:
one from the Governor's office, one from the Mancomunidad and one from AdM. The
Committee shall meet at least twice a year, and prior to the mid-term review, to propose
the changes that might be necessary to reach the original goals. Submission to the Bank of
a draft Contract Plan was condition of negotiations (para 5.1 e). As a condition of loan
effectiveness, the Contract Plan shall have been signed by AdM. the state of Monagas
government and all municipalities in the state of Monagas which have authorized to
operate under a signed service contract (this includes all municipalities, except Cedefio)



28
(para 5.3 a). As condition of disbursements for urban rehabilitation investments in Cedefio
or any new municipality, such municipality shall sign the Contract Plan (para 5.4 a).
Management Contract
3.19. AdM will contract a private sector operator to manage AdM for a period of four
years. The management contract is intended to provide AdM with a private operator's
management approach and with the experience and working methodology that are
required to confront the important transformation process initiated with the transfer of
responsibilities from H1DROCARIBE. It is also intended to complement and improve the
chances of success of the financial support that will be provided through the project for
the company's strengthening and the rehabilitation of the existing infrastructure. The
management contract would be a first step in the process of involving the private sector in
the delivery of the service, which is expected to result in a concession or lease contract at
the end of the project.
3.20. Under the design that has been adopted for the management contract, the operator
will be directly responsible for the management of the services and the contracts with
providers, for controlling the commercial activities of AdM and for the implementation
and monitoring of the works and investments to be financed by the project.  The
responsibility of managing the services also includes the obligatory achievement of the
performance targets of the Contract Plan agreed upon by AdM and its stakeholders. Key
tasks to be carried out by the operator include the management of:  (i) setting up
macrometering of production; (ii) development and implementation of the commercial and
information system; (iii) public relations with customers; and (iv) review of present
contracts with local operators for the provision of labor and equipment services for the
operation and maintenance of the systems. Investments required for these activities,
particularly for installing macrometering of production, computer hardware and software
for the commercial system and development of a public awareness campaign will be
financed under the project.
3.21. Consistent with its objectives, the management contract will be incentive-based to
encourage the private operator to reduce unaccounted-for-water and improve collection of
bills above the targets set in the Contract Plan. It has also been designed so that the direct
risk taken by the private operator is minimized by fixed monthly payments, financed by the
project as part of the regional component. These payments will only be conditioned to the
successful achievement of performance targets equal to those adopted as part of the
Contract Plan (penalties will apply when these performance targets are not reached). This
approach has been adopted in order to overcome the doubts that could arise in potential
operators because of the past experience with the failed concession of Caracas, the present
macroeconomic situation of Venezuela and the conditions of AdM.  Submission of
evidence that AdM has issued the letter of invitation for the Management Contract bid was
a condition of negotiations (para 5.1 f). Signature and effectiveness of the Management
Contract is a condition of disbursement for the second rehabilitation package of
investments (para 5.4 b).



29
F. Project Implementation
3.22. Executing Agencies. The project will be implemented over a four-year period.
The borrower will be the Republic of Venezuela. AdM will execute the regional
component and HIDROVEN will execute the national institutional component. Present
experience of co-execution of Bank project among national and local-regional institutions
is very limited in Venezuela. Since this project intends to support decentralization, to
ensure that this concept is met and to simplify the management by AdM of the loan
proceeds for the subcomponents it will execute, confirmation of the request to the Finance
Commission of the National Congress to include AdM as co-executor of the project,
together with HIDROVEN, in the Umbrella Law (Ley Paraguas) 1996 was condition of
negotiations (para 5.1 c).
3.23.  Flow of Funds. The loan proceeds for the reimbursement of expenses incurred
under the regional component will be transferred into a trust fund managed by AdM, with
two accounts: (i) the first account will be used for the expenses related to the institutional
support to AdM and the three rehabilitation packages in urban areas and will receive the
funds as reimbursable transfers made according to a subsidiary loan agreement, between
the national government and AdM, with the same maturity and grace period as the Bank
loan; (ii) the second account will be used for the expenses related to the PROPAMAR,
which will receive the funds as non-reimbursable transfers from the national government as
part of a direct subsidy to poor rural users. The interest rate for the reimbursable transfers
of funds will be variable and pegged to the active rate for the six largest commercial banks
as reported by the Central Bank. Funds for the national institutional component will be
provided to HIDROVEN as a non-reimbursable transfer from the Government. Project
Management Units will be established in AdM and HIDROVEN to implement the
components that each will execute. HIDROVEN will coordinate overall monitoring and
reporting activities to the Bank. A detailed Implementation Plan is presented in Arnnex J.
Agreements were reached during negotiations on the onlending conditions for the
subsidiary loan to AdM, the conditions for the grant transfer of loan proceeds to AdM for
the PROPAMAR, and to HIDROVEN for the national institutional component (para 5.2
e) and the content and conditions of the Trust Fund Operating Agreement (para 5.2 f).
3.24. Disbursement Conditionality. Disbursement of funds for the first rehabilitation
package of emergency rehabilitation works, as well as funds for the institutional support to
AdM, would be contingent upon loan effectiveness. Disbursement for rehabilitation works
in Cedenio or any new municipality will be conditioned on the signature of the Contract
Plan by such municipality (para 5.4 a). Disbursement for the second rehabilitation package
for priority rehabilitation works will be conditioned on the signature and effectiveness of
the Management Contract with a private operator (para 5.4 b). Disbursement for the third
rehabilitation package will be conditioned on compliance with the first year targets
incorporated in the Contract Plan and a determination by the Bank. based on satisfactory
projections. that the targets for the current year will be reached by AdM (para 5.4 c).



30
3.25. Ceilings and eligibility criteria of the PROPAMAR will apply to investments in
rural areas under the rural rehabilitation subcomponent. Two grant ceilings would be set:
the first, amounting to approximately $56 per capita, would apply to those communities
which have a water system that needs to be improved (about 90% of the state's rural
communities); the second, amounting to approximately $180 per capita, would apply to
communities where no water supply infrastructure currently exists (about 10% of the rural
communities of the state). In order to become eligible for financing these communities
will have to: (i) set up or use an existing a community organization to plan, manage and
finance the operation and maintenance of their system; (ii) prepare, with support from
AdM (through the contract with an NGO), a proposal detailing the intended rehabilitation
investments, the nature and cost of the works, the anticipated improvements to be
obtained and the contribution to be raised in cash or in kind by the community for
investment cost-sharing and (iii) agree to take over the management and financing of the
system once it is rehabilitated, detailing the planned scheme for its operation, maintenance
and financing. Submission of a draft operating manual for the PROPAMAR was condition
of negotiations (para 5.1 g). Disbursement for the rural rehabilitation subcomponent will
be conditioned on:  (i) the signature of the contract with an NGO to manage the
PROPAMAR:  (ii) approval of the final operating manual for the PROPAMAR
satisfactory to the Bank: and (iii) initial capitalization of the trust fund in an amount of at
least US$ 150.000 (para 5.4 d and annex G para 11).
3.26.  Project Supervision.  Supervision requirements are expected to be high,
especially during the first year of project implementation. It is expected that at least three
supervision missions per year (four in the first year), staffed by an environmental engineer,
a financial analyst and an specialist in human resources and community participation, plus
one technical specialist from the resident mission, with a duration of about two weeks per
mission, will be required to supervise the project during its implementation.  Bank
missions should plan to visit the municipalities where rehabilitation works are under way,
at least once during construction and once during the operation of the rehabilitated
infrastructure, as well as HIDROVEN' offices in Caracas in relation with the national
component. Other states integrated in the Sector Decentralization Program will be visited
as time and resources permit. For the first year, including the project launch workshop,
the supervision requirements are estimated at about 45 to 50 staff weeks (about 15 staff
weeks from the resident mission, mainly for day to day supervision).  Supervision
requirements will fall to about 35 to 40 staff weeks per year thereafter (about 10 to 15
staff weeks per year from the resident mission).
3.27. Monitoring and Reporting Requirements. Overall coordination and report
preparation would be the responsibility of the Implementation Units in HIDROVEN and
AdM, which would submit semi-annual reports to all the financing agencies, the
Mancomunidad, the state's government office and HIDROVEN. Agreements were
reached during negotiations on the content and timetable for preparing and submitting to
the Bank audited project accounts and financial statements (para 5.2 h). Reporting



31
requirements and their content are spelled out in the project's implementation plan (Annex
J).
3.28. Both HIDROVEN and AdM have had little experience with managing a project
under Bank guidelines. Their capacity will be strengthened by the adoption of accounting
and financial monitoring procedures satisfactory to the Bank and by the hiring of qualified
consultants and the contracting of the private operator in AdM under the management
contract (see annex J). Recognizing these institutions' unfamiliarity with Bank procedures
and guidelines, it is also proposed that within two months after loan approval, a launch
workshop will be held in Venezuela. The purpose of this workshop will be to acquaint the
Implementation Units with Bank's procedures and therefore ensure that the project will get
off to an expeditious and good start.  The workshop will concentrate on fulfilling
conditions for effectiveness and disbursement, on procurement and sample bid documents,
on withdrawal requests, on reporting (including monitoring of key project performance
indicators), on accounting of expenses procedures (as part of project preparation,
guidelines and support is being provided to HIDROVEN and AdM on this matter,
particularly for the eligible expenses for retroactive financing) and in general on all key
project events.  Adoption by AdM  and HIDROVEN  of accounting and financial
monitoring procedures satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of effectiveness (para 5.3 c).
3.29. Mid-Term Review. The mid-term review will be carried out not be later than 2
years from the date that the loan becomes effective.  During this review particular
attention will be paid to the status of: (a) compliance with the performance indices
included in the Contract Plan (see table 3.3.); (b) creation and proper functioning of the
CHU; (c) degree of community participation in the project in general, and in the rural
systems in particular; (d) compliance with covenants, particularly those dealing with the
restructuring, finances and auditing of the sector and tariff level and structure;  (e)
progress in procurement; and (f) project success as indicated by user's satisfaction and the
report of a local NGO.  The mid-term  review will be carried out jointly by the
Government, the Mancomunidad, the state government, HIDROVEN, the IDB and the
Bank. As a result of this review corrective steps will be proposed. These might include
modifications in project scope and/or components, changes in covenants, etc. The project
has also been structured so that, depending on the results of the mid-term Review,
contracting of certain project components will proceed or be postponed or canceled. A
detailed implementation plan for the project is also included in Annex J. Agreements were
reached during negotiations on the project's implementation plan and the timing and
content of the project's annual and mid-term review mission and semiannual reports (para
5.2 c and i).
G. Procurement, Disbursement and Auditing
3.30.  Procurement.  HIDROVEN  and AdM  will be responsible for procurement
implementation. They will manage the multiple purchases required for project implementation
with the help of the consultant services hired under the national institutional component (in the



32
case of H1DROVEN) and the private operator hired under the management contract (in the
case of AdM). Their capacity and skills to this end will be enhanced during the planned
project's launch workshop. Article 73 of Venezuela's Procurement Law [Ley de Licitacionesy
su Reglamento, Gazeta Oficial No. 34.528 (1990) y No. 34.628 (1991)] states that contracts
which are financed by international financial institutions will be procured following the
procurement guidelines of the respective institutions. Procurement of goods and civil works
under the project would be done in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated January 1995, as revised in January 1996, using
Bank-issued standard bidding documents for international competitive bidding (ICB), and
standard bidding documents agreed to with the Bank for national competitive bidding (NCB).
The project procurement arrangements are summarized in table 3.4.
3.31. It is estimated that 8 percent of the loan will be used to procure goods and services
under ICB, 33 percent under NCB and 10 percent under fixed price contracts awarded on
the basis of quotations obtained from, at least, three qualified domestic contractors in
response to a written invitation. Of the remainder, 38 percent will be devoted to procure
consultants' services under Bank guidelines.  Specific procurement arrangements for
consultant services, civil works and goods and equipment purchases are detailed below:
(a)    Procurement of Consultants. The contracting of US$ 14.6 million of
consulting firms and of individual consultants to be Bank financed would be carried
out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants, dated
August 1981, which require prior review by the Bank of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contract. For complex consulting assignments, Bank-issued standard forms of
contract would be used. Consultant services worth US$ 5.4 million would be
financed by the IDB and would be contracted according to IDB's guidelines.
(b)   Procurement of Civil Works. Given the nature of the goods and services
to be procured under the project, participation is expected from local contractors.
Civil works includes repairs to the existing water and sewerage systems, most of which
is relatively small in size and geographically dispersed. As the largest civil works
contract will not exceed US$ 2 million, it is unlikely that foreign contractors would be
interested. To the extent practicable, civil works would be grouped into packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 250,000 or more, and procured on the basis of
NCB. Very small works which cannot be grouped into packages estimated to cost
the equivalent of less than US$ 250,000 would be procured under lump sum, fixed
price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three
eligible contractors in response to a written invitation, up to an approximate
aggregate of US$ 5.1 million.



33
Table 3.4. Procurement Arrangements
(million US$)
Procurement Categories                        ICB    NCB Other (*) NBF(**)    Total
Works      A.Civil Works                         -    20.6       5.1         -     25.7
-   (10.4)    (2.6)        -   (13.0)
Goods      B.Equipment/Materials               5.6      7.0      4.6       0.1     17.3
(3.9)   (4.4)    (2.9)         -   (11.3)
Technical  C. (i) Institutional Strengthening                   10.4       1.9     12.3
Assistance                                                     (10.4)        -   (10.4)
(***
(ii) Engineering and Studies                         4.2                4.2
(4.2)              (4.2)
(iii) Training                                                 3.5      3.5
Interest during Construction                                                        8.0
Total Cost                                     5.6    27.6      24.5       5.5     71.1
Total Bank Disbursements                     (3.9)  (14.8)   (20.2)          -   (39.0)
Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by the proposed Bank loan. Totals might not add due to
rounding
(*) Works to be procured on the basis of three quotations procedure for minor works and goods to be
procured through national and intemational shopping
(**) Non-Bank Financed
(***) Consultant services to be provided in accordance with Bank guidelines
(c)    Procurement of Goods.  Purchases of goods would consist of computer
equipment, pumps, motors, valves, meters, pipes, chlorinators and electric command
boards. To the extent practicable, goods will be grouped into packages estimated to
cost the equivalent of US$ 250,000 or more and procured on the basis of ICB. In the
evaluation of bids under ICB, the preference for domestically manufactured goods
provided for in the Bank's Guidelines will apply. Goods estimated to cost less than
US$ 250,000 may be procured through NCB, up to an aggregate of US$ 7 million.
Small purchases which cannot be grouped into packages estimated to cost the
equivalent from US$ 50,000 or more may be procured using national or intemational
shopping procedures, up to an aggregate of US$ 4.6 million. Purchases of computer
equipment will be small and not expected to exceed US$ 200,000 in total and would be
carried out through international shopping among suppliers with service facilities in
Venezuela.
3.32. Prior Review Arrangements. Requirements for Bank's prior review of procurement
documentation will be as follows:



34
(a)    Goods and Civil Works. All bid packages of US$ 100,000 or more for goods
and US$ 250,000 or more for works, and the first two contracts for works after project
effectiveness, irrespective of their amount, would be subject to the Bank's prior review
of procurement documentation.
(b)    Consultant Services. All consultant contracts estimated at the equivalent of
US$ 100,000 or more for firms and US$ 50,000 or more for individuals would be
subject to the Bank's prior review. The requirement of Bank prior review will not
apply to contracts valued at less than the aforementioned amounts. However, this
exception to prior Bank review will not apply to: (i) the terms of reference for said
contracts; (ii) single-source selection of consulting firms; (iv) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably deterrnined by the Bank; and (v) amendments of contracts raising
the contract value over US$ 100,000 in the case of firms and US$ 50,000 in the case of
individual consultants.
3.33. The prior review thresholds described above will result in prior review by the Bank
of approximately 60 % of the total value of all Bank-financed contracts. This relatively
limited prior review is justified by the fact that most contracts for both goods and works
will be small and widely dispersed in terms of location and timing and by the control
provided through the physical audits to be carried out by the private operator managing
AdM on the urban rehabilitation investments and by the NGO that will manage the
PROPAMAR on the rural rehabilitation investments.
3.34. Disbursements. Disbursements will be made over a four year period, which is
shorter than the average disbursement period for water projects in the LAC Region.
However, given the simple nature of the investments to be financed under the project, and
the management capacity of the private contractor which will facilitate project execution,
the proposed disbursement period is reasonable. In order to lower the risk of insufficient
counterpart funds from the central government due to current fiscal constraints,
disbursements would be made on a declining percentages basis, as shown in tables 3.5 and
3.6 below. These tables also present expected disbursement amounts by category and
year. The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000. Therefore, the closing
date for the proposed loan would be December 31, 2000.
3.35. Expenditures for individual contracts for goods and services for which prior review
by the Bank is not required will be disbursed by means of Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs).  Detailed supporting documentation for expenditures will be kept by the
executing agencies and provided to the Bank's supervision missions and project auditors
when requested. Full documentation shall be provided for all contracts requiring Bank's
prior review.



35
Table 3.5. Allocation of Loan Amount and Percentage of Expenditures to be
Financed
Disbursement Category / Description           Amount of loan    Expenditures Financed
allocated (USS)           (%)
1. Consulting services, training and studies
for Bank financed components
(i) National Institutional Component       9,100,000               100%
(ii) Regional Component                    4,600,000               100%
2. Equipment, goods and materials
(i) National Institutional Component        200,000                100%
Until     From       Until     From
31/12/1998  I/1/1999  31/12/1998  /l1/1999
(ii) Regional Component
(a) AdM support and Urban Rehabilitation  6,250,000  2,950,000    75%  65%
(b) Rural Rehabilitation Works       600,000    800,000     75%        65%
3. Civil works
Regional Component
(a) Urban Rehabilitation Works      7,400,000  4,400,000    55%        45%
(b) Rural Rehabilitation Works       300,000    400,000     55%        45%
4. Unallocated                                            2,000,000
Total                                                     39,000,000
3.36.  Special Account and Retroactive Financing.  In order to expedite the loan
disbursements, a special account in US$ will be opened by the Ministry of Finance in the
Central Bank for US$ 2,400,000. The account would be replenished monthly, upon
receipt of properly documented withdrawal applications. The initial deposit will be limited
to US$ 1,000,000. The balance of the authorized allocation would be available for
withdrawal once aggregated disbursements reach a total of US$ 4,000,000. Subject to
approval by the Central Bank, the Special Account would have two sub-accounts, one for
each executing agency, to facilitate the operation and transparency of the Special Account.
The initial date for retroactive financing will be one year before loan signing. Payments made
for expenditures incurred prior to the date of signing should not exceed an aggregate of US$ 2



36
million (5% of loan amount). Such financing is necessary to address urgent and emergency
rehabilitation works and initiate critical institutional strengthening activities.
Table 3.6. Estimated Bank Disbursement
(million US$)
Fiscal year                   Annual          Cumulative            Percentage
1997                            12.3               12.3                31.4%
1998                            11.1               23.4                60.0%
1999                             8.8               32.2                82.6%
2000                             6.8                39.0              100.0%
3.37. Accounting and Auditing. The financial management capacity of both AdM and
HIDROVEN was reviewed during project appraisal. Although it is expected that most
project management activities will be outsourced, it will still be necessary to improve
capacity in each of these institutions. The project's institutional development components
will address these needs. Before project effectiveness, a financial reporting and accounting
system in both executing agencies will be agreed upon, in order to ensure accountability
and correct management of project funds and to facilitate auditing during project
implementation. The accounting system will be developed following an in-depth review of
budgeting, accounting, internal control and reporting procedures and planned flow of
funds for the project, and it will describe: (i) the sources and uses of funds provided under
the project; and (ii) the amount of expenditures reimbursed through the Statement of
Expenditure system, the Special Account and through direct payment by the Bank,
respectively. The adoption of financial reporting and accounting systems in both agencies
satisfactory to the Bank will also have the objective of guaranteeing the existence of
adequate monitoring and reporting capacity in these executing agencies.
3.38. Bank staff have also reviewed with the authorities the set-up of the necessary
project accounts, the Bank's auditing requirements, and the use and operation of the
Special Account.  The two implementing agencies would manage separate project
accounts. The Bank will review the external auditor's terms of reference for a multi-year
audit contract. The Bank will continue to provide specialized support to the implementing
agencies during the early stages of project implementation. Agreements were confirmed
during negotiations that project accounts, financial statements, the Special Account and
the SOEs would be audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank and
that their reports will be prepared following acceptable auditing standards (para 5.2 g).
The audited accounts and the auditor's report would be submitted to the Bank within six
months following the end of each fiscal year. SOEs will be reviewed by the Bank on a
regular basis.
H. Environmental Impacts
3.39. The project has an environmental category rating of "B". It will concentrate
primarily on the rehabilitation of the existing infrastructure, the development of the legal



37
and institutional framework for the appropriate management of water resources and the
improvement of service quality. Environmental conditions in the urban and rural areas that
now receive inadequate services will improve as a result. The project will also have a
positive impact on the water quality conditions of the state due to the adoption of better
wastewater management practices and the rehabilitation of existing treatment plants.
Specifically, water use conflicts and wastewater management options will be identified,
water quality objectives for selected river basins will be established, pollution loads and
their relative weight in overall water quality of selected river basins will be determined and
watershed protection measures will be identified. These activities will be undertaken
under the subcomponent of the national component that will support the creation and
functioning of the Users' Hydrographic Confederation, to be implemented by
HIDROVEN, with the involvement of the area stakeholders (see annex I for details and
budget line item).
3.40.  Given that the project will finance the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, and
some minor expansion of the distribution and sewerage networks (mainly in marginal and
rural areas), no siting issues, adverse environmental effects or social problems are
expected to be encountered. Therefore, no explicit environmental criteria or review
procedures are required for the relevant subprojects.  Final engineering designs and
consultant services for the preparation of an improvement and expansion plan for the
water and sewerage systems will give adequate attention to environmental issues. Terms
of Reference to be prepared during project implementation for these activities will be
subject to prior Bank review to guarantee this end.
1. Social Impact
3.41. Given the existing relatively high levels of WS&S service coverage in Venezuela,
the impact of the project will mainly be felt through the positive health, social and
environmental consequences of avoiding the deterioration of these coverage levels and
improving the quality and reliability of these services. The project's rural subcomponent
will expand these services, improving and augmenting the present coverage levels among
the poor population in those communities, and it will help strengthen the communities'
involvement and self-reliance in public services planning and provision.
J. Project Sustainability
3.42.  The project has been prepared through a strong participatory process involving
consultation and a series of workshops with all relevant stakeholders (elected officials,
representatives of commerce and industry, user groups and NGOs) and two extensive
willingness to pay studies in the urban and rural areas. There is a broadly shared view in
Venezuela, and particularly in Monagas, that significant institutional reforms are possible
when accompanied by concrete improvements in service reliability. The project will help
obtain these. The project will also help establish an adequate regulatory framework at the



38
national level and an efficient water utility in the state of Monagas to administer WS&S
services in a commercial manner, eliminating national government subsidies over the
implementation period. A financial plan was agreed to achieve, in the early years of
project implementation, the coverage of at least operating costs, and permit, by the end of
the implementation period, debt service and contribution to future expansion. Targets for
financial and physical performance and investments were agreed and incorporated into the
draft Contract Plan to be signed among the state, the Mancomunidad of municipalities and
AdM. In addition, to achieve these targets, AdM will contract, through a competitive
process, the management of the service to a private operator with international experience.



39
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Benefits
4.1.   The major benefits of this project will be:  (a) improved water supply and
sewerage service to the population of the state of Monagas; (b) a well-operated and
financially viable water supply and sewerage system in the state; (c) a clearer delineation
of responsibilities between institutions; and (d) effective sector policies at the national
level. Another important benefit will be the mobilization of additional resources for the
sector through improved billing and collection and appropriate pricing, thereby shifting the
financial burden of the services from the national government to the users.  The
management of AdM by a private operator will be a major impetus to greater involvement
of the private sector in other systems in Venezuela. The project will directly benefit the
majority of the state population, estimated at about 540,000 inhabitants. Improving the
collection and final disposal of wastewater and adopting better wastewater management
practices will also cause environmental benefits.
4.2.  In addition to these benefits, the project is consistent with the Government's
strategy for the sector (para 1.8) and the last Bank Country Assistance Strategy, builds on
lessons learnt from other Bank operations in LAC, and has secured the national and local
government political support (para 1.25 through 1.29). The work carried out during
project preparation has also confirmed its justification through: (i) the economic analysis
of the project as a whole and, particularly, of the rehabilitation investments; (ii) the
financial analysis of AdM; (iii) two willingness-to-pay studies in Maturin and in the state's
rural communities; and (iv) the assessment and mitigation of the project risks. The results
of this preparatory work are presented below, and detailed in Annexes D, K and L.
B. Economic Justification
4.3.   The proposed project will improve water distribution and quality of service and reduce
water losses in Monagas. The evaluation of project costs and benefits of the reallocation of
water among users and reduction of losses, based on a conservative marginal social value for
water of Bs 60 per cubic meter (the current tariff), results in an economic rate of return of
15% for the rehabilitation investment component, or about 65% of project costs. If consumer
surpluses, based on a marginal social value of Bs 100/i3, are also taken into account in the
calculation, the rate of return rises to 27%. The details of this economic analysis are presented
in Annex L. Additional justification for the project can be provided by the expected impacts:
(a) at the macroeconomic level, where the reduction of public transfers will positively impact
the fiscal deficit without reducing the level of service, as AdM assumes service responsibility
and water tariffs are rationalized. Savings could eventually reach more than US$ 200 million
annually in EIIDROVENs budget if this approach is expanded nationwide; (b) at the sector
level, where the proposed project will have an important impact not only on promoting a



40
rational structure to administer water supply systems throughout the country, but it will also
contribute to the performance of other sectors such as public health. In the state of Monagas,
deficient water and sewerage service is regarded as a "public health problem", where local
health officials estimated that 42,000 cases of water-related illnesses (with a pubLic health cost
calculated at US$ 2.4 million annually) can be prevented by improved water and sanitation
services. Concomitant losses in productivity as a result of lbsences from work due to illness
have been estimated to amount to 56,000 work days per year, at an additional cost of about
US$ 0.6 million per year.
4.4.   Quantification of Economic Benefits.  Without the proposed project, it can be
expected that the distribution network in Monagas will continue to deteriorate, current
shortages will become more severe and losses will continue to increase due to lack of
maintenance. With the project, a gradual irnprovement is expected, generating benefits through
the rehabilitation of the distribution network, better operational and financial management and
reduction of losses from waste, excessive consumption and the system's disrepair. The
economic benefits of the project will be derived from (i) the reallocation of water among users
and (ii) the reduction of physical losses. In order to measure the impact of reallocation, it is
assumed that a gradual shift from areas with excessive consumption to shortage areas will take
place in the next 5 years as a result of the proposed project. This shift will reallocate as much
as 10% (5.5 Mm3 per year) of maximum demand, from a "market" which consumes excessive
amounts at almost zero price, toward a "market" which currently has permanent shortages due
to low pressures or distribution problems (deteriorated pipes, non-working valves, in-house
leaks, etc.) and where water has a higher economic value (as detected by the high willingness-
to-pay of the population). This reallocation will result in net gains with a Net Present Value of
US$ 10.2 million'. Physical losses are estimated now at about 20 Mm3 per year or nearly one-
third of production. The impact of system repairs and operation improvements on losses
reduction was estimated assuming that in the next five years, these loses are reduced by 500/o,
that is, 10 Mm3 are recovered yearly by the year 2000 and that such volume will be available to
areas with current deficits and to new consumers. The Net Present Value of the recovery of
physical losses is calculated at US$ 20.5 million. The benefits of (i) recapturing physical losses
and (ii) reallocating water use among consumers due to better operation and management, will
result in a total Net Present Value of about US$ 30.7 million.
4.5.   Sensitivity analysis. The most critical parameters in the calculation of the project's net
benefits are the marginal value of water, the volume of water which can be recovered and the
amount that can be redistributed. The above estimates may be considered a conservative
scenario, since the value of water (Bs 60 per m3) is the minimum which can be assumed (see
annex D where results from the willingness-to-pay studies show that much higher values are
attributed by consumers). Also, the 5.5 Mm3 per year redistributed is only 10% of most
probable consumption, and the 10 Mm3 of physical losses to be reduced in 5 years is only 10%
of production and 50% of the estimated physical losses - a feasible goal.
In this case, there is a zero net transfer in terms of water volumes. Gains are discounted at 12% over a
20 year. As there are no estimates of the marginal cost of capital to use as the discount rate, 12%
is used as point of reference.



41
C. Financial Analysis of AdM
4.6.   Financial Model and Projections.  According to the financial model and
projections prepared using the most reliable information available, under the project
assumptions AdM's future financial performance is expected to be satisfactory. AdM is
expected to generate operating and net incomes on the order of 22% and 13%,
respectively, of revenues by the end of project execution, cover about 33% of investments
by 1999 and 2000 and 100% thereafter, and maintain a debt service coverage ratio above
1.5 after 2000 and over 2 after 2002, and a quick ratio over 6 during project execution
and over 1 .5 after project execution. Rates of return on invested capital are projected by
the model to meet or exceed 5% on revalued assets on 2006. A study to identify and
reevaluate the service's assets and liabilities and the assets transferred under Comodatum
has been carried out during project preparation. These assets (presently under
HIDROCARIBE, MARNR and the municipalities) have been transferred to AdM, upon
the transfer of the service from HIDROCARIBE to AdM, and properly accounted for (the
model takes into consideration assets valued about 2,350 million Bs, that are registered in
HIDROCARIBE's accounts for 1995). Annex K shows the financial forecast for the
period 1996-2005, including a description of the methodology and main assumptions used.
The agreed financial performance covenants for AdM, as confirmed during negotiations,
are shown in table 4.1. (para 5.2 j)
Table 4.1. Financial Targets for AdM
Indicators             1996    1997    1998   1999    2000
Operating Ratio (%)    111%     85%     84%    80%      78%
Debt Service            1.5      2        2      2        2
Contribution to         n/a     12%     17%    33%      33%
Investments (%)
4.7.   Sensitivity Analysis. The analysis of AdM's financial projections showed that the
financial situation of the company is very sensitive to lower-than-expected revenues
because of: (i) delays or lack of adoption of tariff level adjustments; (ii) collection/billing
efficiency is not improved according to projected targets; or (iii) the reduction targets
established for the unaccounted-for-water can not be achieved (the associated reduced
revenues and increased operation costs can not be transferred to the consumers through
tariff adjustments). Small changes in the assumptions for these parameters would impact
on AdM's finances and would easily make the company's investment program not viable



42
(a mere 5% reduction in the tariff adjustment projected for 1997 would result in a
reduction of about 29 and 47% of the net income and cash flow aggregated until 2001 and
a required increase in the counterpart contribution support of about 23%, while a 10%
failure in the target for the reduction of unaccounted-for-water would result in
respectively -12%, -29% and +9% changes in these same indicators). The risk that this
represents will be controlled through intensive and close supervision and the expected
continued political commitment and support for the sustainability of the company and the
project objectives, and through these to the adoption of tariff increases when these are
necessary to counteract exceptional circumstances that are external to AdM's management
capacity. They will additionally be minimized through the contracting of the company's
management to a private operator which has proved experience in this field and the
adoption of an investment program that will concentrate on the rehabilitation of the system
and on metering.
4.8.   On the other hand, the sensitivity of AdM's financial situation to worse than
projected exchange rate and domestic inflation or higher internal interest rates is small.
The exposure of AdM to changes in these parameters can be summarized as follows:
a) AdM's principal exchange rate exposure is linked to the impact on the cost of
imported goods and services to be financed under the project, but not on the debt
service of the bolivar-denominated subloan (exchange rate risks for loan repayment
will remain with the national government). Therefore, the impact of increases over the
expected official exchange rate at the end of 1997 is small, mainly due to the automatic
adjustment of tariffs (an increment of 20% over the projected exchange rate would
only require an increment of the counterpart support of 1%), and this mnight be
mitigated by reductions or changes in the proposed investment plan.
b) Similarly, if tariffs are adjusted according to the present adjustment formula,
AdM's exposure to domestic inflation is mainly linked to the impact it might have on
the exchange rate or the cost of the investments, but only marginally through the
increments of the operation and maintenance costs (the impact of an increment of the
domestic inflation of about 20% over the projection would even have a 3% positive
impact on the net income figures in current bolivares, but would require an increment
in the counterpart support of 7%).
c) The interest rate for the subsidiary loan to AdM is assumed to respond to changes
in the inflation rate, but-if interest rate increases are above these projections, AdM's
main risk will be associate with its difficulty in transferring the incremental cost to
consumers without a tariff increase, since this element is not included as part of the
updating formula. However, since the interest will be capitalized during the
construction period, the impact of increases in the interest rate will be mainly felt on
the cash flow and income after project completion and on the ability of AdM to repay
the loan to the national government.



43
4.9.   Working capital. Initial working capital for AdM will be provided through the
combination of three mechanisms: (i) AdM will collect all accounts receivable as of July
1995, when it took over the commercial management of the service, and keep a
percentage of these payments equivalent to the excess over the historic collection rate of
HIDROCARIBE; (ii) for the period between July and December 1995, HIDROCARIBE
has covered the operating deficit of AdM using the reallocated funds received from the
national government for the operation of the service in the state of Monagas in 1995; and
(iii) a revolving fund will be created in AdM for the financing of the project investments
through the reimbursement by the Bank of the expenses eligible for retroactive financing
executed by HIDROCARIBE, that will be fully covered by grant contributions from the
state and national governments budgeted investment funds.  With the conservative
assumptions used in the financial projections, AdM is expected to maintain a positive cash
balance of about 89 million Bs in 1999 (increasing to 158 and 3,400 million Bs in 2000
and 2001) and to generate increasingly positive balances from this year onwards. Given
the importance of securing sufficient working capital for AdM's proper functioning and
for the adequate project implementation, submission of a plan satisfactory to the Bank for
the provision of working capital for AdM was condition of negotiations (para 5.1 b).
4.10. Financial Risks. As a new company with a low level of permanent personnel and
tariff levels which have been adjusted in line with projected financial needs prior to project
execution, AdM starts off on a financial footing stronger than many similar companies
supported by Bank projects. Nevertheless, it faces financial risks primarily related to
operating in a high inflationary environment for the next several years, including further
expected devaluation of the currency and variable high interest rates under the proposed
onlending arrangements. This environment will only make the movement from a culture
of non-payment for water supply and sanitation services to achievement of financial
autonomy for AdM more difficult. Therefore, the principal risk to the financial viability of
the project relates to the political willingness to make future adjustments to tariffs in the
context of high domestic inflation and adjustments to the exchange rate, lower-than-
expected revenues and slower than expected reductions in unaccounted-for-water levels.
4.11.  Also important is the risk associated to the availability of the funds that are
expected from the national government, both for the investments that are planned to be
carried out before project effectiveness (which are linked to the initial provision of
working capital to AdM) and for counterpart contribution. A possible worsening of the
macroeconomic situation might aggravate this risk.
4.12. The project has been designed to lessen these risks through: (i) a commitment for
a capital subsidy from the national government during the early years of project execution,
justified by the serious state of neglect and disrepair that characterizes the system being
turned over to the local authorities; (ii) getting clarity and support for the project's
financial needs by holding discussions with a wide circle of stakeholders in the executive
and legislative branches of the national government and local governments and broad
consultation with the affected communities and agreeing on mutual obligations, formalized
in the Contract Plan;  (iii) utilizing the services of a private operator to introduce



44
efficiencies and provide tangible evidence of improved services to make the tariff
adjustments, when required, more supportable; and (iv) linking the third package of
rehabilitation investments with compliance with the agreed financial, physical and
investment targets (including the provision of sufficient counterpart funds) of the Contract
Plan (para 5.4 c).  Given the importance of adequate tariff levels, during project
preparation the residential reference tariff was increased from Bs 17.5 to Bs 40 per cubic
meter as a condition of negotiations (para 5.1 a) and submission of evidence that a
residential reference tariff increase from Bs 40 to Bs 60 per cubic meter has been
approved and implemented is a condition of effectiveness (para 5.3 b). Additionally, to
lessen the risk of a possible shortfall in counterpart funds from the national government,
the project design allows for a reduction in the investment plan for AdM, since works have
been packaged into three subcomponents that can be independently executed.
D. Willingness to Pay Studies
4.13. Two willingness to pay studies conducted during project preparation2 yielded the
following main results, which support the project justification:
*  The Maturin Study. Results from the Maturin study indicate that among the urban
population there is a high demand and willingness to pay for a water supply system
with the characteristics the project will support. Against a present average cost of the
service of US$ 1.25 per month (US$ 15 per year) per connection, the study found that
85% of respondents would use an improved water system (without improvements in
sanitation) at an average monthly cost of 1,000 Bs (US$ 5.88), 63% would use it at
4,000 Bs (US$ 23.5), and even 35% would use it at 7,000 Bs (US$ 41.2)3. The study
also found that household demand is mainly for improved water quality and
reliability; hence the project has given priority to rehabilitating the water systems
over other actions (see Annex D for further details).
*  The Rural Areas Study. Results indicate that rural residents are primarily concerned
with water quality and its impact on health.  The study predicts that 60%  of
respondents -would be willing to pay Bs 2,000 (US$ 11.76) per month and 50% would
pay 3,000 (US$ 17.6) per month for improved service providing safely potable water.
These results are significant given that rural users are currently not billed at all for their
water service.  Moreover, Fifty-six percent of respondents believe that their
community would want to run its own water system, 73% are somewhat or very
interested in serving in a water committee, and 58% think that the community would
do a better job than government in managing the water system. These results provide a
2     The studies were conducted by CVM, Inc. (USA), in association with DOXA Instituto de
Opini6n Piiblica (Venezuela), in June, July and August 1995.
The planned tariff increase from the current 40 to 60 Bs/m3 will amount to an average monthly
price of 1,800 Bs (US$ 10.60) for residential users and about half that figure for social
consumers, for an average household consumption level of 30 m3/month.



45
very favorable basis for the rural pilot program proposed under the project. (See
Annex G for further details).
E. Project Risks
4.14. The major risks for the proposed project are: (i) inability to overcome the present
weak institutional capacity; (ii) absence of payment culture which could hinder sound
commercial practices and the achievement of agreed financial targets;  (iii) possible
shortfall in counterpart funds and delays in tariff adjustments, which could be aggravated
by a worsening of the macroeconomic situation; and (iv) decreased political support. The
first two risks will be reduced by the implementation of the institutional strengthening
components of the project which will build up normative, regulatory and technical capacity
and take advantage of private sector involvement through a management contract. The
third risk has been greatly reduced by the recent agreement with the IMF and is mitigated
by the strong commitment of national and local government authorities to the
decentralization process and to the concept of financial sustainability in general and to the
project in particular, as evidenced by budgetary allocations made for this project under the
Ley Paraguas (despite stiff public expenditure cuts), the agreed obligations of the state
government and the municipalities under the Contract Plan, including the tariff increase
adopted during project preparation and the tariff increase to be adopted before loan
effectiveness, and a financing plan that seeks to reduce dependency from national budget
support early in project implementation. The fourth risk is being minimized and managed
through: (i) the Bank's ongoing discussions with a wide circle of stakeholders in the
executive and legislative branches of central government and at the local government
level; and (ii) broad consultation with the affected communities and NGO involvement in
project preparation.  The third and fourth risks will also be reduced by expected
constituent demands on the authorities to address the problem of the physical supply
infrastructure, which is near a state of collapse, and by the grouping of the works to be
financed under the project into three rehabilitation packages that can be independently
carried out, linked to the achievement of financial and operation conditions. The project
assumptions, risk ratings and minimization measures are summarized in the following risk
matrix.



46
Table 4.2. Project Risk Matrix
Assumption            Risk Rating'                    Risk Minimization Measres
Overall Risk Rating              Medium
1. The macroeconomic            Medium        .  Recent macroeconomic actions and agreement with the IMF on
situation will remain stable or                   a stabilization program should improve Venezuelan fiscal and
improve and budget crisis will                    macro-management
be averted                                    .  Strong support to project objectives, enhanced decentralization,
reduced dependence on national government support and
adequate tariff adjustments would help offset the impact of an
eventual worsening of the macroeconomic situation
2. Counterpart funds will be      High        *  Federal counterpart funds have been reduced to 10% of total
available in a timely manner                      project costs
Declining disbursement percentages have been included to
provide higher levels of Bank financing in the early years of
project implementation until AdM's revenue generation
capacity is improved in the later years
3. Political support will be      Low         .  During project preparation, an extensive consultative process
maintained throughout the                         helped to build consensus among all stakeholders; newly
project lifc                                      elected state and municipal authorities (in office since January
1996 for at least three years, with possibility of re-election)
have expressed strong commitment to the objectives and means
of the project, in line with their predecessors, while national
authorities have maintained their full and active support
4. Institutional capacity will    Low         *  Institutional strengthening components of the project will build
be strengthened                                   up the normative, regulatory and technical capacity of public
entities involved
-  The management contract with a private operator will
introduce sound management practices
5. Tariff levels will be        Medium        .  Tariff levels have been adjusted twice before loan approval
adjusted in a timely manner                   *  Tariff increases are clearly defined in the Contract Plan in line
with the present adjustment formula
*  Investments are divided into packages with investments for the
last two years tied to satisfactory compliance with mid-term
targets
6. Payment culture will be        Low         *  Willingness-to-pay studies conducted during project
improved, and                                     preparation show that users would pay substantially more if
billing/collection and                            service is improved
unaccounted-for-water                         *  Commercial practices will be carried out under the
efficiency will increase                          management of AdM by a private operator
'Likelihood that critical assumption will not be valid



47
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1.  The following conditions were met before negotiations:
(a)   submission of evidence that the residential reference tariff increase from Bs
17.5 to Bs 40 per cubic meter has been approved and implemented (para
2.13 and 4.12);
(b)   submission of a plan satisfactory to the Bank for the provision of working
capital for AdM (para 4.9);
(c)   confirmation of the request to the Finance Commission of the National
Congress to include AdM as co-executor of the project, together with
HIDROVEN, in the Umbrella Law (Ley Paraguas) 1996 (para 3.22);
(d)   submission of signed copies satisfactory to the Bank of the agreements and
contracts that confer and regulate AdM's right to operate the services
(Ratification Agreements by municipalities, Comodatum Agreement among
AdM and the MARNR, Service Contracts between the municipalities and
AdM, and Service Transfer Agreement between AdM and
HIDROCARIBE) (para 3.15);
(e)   submission of draft copies of the Contract Plan, Subsidiary Agreement
among the MF, AdM and HIDROVEN and of the Trust Fund Operating
Agreement (para 3.15 and 3.18);
(f)   submission of evidence that AdM has issued the letter of invitation for the
Management Contract bid (para 3.21);
(g)   submission of a draft operating manual for the Rural Rehabilitation and
Participatory Management Program (PROPAMAR) (para. 3.25); and
(h)   submission of terms of reference for consultants to assist HIDROVEN in
the execution of the national institutional component and the overall
project coordination (para 3.10 d).
5.2.  During negotiations agreement were confirmed or reached on the following:
(a)   content of the Contract Plan, particularly financial, physical and investment
monitoring indicators and targets (para 3.16);
(b)   selection and grouping of investments in urban areas into three
rehabilitation packages consisting of: (i) emergency works; (ii) priority



48
rehabilitation works for the first two years, to be conditioned on the signing
of the management contract with the private operator; and (iii) works for
the improvement of service quality, to be conditioned on the achievement
of Contract Plan targets (para 3.9 b);
(c)   project's implementation plan (para 3.29);
(d)   submission to the Bank of a reform proposal and implementation plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the creation of the Users' Hydrographic
Confederation by July 31, 1997, and implementation of such a plan in
accordance with the agreed terms (para 3.10 a);
(e)   onlending conditions for the subsidiary loan to AdM and conditions for the
grant transfer of loan proceeds to AdM for the PROPAMAR, and to
HIDROVEN for the national institutional component (para 3.23);
(f)   content and conditions of the Trust Fund Operating Agreement (para
3.23);
(g)   project's procurement, disbursement, accounting, financial monitoring and
auditing arrangements (para 3.38);
(h)   timetable for preparing and submitting to the Bank audited project
accounts and financial statements (para 3.27);
(i)   timing and content of the project's annual and mid-term reviews to assess
the achievement of project objectives, performance targets and semiannual
progress reports (para 3.29);
(j)   financial performance covenants for AdM and the debt service coverage to
limit additional indebtedness of AdM (para 4.6);
(k)   the project management and monitoring capacity to be retained in
HIDROVEN and AdM (para 3.10 d); and
(1)   the inclusion in the Legal Agreement, as events of default, of: (i) failure of
the IDB loan agreement in becoming effective by one year after
effectiveness of the Bank loan; and (ii) standard cross-default with the IDB
legal agreement (para 3.13).
5.3.  The following will be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a)   submission of the Contract Plan signed by AdM, the state of Monagas
government and the municipalities in the state of Monagas which have



49
authorized to operate under a signed service contract (this includes all
municipalities, except Cedehio) (para 3.15 and 3.18);
(b)   submission of evidence that the residential reference tariff increase from Bs
40 to Bs 60 per cubic meter has been approved and implemented (para
2.13 and 4.12); and
(c)   adoption by AdM and HIDROVEN of accounting and financial monitoring
procedures satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.28).
5.4.   The following will be conditions of disbursement:
(a)   disbursement for urban rehabilitation investments in Cedenio or any new
municipality, conditioned on the signature of the Contract Plan by such
municipality (para. 3.18 and 3.24);
(b)   disbursement of funds for the second rehabilitation package conditioned on
the signature and effectiveness of the Management Contract (para. 3.21 and
3.24);
(c)   disbursement of funds for the third rehabilitation package conditioned on
compliance with the first year targets incorporated in the Contract Plan and
a determination by the Bank, based on satisfactory projections, that AdM
will meet the targets for the current year (para. 3.24);
(d)   disbursement of funds  for the  rural rehabilitation  subcomponent
conditioned on:  (i) the signature of the contract with an NGO  or
consultant to manage the PROPAMAR; (ii) approval of the operating
manual for the PROPAMAR satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) initial
capitalization of the trust fund (para. 3.25 and annex G para  1I); and
(e)   disbursement for the national institutional component conditioned on
HIDROVEN contracting and retaining, as part of its project
implementation unit, consultants in the areas of financial analysis,
procurement, sanitary engineering, social communications and legal (para.
3.10 d).
5.5.  With the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$
39 million to the Government of Venezuela. The loan would be a Single Currency Loan,
with repayment over 17 years, including five years of grace at the standard variable
interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar.  After negotiations the Government of
Venezuela selected this type of loan, with five years of grace, as part of its strategy to
reduce the risk in the debt portfolio and to limit the interest rate differential between this
loan and the subsidiary loan between the national government and AdM for the regional
component.






Annex A
Page 1 of3
VENEZUELA
WATER AND SEWERAGE DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
Policy Letter
The letter from the Minister of the Environment and Non-Renewable Resources to the
Bank, outlining the Government's policy for the WS&S sector, is included below.
AO-U-'UCA DE VENEZUELA
0 1 U I U1994
El Ministro del Ambient*
y de lo. Recursos
Natural*& Renovebles
'. P.69
SR. LEWIS PRESTON
Presidente del Banco Intemacional de
Reconstrucci6n y Fomento.
1851 H Street, NW
Washington,DC
USA.
Estimado Sefior Preston:
Me complace saludarle con ocasi6n de hacer referencia a la uiltima misi6n adelantada entre
el Banco y autoridades venezolanas del sector agua potable y saneamiento, donde se discuneron
posibles altemativas para un cr6dito a traves de su Instituci6n.
Sobre este particular, considero de especial importancia ratificarle el inter6s del pais en
continuar con estas negociaciones. toda vez que la situaci6n de deterioro en nuestros sistemas
amerita de mejoras sustanciales tanto a nivel fisico como institucional, y obviamente de recursos
de inversi6n.
Como es de su conocimiento, desde 1990 el Estado Venezolano ha venido realizando
esfuerzos para lograr la reestructuraci6n de los servicios, a fin de que los mismos sean trasferidos
a los gobiemos locales y logren autofinanciar en una primera etapa los costos de operaci6n y
mantenimiento. Sin embargo,. los problemas de indole financiero y politico que han acosado a
nuestro pais en los ultimos afios no han permitido que el proceso cumpla todas sus metas.
No obstante, hemos tenido logros importantes por cuanto fue suprimida la gesti6n
centralizada del servicio, al liquidarse el Instituto Nacional de Obras Sanitarias (INOS) y crearse
diez Empresas Hidrol6gicas Regionales con funciones operativas y autonomia financiera, y una
empresa matriz Hidroven, con caricter de Compafiia An6nima, con funciones de planificaci6n
y regulaci6n. En el area comercial, a partir de la creaci6n de las Empresas Hidrol6gicas
Regionales y hasta el presente ailo la recaudaci6n se increment6 en un 580%, y se logr6
aumentar el precio de venta promedio del metro cubico de agua de 2.22 Bs. a 18,11 Bs. Con
relaci6n al numero de empleados por conexi6n se pas6 de 9,84 empleados por 1000 conexiones
en 1991 a 6,15 en 1994, incluyendo este ultimo valor los empleados directos e indirectos de las
Empresas Hidrol6gicas.
Por otra-pirte, las reiteradas crisis del servicio, aunadas a los problemas fiscales del pais,
han llevado al Ejecutivo a darle una mayor importancia al problema del suministro de agua



Annex A
Page 2 of 3
PE.-J8UCA DE VENEZUELA
El Ministro del Ambiente
y de los RecursoS
Naturales Penovables
potable y saneamiento, por lo cual se elabor6 un Programa de Ajuste Sectorial para los pr6ximos
cinco anios, enmarcado dentro del Plan de Estabilizaci6n y Recuperaci6n Econ6mica Nacional.
En dicho Programa se establecen los elementos basicos de la politica del sector, que son:
- Siguiendo los lineamientos generales de Reforma del Estado, se profundiza el proceso de
descentralizaci6n del servicio, tomando las medidas necesarias para que el mismo sea prestado,
una vez transferido a los gobiemos locales, en condiciones de calidad y eficiencia. Esto permitira
consolidar estructuralmente las instituciones del sector, por cuanto se definen los roles de cada
uno de los niveles de gobierno participantes. Asi , el nivel central se especializa en sus
funciones reguladoras y de asistencia tecnica al sector, los gobiemos estadales participan en el
financiamiento de inversiones y en la cogesti6n del servicio y los gobiernos locales asumen la
gesti6n, bien directamente 6 a traves de empresas operadoras locales donde se promueve la
participaci6n del sector privado.
Todo lo anterior requiere obviamente de un marco regulador que se establecera en una
Ley para la prestaci6n del servicio, y la cual, entre otros aspectos, dara caracter legal a un ente
regulador nacional con potestad normativa, autonomia de gesti6n y con capacidad de intervenir
y sancionar a los fines de ejercer la fiscalizaci6n del servicio. Este nuevo marco regulador
tambien debera establecer en forma clara f6rmulas de estimulo para la participaci6n privada.
- Otra politica fundamental es el ordenamiento en la captaci6n y uso de los recursos
rinancieros para el sector, lo cual implica entre otras cosas lograr elevar la participaci6n de las
inversiones sectoriales de un 0,05% para 1994 a un 4% de la inversi6n publica nacional, a
traves de la participaci6n de los municipios, gobiernos estadales, sector puiblico y privado. Estos
recursos deberan fundamentalmente atender la rehabilitaci6n de los sistemas, tanto fisica como
institucional y aumentar la cobertura del servicio.
En cuanto al regimen tarifario que se aplique al servicio, el mismo debera permitir la
suficiencia financiera de los entes operadores, garantizando la recuperaci6n de los gastos de
operaci6n y mantenimiento y de las nuevas inversiones, estableciendo precios que reflejen
eficiencia, suficiencia financ.;ra y equidad. La aplicaci6n del regimen tarifario lleva implicitas
dos acciones fundamentales: por una parte un mejoramiento de los aspectos comerciales (catastro,
medicion, facturaci6n y cobranza) y por otro lado la aplicaci6n de un programa de reducci6n de
gastos orientado fundamentalmente a racionalizar el consumo de energia electrica y de sustancias
quimicas.
En aquellos casos donde se requieran subsidios, estos deberan ser directos y explicitos
al usuario, para lo cual se debera contar con el apoyo de los municipios a fin de implantar estos



Annex A
Page 3 of 3
PEP,PUCA DE VENEZUELA
El Ministro de( Ambiente
y de los Recursos
Noturoles Renovobles
sistemas en forma eficiente.
- El sector debe actuar en forma efectiva para fortalecer la capacidad institucional de las
empresas operadoras, buscando elevar la eficiencia, eficacia y calidad del servicio. Esto
implica fortalecer las areas operativas, comercial, administrativas y de recursos humanos, a
traves del establecimiento de planes y programas de desarrollo institucional de las empresas, que
garanticen la viabilidad de las mismas y el mejoramiento continuo en la prestaci6n del servicio.
Un apoyo fundamental al desarrollo de esta politica lo constituyen los programas de
capacitaci6n y actualizaci6n tecnol6gica , que deben en forma permanente complementar las
actividades de desarrollo institucional.
En general, un elemento esencial para el desarrollo de las politicas planteadas, seri la
estrecha co6rdinaci6n que debera mantenerse entre los entes involucrados, ya que el avance del
proceso requiere de acciones concertadas.
Agradeciendole la atenci6n a la presente y la colaboraci6n que pueda brindarnos en la
agilizaci6n de las gestiones crediticias que se adelantan con su Instituci6n, reciba un cordial
saludo.
Atentamente,
Roberto P&rez Lecuna
.n






Annex B
Page 1 of 6
VENEZUELA
WATER AND SEWERAGE DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
Lessons Learned from Past Bank Experiences in the Water Sector
Introduction
1.    Until now, Bank involvement in the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector in
Venezuela has been limited, although Bank lending for the sector in the LAC region
reached $439 million in FY 1993. Those commitments have been heavily concentrated:
Brazil accounts for 47% of commitments, Mexico for 18% and Colombia for 15 percent.
Until recently, WS&S was viewed as a "social sector," with primary emphasis placed on
management from the central government and investments in expanding coverage rather
than assuring cost-recovery. Now many Latin American countries are moving towards
decentralization of services to regional and local authorities and increased attention to
rehabilitation and improved maintenance. This is a response to excessive drains on central
government resources, and a recognition that the quality and efficiency of services can
improve as management is brought closer to consumer demands at the local levels and
maintenance is properly done. Such decentralization efforts have also provided propitious
grounds for participation of the private sector in service operation and maintenance
(management contracts), and in some cases, investment (through long term concession
arrangements). The Venezuela Water and Sewerage Decentralization project for the state
of Monagas fully embodies the Bank's new policies for the WS&S sector, as well as the
Latin American movement towards decentralization and innovative approaches to water
resources management. Lessons learned from past WS&S operations in Argentina, Chile,
Brazil and other countries have helped to refine the design of this project, and are
presented below.
Fostering Financial Autonomy in a Regional/Local Water Agency: The Chile
Example
2.    Several experiences show that decentralization to a local or regional water agency
offers few advantages if the dependence on central govermment budgets for a large share
of investment needs and/or operation and maintenance costs is maintained. Such financial
dependence offers a disincentive for regional/local agencies to operate efficiently and
reduce costs. Political pressures that prevent the application of a tariff policy also hurt the
utility's ability to provide reliable service and appropriate coverage, often at the expense
of the poor who are left unconnected. They in tum must resort to altemative strategies
that often prove much costlier than would a simple connection to the network with an
enforced monthly tariff



Annex B
Page 2 of 6
3.    In Chile, the water supply sector benefits from a strong adherence to the principles
of cost-recovery with full marginal cost pricing. Financially independent regional water
companies receive no central government transfers, and must generate the resources
necessary to finance new investments. The government acts as a regulator through the
Superintendencia de Servicios Sanitarios, which approves tariff levels proposed by
agencies. This regulatory framework is neutral, and public and private water companies
must meet the same quality and efficiency requirements. As a result, both quality and
coverage of water services are high in that country, while central government resources
are not drained. The proposed project for Monagas places strong emphasis on helping the
new decentralized water agency, Aguas de Monagas, achieve financial self-sufficiency
through improved cost-recovery policies and an appropriate regulatory framework for
tariff-setting and efficiency monitoring.
Private Sector Participation: The Buenos Aires and Caracas Experiences
4.    Private sector participation in the management of water and sanitation services is
increasingly seen as a desirable alternative to weighty and inefficient public management.
The latter typically depends on central government transfers to finance its operations as it
is unable to gather the political will to enforce water tariffs. Publicly managed utilities are
often overstaffed, and cash-flow problems translate into poor service and deteriorating
infrastructure. Contracts with efficient private enterprises appropriately regulated by the
public sector provide a solution to the problems of deficient and deficitary service and
deterioration of assets.
5.    Recently, the Bank has supported efforts to transfer the operation, maintenance,
and investment responsibilities for WS&S services in Caracas and Buenos Aires to private
enterprises.  In a 25-30 years concession arrangements, the concessionaire enterprise
would assume all commercial and most financial risks, while fixed assets would remain
owned by the government.
6.    The two experiences have widely differed. In Caracas, the bid failed due to several
factors: i) a lack of political commitment and of good working relationships among the
municipalities of the Caracas metropolitan area impeded the successful regulation of the
contract, and implementation of the concession; ii) existing tariffs were well beneath the
level necessary to cover operating costs, and yet strong public demonstrations taking place
at the time against gasoline price increases made it difficult for the authorities to raise
water tariffs; iii) the negotiations process allowed little flexibility once the contract would
be awarded; iv) information on the system's commercial performance, the condition of
the assets and requirements for rehabilitation and investment was scant, and no significant
effort was made to upgrade it before the bid; and v) under the Venezuelan law, investors
are not protected against exchange rate changes.
7.    By contrast, the Buenos Aires concessioning experience has been relatively
successful, although it is too early to judge its operational and financial results. Argentina



Annex B
Page 3 of 6
had several advantages over Venezuela: i) the average tariff in that city already covered
operational and maintenance costs, which enabled bidders to offer even lower rates rather
than have to confront the political difficulties of raising water rates; and ii) it benefits from
foreign exchange risk law that protects investors. Moreover, the Argentinean government
had mobilized strong political will for the project, and with World Bank support, spent
resources on preparation work to diagnose the state of the system and service, and to
identify potential investors in advance.
8.    The proposed project will involve the private sector in the management of the
service through a management contract rather than a full concession, in order to achieve a
smoother transition towards private delivery of the service. In the context of project
preparation, one of the most significant achievements of local authorities - and
demonstration of their commitment - has been the increase in tariffs from 17 Bs./m3 to 40
Bs./m3, and the planning of an additional increase to 60 Bs. before the end of the year,
which makes the management of the service much more attractive to a prospective private
operator.
Institutional Readiness for Increased Responsibilities at the Regional/local level
9.    The process of decentralization depends for its success on the adequate
preparation of the local and/or regional authorities to whom responsiblities are delegated.
In several countries, such as Argentina, Brazil and Columbia, the implementation of
decentralization plans overlooked the lack of preparation of the local entities, causing
additional difficulties in the transfer process. The above-cited case of Caracas, where local
authorities could not reach consensus on the aims to work towards, illustrates this as well.
In many cases, this can be circumvented by relying at the outset on private sector
participation rather than on local public agencies, although the Caracas example shows
that agreement on this between local leaders is crucial. Transferring responsibilities to a
weak local entity can jeopardize service quality and efficiency from the beginning, which in
turn undermines the public's trust and reduces the entity's ability to justify tariff increases
and/or firmer cost-recovery policies.  The proposed project will finance technical
assistance to the local authorities for the implementation of sector reforms and the
contracting and supervision of a private operator.
Rural Water Supply: The Colombia Example
10.   Successful projects in Colombia and Bolivia have demonstrated the usefulness of
linking community participation with project design to ensure better user responsibility for
operation and maintenance, and better satisfaction of user needs at appropriate prices.
Colombia now has the reputation of having the best rural water supply program in Latin
America, as a result of a successful program sponsored by the National Institute of Public
Health which fostered community-managed water systems. Colombia's National Institute
of Public Health provides technical assistance to communities for project design as well as
community organization for water system management, while the community raises funds



Annex B
Page 4 of 6
and provides materials, labor, transport and cash for construction, and subsequently
operates, maintains and regulates the system through its water administrative committee.
This provides a useful model for the Rural Rehabilitation and Participatory Management
Program in the Monagas Water project, which aims to involve communities in the
preparation and implementation of community-based rehabilitation and improvement
plans, and to transfer the operation and maintenance of rural water systems to community-
elected water committees.
Water Resources Management: Chile, Venezuela and Brazil Experiences
I.   The proposed project will include in its national institutional component a program
to organize the management of the region's resources at the river basin level through an
Umbrella Association of Users (Confederaci6n de Usuarios) that would convene all water
users (farmers, municipalities, private users, the state water company AdM, industrialists,
etc.), to make decisions on water allocation and pollution control in the state of Monagas.
This model has been pioneered in Germany and Spain at the beginning of the century and
in the financial aspects in France in the late 1960s. It is now being replicated with
adjustments in several Latin American countries. Management institutions of this type
have been created in Venezuela (Lago de Valencia and Rio Tuy "Autoridades Unicas de
Area") and in Brazil (Sao Paulo and Ceara states). In Chile, the allocation of the
resources is now carried out through a water market.
12.   With the exception of the water market in Chile, it is too early to assess the
experience of these new institutions in Latin America, but initial developments suggest
that they benefit from better management and increased participation of user groups in
selecting priorities and planning investments. In the case of Venezuela, the Agencias
Ulnicas de Area have improved the management of water resources in the areas under
their jurisdiction.   However, they have had difficulties in implementing a truly
decentralized management system and remain fully dependent from central government
transfers for their functioning. The Agencias represent an enduring financial burden for
the central Government, and this has highlighted the need to develop their financial self-
sufficiency through more reliable cost-recovery mechanisms.  In the context of the
proposed project, the new scheme will place emphasis on applying appropriate water
charges that will enable the Confederaci6n to achieve financial autonomy from the central
Government in the medium term.
Major Lessons Learned from Past Experiences in Bank Lending in the Sector
13.   The above examples illustrate some of the experiences that have been useful in
formulating the project concept and design. Combined with additional analysis of past
Bank operations from the OED and the 1993 World Bank Policy Paper on Water



Annex B
Page 5 of 6
Resources Management, they yield the following major lessons for this and future projects
in the sector:'
*  WS&S agencies that rely less on government involvement and more on a clear
regulatory framework to guide private/user participation in service delivery
function better. The proposed project will help in clarifying the regulatory and
involving the private sector and user groups in the management of water
services;
*  Borrowers' executing  agencies greatly  benefit from  additional training
(intersectoral management, fee structure administration) and information
dissemination to improve their ability to implement the project and monitor its
performance. The proposed project will assist in training and information
dissemination through the national institutional strengthening component;
*  Emphasis should be placed on strengthening O&M  capacities before new
investments are financed. The proposed project places strong emphasis on the
improvement in management of WS&S services and infrastructure
rehabilitation rather than expansion;
*  Emphasis on efficiency and adequate water pricing will help to address inequity
issues related to the poor's access to WS&S services. Water pricing has been
efficiently addressed during project preparation and will continue to be a
priority for the new water agency in Monagas,
*  Where possible, emphasis should be given to private pumping and small scale
systems managed by users. The proposed project will achieve this through the
Rural Rehabilitation and Participatory Management Program, which will - on
the basis of community demand - finance community-based sub-projects and
transfer the O&M and cost-recovery responsibilities to communities,
*  An enabling institutional envirornment with consensus among main political
entities is key to the successful development and implementation of a project;
sustained Bank supervision and assistance to executing agencies in complying
with Bank directives and requirements is essential to ensure the integrity of the
project concept and its satisfactory execution and. The project includes close
'References for this annex included:
1. Water Supply and Sanitation Projects: The Bank's Experience, 1967-1989, OED, June 1992.
2. Annual Review of Portfolio Performance (ARPP) FY 93, Water and Sanitation Sector, TWURD, April
1994.
3. Venezuela Strategy Paperfor the Infrastructure Sectors, LAIIN, June 1993.
4. Managing Urban Water Supply and Sanitation: Operation and Maintenance, Lessons and Practices,
November 1994, OED.
5. Arranging Concessions for Water Supply and Sewerage Services: Lessons from Buenos Aires and
Caracas, by Thelma Triche, Abel Mejia and Emanuel Idelovitch in Infrastructure Notes, May 1993,
TWURD.
6. Project completion reports for: i) the Guatemala - Water Supply rehabilitation Project (Loan 2759-
GU); ii) the Mexico - Water Supply and Sanitation Sector project (Loan 3271 - ME); and iii) the
Colombia - Fourth Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 2512 - CO).



Annex B
Page 6 of 6
Bank supervision and monitoring and sustained assistance to authorities
throughout implementation and
* A pilot approach with an execution period shorter that that usually planned is
preferable when starting anew in the sector with a borrower, in order to ensure
the borrower's capacity to prepare and implement projects before launching
into heavier operations. The proposed project is a demonstration operation for
broader sectoral reforms in Venezuela, and would be executed over four years.



Annex C
Page I of 9
VENEZUELA
WATER AND SEWERAGE DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
Regulatory Framework Arrangements
Background
1.    Although the structural adjustment reforms initiated in 1989 in Venezuela included
the restructuring of Water Supply and Sanitation (WS&S) services by abolishing INOS -
the government-owned national WS&S agency - to create regional water companies, these
services remain de facto highly centralized with a complex organizational structure.
Moreover, the regulatory framework is undeveloped and ill-defined with overlapping
statutory responsibilities among the many water-related agencies. As part of the above
reforms, in 1991, a new national institution was created for the implementation of policy
and the coordination of the sector, HIDROVEN. At the same time, ten regional water
companies (HIDROS), wholly owned subsidiaries of HIDROVEN, were established to
provide this service, as a transitory decentralized arrangement until municipal or regional
companies could be set up. However, both HIDROVEN and the HIDROS have in reality
acted as regional branches of the Central Government. Although the Municipalities hold
constitutional responsibility for water supply and sewerage, the HIDROS have operated
the services under informal concession agreements (see Figure 1). This process has
resulted in a situation where responsibilities are undertaken in an informal manner, without
legal or administrative backing, by many of the institutions involved in the sector.
2     In 1992, authorities at the state and municipal level in Monagas initiated a local
reform process to increase the efficiency of water supply and sanitation services through
further decentralization. The state's ten municipalities first formed the Mancomunidad
Monaguense de Acueductos, in an effort to better coordinate water-related initiatives.
The Mancomunidad then associated with the state government to create Aguas de
Monagas (AdM), a new company that would gradually take over the service
responsibilities from HIDROCARIBE-Monagas, the local HIDRO. Fifty-one percent of
the company's capital is owned by the Municipalities, and the remaining forty-nine is
owned by the State. Until recently, AdM was only a legally created shell with no formal
operational responsibilities. In the context of project preparation, however, the process of
transferring functions to AdM has accelerated, highlighting some legal issues that are key
to the sector's decentralization activities.
Key Legal Issues
3.    The legal issues that could represent the main constraints for project
implementation and AdM's proper functioning have been analyzed by the Government



Annex C
Page 2 of 9
with the assistance of the Bank. They include: (i) AdM's legal status; (ii) the assignment
of the responsibility for the provision of WS&S services and the production of water; (iii)
the authority and procedures for setting and adjusting tariffs; and (iv) the mechanisms to
channel funds for project implementation.
1975  to  1991                1991  to  1994                      1996  -
Central Govemment             Central Govemment                Central Goverment
c1J 
cIII~HIDROS
FIGURE 1: INSTITUTIONS IN THE WATER SECTOR
4.    The resolution of these issues has formed the basis for several contracts and
agreements between the involved institutions in order to:-  i) improve the current
undeveloped regulatory framework and clarify institutional roles; ii) allow the proper
operation of AdM;- and iii) facilitate project implementation.  The contracts and
agreements have been prepared during project preparation to define and regulate the
relationships among the Government of Venezuela, the Ministry of Environment and
Natural Renewable Resources (MARNR), HIDROCARIBE (the regional HIDRO
responsible for service provision in Monagas), the state of Monagas (Gobernacion), the
Municipalities and AdM. This set of contracts and agreements is intended to complement,
in an inter-im way, the existing regulatory framework until the more developed regulatory
framework that will result from the the project's national institutional component is in
place. At the same time, it will serve as a demonstration exercise, to test the viability and



Annex C
Page 3 of 9
requirements that should satisfy the regulatory framework under preparation. This annex
presents each of the above-mentioned issues and the resulting legal agreements that will
enable the Government to move forward with this demonstration decentralization project.
5.    AdM's Legal Status.   Neither AdM's bylaws, nor the Venezuelan legal
framework, clearly establish the type of company AdM is (private company, public
company, municipal company) and which legal code it should follow in its operation. This
is critical with respect to accounting obligations, to the possibility of receiving transfer of
funds from Central Government under the project, to the obligations it might acquire as
part of the project legal terms and to its contractual relations either with the users or
among the share-holders of the company, particularly regarding the Mancomunidad and its
role as representative of the municipalities.
6.    As a result of the legal studies carried out, it seems that the statutes of AdM and
the Mancomunidad provide that: (i) AdM could be considered a municipal company that
operates under normal commercial practices;  and (ii) the Mancomunidad could
collectively represent the municipalities as shareholders of this company and take in their
name decisions on the normal functioning. The signing of this ratification was a condition
of negotiations.
7.    Responsibility for providing the WS&S service. Although Municipalities hold
constitutional responsibility to provide WS&S services, several other institutions had been
in charge of the delivery of this service and had to be involved in the transfer of
responsibility to AdM. In order to have AdM taking over the service in an orderly and
regulated way, the current practice and the legal opinion consulted has indicated that it is
necessary that, regulated under specific contracts and agreements, provisions are
established for AdM receiving (see Figure 2):
(a)   the legal title to provide the servicefrom the Municipalities,
(b)   the right to produce potable water and use the infrastructure that belongs
to the national governmentfrom MARNR; and
(c)   the infrastructure and  responsibility to  provide the  service firom
HIDROCARIBE.
8.    A Service Contract between AdM and each municipality is the legal agreement
which will authorize AdM to provide the WS&S services. Under this service contract the
municipalities delegate to AdM in all their rights and assignments regarding the provision
of the service. This contract: (i) expressly entitles AdM to contract totally or partially the
provision of the service, with the obligation to inform the municipality; (ii) establishes that
the tariff revenue must cover operation and maintenance costs, depreciation, investment
and improvement costs, and debt service;  (iii) entitles AdM  to propose to the
municipalities the regulation of the service and establishes that the municipalities must



Annex C
Page 4 of 9
issue, according to this proposal, the needed regulation regarding the obligations and
rights of the users and those of AdM. Eight municipalities have to date signed the Service
Contract, including among them Maturin, and the two other largest ones. Submission of
signed copies of the Service Contracts satisfactory to the Bank was condition of
negotiations.
9.    In addition, a Comodatum Agreement has been reached between AdM  and
MARNR, that cedes to AdM the right to use the infrastructure for the production of
drinking water in the state of Monagas. Indeed, in order to obtain an integrated
framework where water-related responsibilities are consolidated under one institution,
both water production and service provision will be taken over by AdM. The agreement
defines the obligations and rights of both AdM and MARNR. In particular, it establishes
that: (i) MARNR agrees not to grant new concessions for the use of water in the state of
Monagas without the technical advice of AdM; (ii) that MARNR retains general control
and supervision powers on water resources management, on a transitional basis, until the
Users' Confederation is established (see Annex I, which provides a detailed description of
the proposed institutional framework for water resources management); and (iii) AdM has
the capacity to contract with third parties the operation or maintenance of the
infrastructure for the production of potable water. Submission of a signed copy of the
Comodatum Agreement satisfactory to the Bank was condition of negotiations.
10.   Finally, a Service Transfer Agreement has been signed between HIDROCARIBE
and AdM  for the transfer of responsibilities, assets and personnel.   Although
Municipalities hold constitutional responsibility for the provision of this service, it has
been de facto provided  by HIDROCARIBE; therefore this agreement regulates the
transfer of responsibility to AdM and cedes the right to use the infrastructure. This
agreement will also regulate different aspects of this transfer regarding obligations,
pending contracts, debts and assets.  Submission of the signed Service Transfer
Agreement satisfactory to the Bank was condition of negotiations.
11.   Aside from the above agreements, which give AdM the legal rights to provide
water and sanitation services and to produce water, two additional legal instruments will
be used to ensure the proper operation and delivery of service by AdM. First, to formalize
the definition of performance expectations for AdM, a Contract Plan will be signed
between AdM and its stockholders, which defines the responsibilities of each party (AdM,
state of Monagas, and the Mancomunidad) and the performance targets for AdM. The
main elements of the Contract Plan are: (i) the preservation of AdM management
autonomy; (ii) the obligation of AdM to achieve specific performance targets; and (iii) the
authorization for AdM to interrupt the provision of service in the case of non-payment.
Submission of a draft Contract Plan was condition of negotiations. As a condition of loan
effectiveness. the Contract Plan shall have been signed by AdM. the state of Monagas
government and all municipalities in the state of Monagas which have authorized to
operate under a signed service contract (this includes all municipalities, except Cedenio).



Annex C
Page 5 of 9
As condition of disbursements for urban rehabilitation investments in Cedenio or any new
municipality, such municipality shall sign the Contract Plan
12.   Second, because the main problems of HIDROCARIBE are related to poor
management practices and as a result of policy discussions on the optimal manner of
involving the private sector, it has ben decided that a Management Contract would be
established between AdM and a private operator to manage the services over a period of
four years (described in detail in Annex E). Until now billing, collections and supervision
of service contracts has been deficient. Moreover, little management capacity exists in
public sector agencies. These factors have contributed to the decision to hire a private
operator for the management of water supply and sanitation services in the state of
Monagas. The Management Contract will be awarded through an international
competition in accordance with Bank guidelines for the hiring of Consultants, and financed
under the project. The main characteristics of this contract are that: (i) it is a contract
based on management incentives, which gives the operator full responsibility for the
commercial system of AdM and for the management of the investment plan financed under
the project, (ii) it uses the performance targets corresponding to those established in the
Contract Plan between AdM and its stockholders, and (iii) it defines the compensation
system, which will consist of a fixed retainer payment, to be financed by the project, and a
variable payment and two bonuses contingent on substantial improvements superior to the
performance targets and the achievement of key management targets. These variable
payments will be financed and limited by the income those improvements generate for
AdM. As a condition of negotiations AdM has issued the letter of invitation for the
management contract bid. Signing of the management contract will be a condition of
disbursement for the second rehabilitation investment package.
13.   Tariffs Setting and Adjustment Authority.  The legal basis for water tariff
setting like many other regulatory aspects of the sector is not totally clear. According to
the Law for the Protection of Consumers, the Ministry of Development (MF) and the
MARNR seem to have the authority and responsibility to regulate WS&S tariffs. Based
on this Law, tariff levels and structures were established in 1993 by a joint decree of both
ministries, that included a procedure for the automatic adjustment of tariffs according to
changes in the basic costs of the service. Also, HIDROVEN's approval of tariff changes
have been until now necessary in the name of the MF and the MARNR before they could
be implemented by the HIDROS.
14.   To overcome the rigidity of this procedure, which could imply a risk for AdM's
financial viability, the average residential tariff reference rate has been raised to 40 Bs/m3
before project appraisal and will be raised to 60 Bs/m3 before loan effectiveness.
HIDROVEN approved these adjustments and the application of the procedure for
automatic adjustment of tariffs according to changes in the costs of the service.
Additionally, the results of the legal studies carried out during project preparation on this
subject indicate that, once the service has been taken over by AdM in the name of the
municipalities, even though tariffs must still comply with the regulations of the Ministry of



Annex C
Page 6 of 9
Finance and the- MARNR, the authority to set tariffs resides in the municipalities,
represented by the Mancomunidad because: (i) WS&S services are a constitutionally
established municipal responsibility; and (ii) WS&S tariffs are a public price and not a
"tasa"'. Submission of evidence that tariffs adjustments have been aproved and
implemented will be a condition of loan effectiveness. Satisfactory compliance with the
physical. operating and finncial targets established under the Contract Plan will be a
condition of disbursement of funds for the third package of rehabilitation investments.
MUNICIPALITIES
O-----~~ .-- <.J.. Monagas J
-\/ .-.f.:--..............    .......  .....-,,
tb1 TT0''  \               7            
s t 1 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~.........   '-.2.'0.i
FIGURe 2: ITRANSFES OFRIT...S A.N.  FUNCION
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-         -   -- - - -     - - -
FIGURIE 2: TRANSFERS OF RIGHTS AND FUNCTIONS
15.    Mechanisms for channeling loan funds. The Venezuelan authorities and the
project preparation team, with the assistance of a legal consultant, have defined
mechanisms to ensure an efficient, decentralized flow of funds from the Central
Government to AdM for the execution of the regional components of the project. Until
now any funds from the Central Government were channeled through HIDROVEN to the
HIDROS. Under the new institutional framework, and to effect decentralization, AdM
' Charge imposed by a public entity for the delivery of a service that is compulsorily given and taken by
the individuals



Annex C
Page 7 of 9
will receive loan funds directly from the Central Bank. It was agreed that starting in 1996,
the Ministry of Environment will give payment orders to channel funds directly from the
Central Bank to AdM for the components it will execute. HIDROVEN, as executor of
the national institutional component, will also receive funds from the Central Bank upon
order of the Ministry of Environment.
16.   As a result, two specific agreements between AdM, the Ministry of Finance and
HIDROVEN for defining responsibilities among involved institutions and regulating the
transfer of funds will be signed: (i) the Subsidiary Agreement between the national
government (through the Ministry of Finance and MARNR), HIDROVEN and AdM to
(a) transfer loan proceeds, on a reimbursable basis, to AdM for the institutional
development of AdM and the three rehabilitation packages for urban areas under the
regional component, (b) transfer loan proceeds, on a grant basis, to AdM for the rural
rehabilitation subcomponent, and (c) transfer loan proceeds, on a grant basis, to
HIDROVEN for the national institutional component; and (ii) the Trust Fund Operating
Agreement among AdM and a Fiduciary Bank, for delineating the terms and conditions
under which the Fiduciary Bank shall administer all funds to be provided for the financing
of the regional component. The Trust Fund Operating Agreement will clearly delineate
the responsibilities of AdM, the state government, the Municipalities, and the Ministries of
Finance and MARNR, use of funds, financial contributions, corresponding schedule and
terms and conditions under which the Fiduciary Bank shall administer such financial
contributions.  Submission of a draft Trust Fund Operating Agreement and draft
Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreements satisfactory to the Bank were condition of
negotiations. Submission to the Bank of signed copies of these Agreements will be a
condition of effectiveness.
Summary and conclusion
17.   The contracts and agreements that have resulted from the resolution of the legal
issues derived from the decentralization and project preparation process can hence be
grouped in two types: (i) those that regulate the operation of AdM, and (ii) those regulate
the implementation of the project.
18.   To regulate the operation of AdM five contracts and agreements will be or have
been signed by AdM (see Figure 3):
(a)   The Service Transfer Agreement between HIDROCARIBE and AdM for
the transfer of responsibilities, assets and personnel;
(b)   the Comodatum Agreement between AdM  and MARNR that cedes to
AdM the right to use the infrastructure for the production of drinking
water in the State of Monagas;



Annex C
Page 8 of 9
(c)   the Service Contract between AdM  and the Municipalities authorizing
AdM to provide the WS&S services;
(d)   the Contract Plan between AdM and its stockholders (state of Monagas
and the Mancomunidad) to define the responsibilities of each party and the
performance targets for AdM,
(e)   the Management Contract between AdM and a private operator to manage
the services over a period of four years, and
(f)    a Ratification Agreement of the municipalities to harmonize these
documents and correct some inconsistencies and lack of definition detected
in the Mancomunidad and AdM's statutes.
~~MAN
|HIDROCARIBEr               2
-   l     \                3 j ES~~~~~TADO MNAGAS 
1 .Agrcement of transfer of    gua de Mona               MACOUNDA
rcsponsibility                       _   _L                i  ,
2. Comodatum Agreement for
watcr production                             I \    \
3. Contract-Plan.           | RVATE OPERAT7OR  |\t
4.  SCTvice CoTntract                                             =
5. Managcmerit Contract                       Wt
SERVIC                   M UNICIPALITIES
FIGURE 3: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
19.   To regulate project implementation, the following agreements are being
prepared and will be signed before effectiveness:
(a)   the Subsidiary Agreement between the national government (through the
Ministry of Finance and MARNR), HIDROVEN and AdM to (a) transfer
loan proceeds, on a reimbursable basis, to AdM for the institutional
development of AdM and the three rehabilitation packages for urban areas
under the regional component; (b) transfer loan proceeds, on a grant basis,
to AdM for the rural rehabilitation subcomponent; and (c) transfer loan
proceeds, on a grant basis, to HIDROVEN for the national institutional
component; and



Annex C
Page 9 of 9
(b)   a Trust Fund Operating Agreement for delineating the responsibilities of
AdM, the state government, the Municipalities, and the Ministry of Finance
for transfers of funds for the regional component.
20.   The legal agreements presented above will enable the project to go forward now,
taking advantage of the strong motivation existing among officials at the central and local
government levels. Since these agreement have been developed in coordination with the
analyses currently under way to develop a new regulatory framework for the sector in
Venezuela, they are not likely to be upset by the implementation of the reformed
framework.






Annex D
Page I of 13
VENEZUELA
WATER AND SEWERAGE DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
Willingness to pay for improved Water and Sanitation Services
Introduction: Rationale for a Willingness-to-pay Study
I.    The provision of water supply and sanitation (WS&S) services in Venezuela is largely
subsidized by the central government, which until now has born the increasing weight of the
investment and operating costs of the W&S service without making any major attempts at cost-
recovery. Under the decentralization approach to be tested in Monagas, a local authority will take
over the responsibility for service provision, setting tariffs and carrying out billing and collection.
The major challenge for the newly formed water company, Aguas de Monagas (AdM), will be to
align historically low tariffs with the trus cost of service and to become a financially self-sufficient
utility.
2.    In order to meet this challenge, and to define acceptable service tariffs, it is important to
predict user willingness-to-pay and its determinants.  This annex describes the household
willingness to pay (WTP) study that was performed in Maturin, the capital city of the State of
Monagas, during the period of June 2-30, 1995, in preparation for the transfer of facilities to AdM
and the improvement of Maturin's water and sewer systems. This study has proven essential to i)
establish support among local policy-makers for a more rigorous approach to WS&S services
management that relies on user contribution; ii) confirm the emphasis of project design on water
supply infrastructure improvement and rehabillitation; and iii) ratify tariff increase
recommendations resulting from the financial analyses carried out during project preparation. The
study also sheds much needed light on customer concerns over current service, and preferences
and priorities for the future improvements to the system, thereby providing policy-makers and the
project preparation team with a clear sense of priorities to be addressed.
Summary and Conclusions'
3.    In summary, results indicate that 85% of respondents would use an improved water supply
system (without improvements in sanitation) at an average monthly price of 1,000 Bs (US$ 5.88),
63% would use it at an average monthly price of 4,000 Bs. (US$23.5), and only 35% would use it
at an average monthly price of 7,000 Bs. (US$41). The study found that the variables which are
most statistically significant to explain willingness-to-pay results are price, income, and education.
The level of satisfaction with current level of service and the gender of the respondent were not
statistically significant variables. Given the demand probabilities derived from the study to project
revenues from water billing, an average monthly price of 5,000 Bs. constitutes a threshold beyond
which expected revenues would decrease.
' This and subsequent sections are adapted from the preliminary and draft final reports submitted by Donald T.
Lauria, Jennifer Davis and Elizabeth Mclelland from CVM, Inc. a U.S. firm which carried out the study herein
described with DOXA, a Venezuelan firm specializing in public opinion surveys.



Annex D
Page 2 of 13
4.     Three observations are in order. The first is that demand for improved water supply in
Maturin is quite high; for example, about 70% of the households are willing to pay about US$200
per year. In the face of such demand, a strong case cannot be made for external subsidies. The
second observation is that this high demand is for the type of improved system described to
respondents in the questionnaire, i.e., a system similar to those in Europe and North America. If
such a system cannot be created, it is unlikely that the demand reported herein would exist for an
alternative system with lower quality.
5.     Finally, household demand is mainly for improved water quality and reliability; hence, if
the investment criterion is to satisfy existing consumer preferences, then upgrading the water
system should take priority over wastewater removal and treatment. The fact that water quality is
viewed as a greater priority than is the quantity of water provided should not be interpreted to
mean that construction of water treatment facilities should take priority over rehabilitating the
water distribution network. The single most important step toward improving water quality may
be to ensure the reliable distribution of water 24 hours per day under positive network pressure.
6.     To conclude, the study achieved three important objectives: (i) it provided input on the
views and preferences of service users to policy-makers at the local and national level in
Venezuela as well as to the Bank, and this input proved essential in the context of stakeholder
workshops held during project preparation; (ii) by showing user preferences and levels of
satisfaction with the existing service, the study confirmed the appropriateness of the project
emphasis on water supply infrastructure rehabilitation to improve the quality of water and service;
and (iii) by yielding high WTP figures for average monthly prices of 2,000 Bs. and above, the
study showed the financial viability of the project, indeed, the planned tariff increase from the
current 40 to 60 Bs./m3 will amount to an average monthly price of 1,800 Bs. (US$ 10.60)2.
Methodology
7.     Focus Groups and Questionnaire Design. As a first step for the questionnaire design,
three focus group meetings' were held, each with ten to twenty participants from different
neighborhoods corresponding to different socioeconomic backgrounds in the city. Discussions
aimed to collect preliminary information from water and sanitation users on service quality and
level of satisfaction with the service, alternative water supply sources (e.g. private back-up
arrangements), billing and collection procedures, and amounts spent by households on water and
other public services. Participants were also given an opportunity to react to the proposed
institutional and service changes planned under the project, and to trial prices for tariffs to be
charged under the improved scheme. The information resulting from focus group discussion was
used to develop a first draft of the household questionnaire.  In addition, the focus group
discussions comprised a valuable participatory tool to elicit preliminary information on user
preferences, level of satisfaction and willingness-to-pay, which was essential for the discussions
with stakeholders and policy-makers held during project preparation.
2 Using an average household consumption level of 30m3/month.
3 The focus group discussions were facilitated by Donald Lauria (CVM), Isabelle Fauconnier (the World Bank),
and Isbelia de Malave (Doxa).



Annex D
Page 3 of 13
8.    The questionnaire includes five sections: i) general questions about the household's
characteristics;  ii) priorities and preferences of the respondent (list includes transportation,
schooling, water supply and sanitation, marginal areas); iii) current water supply and sanitation
service and practices, iv) willingness to pay questions; and v) socio-economic information about
the respondent's household (e.g., levels of education, occupation, characteristics of the dwelling,
income and assets, expenditures and utility bills).
9.     The WTP questions presented institutional and service improvement scenarios as a basis
for contingent valuation questions inquiring aboutfavoring the scenarios if average monthly cost
to the household was X, and using the improved system at that cost. As a checking mechanism,
the questionnaire also included an open-ended question asking households what would be the
maximuim they would be willing to pay for the improved system. The questionnaire versions
included two different willingness-to-pay scenarios, one that describes improvements only to the
water supply system ("Water Only") and the other that describes improvements to both the water
and sanitation systems ("Water and Sanitation"). The scenario versions, along with the average
monthly bill amounts of 2,000 Bs. (US$11.7), 4,000 Bs. (US$23.4), 7,000 Bs. (US$41.1), or
10,000 Bs. (US$58.8)4, were randomly assigned to respondents. The willingness-to-pay section
is described in detail in paras. 18 to 31.
10.   Sample Design.  Aguas de Monagas and HIDROCARIBE provided their recently
updated city consumer data-base and cadaster, including rough information on socioeconomic
class. This provided a sound basis from which to draw a random sample of 600 households, for a
target figure of usable surveys of approximately 420 after data entry and quality control, a figure
considered robust given the number of questionnaire versions (8).  The sample included
households ranging from upper-class, fully serviced neighborhoods to unserviced marginal areas
and all levels of service in between.
11.   Enumerator training and Pre-testing.  Enumerators hired locally by DOXA were
trained in Contingent Valuation Household Survey methods during three days in Maturin.
Training included mock interviews with the study directors and field training during the
questionnaire pretesting.  Training sessions also were used to improve the organization and
language of the questionnaire. The pretest included approximately 150 households. Only a single
version of the questionnaire with two different prices (2,000 Bs. and 5,000 Bs.) was used. The
pretest provided the final range of average monthly bill amounts to be used in the survey: 2,000
Bs. to 10,000 Bs.
t US$ 1=170 Bolivars



Annex D
Page 4 of 13
Findings
12.   Household Characteristics. Households have an average size of 5.4 persons. Most
households have 2 adults, one of whom works outside the home for pay. The median level of
education is the same for both the head of the house and the spouse: completion of primary
school and some secondary schooling.
All the houses surveyed have electricity and all purchase bottled gas; about half have telephones.
The median monthly payments for light, gas, and telephone are 2,000, 340, and 3,500 Bs.,
respectively. Forty percent of the households have a car, and more than 90% own both a TV and
refrigerator. Average monthly income per household is 62,500 Bs. (US$ 370), and the median
income is 50,000 Bs. (US$ 300). Self-reported incomes spanned a wide range from 6,000 to
400,000 Bs. Income distribution is detailed in table I below.
Table 1: Income categories of sample households
Category              Monthly income (Bs.)          % of households
Low                      < 25,000                       16
Lower middle              26,000 - 50,000                  40
Upper middle               51,000-95,000                   27
High                     > 95,000                       16
13.   Water Supply. In the dry (summer) season, the average number of hours that water
arrives at homes each day is 16; the median is 18 hours. In summer, about half of the households
have water 24 hours per day, and 80% have it for at least 6 hours per day. In the rainy (winter)
season, houses have water from the piped system 22 hours per day on average; 86% have it 24
hours per day; and 95% have it at least 6 hours per day. These data therefore indicate a relatively
high level of water supply from the piped network in comparison with other developing countries.
However, water quality is generally deemed low. The percentages of households rating water
quality as Good, Fair, or Poor during the rainy and dry seasons are as follows:
Table 2: Respondents' perception of water quality
Quality    Rainy Season     Dry Season
Good          16%             22%
Fair         55%             64%
Poor         29%              15%
In the dry season, 30% of households drink water directly from the tap; in the rainy season this
proportion drops to 25%. Hence, water quantity is better in the rainy season than in the dry, but
water quality is better in the dry than in the rainy season. Of the households that do not drink
water directly from the tap, two thirds purify it using a filter, 24% boil it, and the remainder use
both filters and boiling.
14.   Eighty-three percent of the households obtain most of their water from the piped system in
the dry season, and 92% get most of their water from the piped system in the rainy season. Some



Annex D
Page 5 of 13
households get water from tanker trucks and a few obtain it from neighbors. About 30% of
households buy bottled water at least occasionally; about 60% of these use it only for drinking
and the rest for both drinking and cooking. About 40% of households periodically give water to
their neighbors, but do not charge for the water. Virtually no one in the sample reported using a
public standpost or a private well.
15.   Sixty-three percent of the households with a water connection reported receiving a bill
from Hidrocaribe (25% every month, 55% every two months, and 19% once in a while). Most
(58%) said they check their bill for accuracy. Sixty percent of Households reported that they
always paid their water bill, 14% said almost always, 16% said sometimes, and 9% said never. If
true, these responses imply that slightly over one-third of all households in Maturin pay a water
bill. The median payment for the past six months was reported to be 3,000 Bs. (i.e., 500 Bs. per
month), and the average payment was 3,600 Bs. (i.e., 600 Bs. per month). The top ten percent of
households paying the largest bills contributed slightly more revenue than the 50% of households
that paid the median amount or less.
16.   Sanitation. Ninety-three percent of the respondents have a toilet and nearly half have
more than one. Sixty-eight percent of the households are connected to a piped sewer. In the dry
season, 96% of these said that their sewer almost always works well; in the rainy season, this
proportion is 93%. No households are charged for sewerage.
17.   Satisfaction, Priorities and Attitudes. Respondents were asked about satisfaction with
both their water and sanitation systems.  The percentages of households that were "Very
satisfied," "Somewhat satisfied," and "Not satisfied" were as follows:
Table 3: Respondents' satisfaction with current water supply and sanitation services
Satisfaction level         Water supply          Sanitation service
Very satisfied            20%                     53%
Somewhat satisfied           59%                     29%
Not satisfied             21%                     18%
18.   Clearly, households are much more satisfied with their sanitation service than with their
water supply. When given a list of six problems facing Maturin (3 environmental and 3 non-
environmental), improving the water supply was selected by 46% of respondents as the most
important issue to resolve. Twenty-three percent selected sanitation as the top priority, and 11%
selected improvement of solid waste collection. Hence, twice as many households selected
improvements in water supply as compared to sanitation service, which is consistent with the
results shown in Table 3. The three remaining problems (public transportation, education, and
upgrading squatter settlements) were each selected as the top priority by about 7% of
respondents. The list of problems was then reduced to only environmental issues (water supply,
sanitation, and solid wastes), and respondents were asked to select the top priority among them
(Table 4).



Annex D
Page 6 of 13
Table 4: Respondents' perceptions of environmental priorities
Environmental Problem         Percent of Respondents
ranking as first priority
Water supply                      55
Sanitation                       24
Solid Waste Collection                21
19.   Half the respondents think Maturin does not have a wastewater treatment plant. In fact
the city has no plant, indicating that half the residents are not well informed.  Nearly all
respondents think that Maturin sewage is contaminating the environment, is causing problems for
the city and their families, and should be treated. Two-thirds feel that household sewage and
industrial wastes are equally to blame for water pollution.
20.   Willingness to Pay. The willingness-to-pay section of each questionnaire included two
questions. The first, which followed a description of the improved service, posed a hypothetical
vote to the respondent. He or she was asked whether, as a citizen of Maturin, he/she would vote
in favor of or against the proposed improvements. The first question was:
"Suppose that a vote were taken to determine if the people of Maturin are in favor or
not in favor of this project.for improving the ("water" or "water and sanitation")
service in the city. Suppose the average cost that houses in Maturin would have to
pay were X bolivars per month (where X = 2,000, 4,000, 7, 000, or 10, 000). Would
you be in favor of this project or not?"
In the preamble to this question, respondents were told that water meters would be installed so
that payments would be based on the amount of water that households actually use. Hence, the
reference to "average cost" in the above question implies that some households would pay more
than the average and others would pay less. Because the majority of focus group participants did
not know how much water they were using, it was decided that posing willingness-to-pay
questions in terms of average monthly cost would produce more useful information than asking
about the volumetric price they would be willing to pay.
21.   A second question asked the respondent whether his or her household would use the
improved system if it cost them the same monthly price stated in the first question. Specifically, it
asked:
"Now I would like to know what you think the possibility is that you would use the
new ("water" or "water and sanitation ") service I have just described You would not
be obliged to use the new system if you do not want to. However, if you decide not to
use it, your house could not be connected to the ("water" or "water and sewer")
network, and you would have to buy water from your neighbors, or construct your
own well (or build your own septic tank).
"Now I would like to know, if this new system were installed in Maturin and the
average amount your household had to pay were approximately X bolivars per



Annex D
Page 7 ofl3
month, would you use the new system or would you arrange to use some other
system? "
The first question is referred to as "Favor," and the second is referred to as "Use." The
proportion of households that said they favored and would use the Water Only and the Water and
Sanitation improvements are shown in Table 5; a graph of the data is provided in Figure 1.
Table 5: Percent of households that would favor, use improved system
Price                     Water Only               Water and Sanitation
(Bs./month)             Favor           Use          Favor           Use
2,000                  8 1           79             8 1            70
4,000                  68            55             78             62
7,000                  57            32             57             35
10,000                 31             13            46             20
22.   These results give a general sense of community demand for the proposed improvements.
A comparison of the Water Only with the Water and Sanitation results reveals that the proportion
of respondents who would favor or use the Water and Sanitation program equal or exceed the
corresponding proportion who would favor or use the Water Only program at every price except
one. For example, at a fee of 4,000 Bs. per month, 68% favored the Water Only plan whereas
78% favored the Water and Sanitation plan. These data are logical since for a given price, a
higher percentage of respondents would be expected to want the more complete system of Water
and Sanitation than the Water Only system. In addition, the data in the "Favor" and "Use"
columns of Table 5 show that the percentages decrease as the fees increase, which is as expected.
23.   Several  regression analyses were conducted to fit probit and logit models to the
wvillingness-to-pay data. These models were of the form Y = Bo + B I X I + ... + BnXn, where the
Xs are explanatory (independent) variables, Bo is a constant, and Y is the dependent variable, a
measure of the probability that a household will favor or use the improved system. The first
analysis pooled all the responses to the Favor question for both types of systems, Water Only and
Water and Sanitation. A full model with the following nine explanatory variables was fitted to the
data:
XI = price (i.e., fee to use the system)
X2 = log of income
X3 = education of respondent
X4 = gender of respondent
Xs = number of persons in household
X6 = I if household pays its water bill; 0 otherwise
X7 = I if household is very satisfied with its water system, 2 if somewhat
satisfied; 3 if not satisfied
X8 = I if the household chose either water or sanitation as the first or
second priority problem in Maturin; 0 otherwise
Xg = I if the questionnaire included the Water Only scenario; 0 if it included the
Water and Sanitation scenario



Annex D
Page 8 of 13
In the probit analysis, monthly fee (XI), the logarithm of respondent's income (X2), respondent's
education (X3), whether the respondent paid his/her water bill (X6), and version of the
questionnaire (X9) were all found to be statistically significant, but the other variables were not.
To examine the robustness of the coefficients of the statistically significant variables to an
alternative model formulation, a reduced model with only these five variables and a constant was
refitted to the data. All five variables were statistically significant, as before, but the constant was
not. The model correctly predicted 68% of the discrete household responses. The regression
result is as follows:
Table 6: Reduced probit model for favoring an improved system
Variable     Explanation    Coefficient       t-ratio       Sigenificance Level
Constant    Intercept      -1.757            -1.45               15%
X l         Price          -0.159-3          -6.73                1%
X2          Income          0.281             2.29                2%
X3          Education       0.862-1           1.89               10%
X6          Pay bill       -0.481            -3.24                1%
Xg          Version        -0.221            -1.61               10%
24.   Education and questionnaire version are significant only at the 10% level. The negative
sign of the price coefficient indicates that as price increases, the probability that a household
favors an improved system decreases, as expected. This variable is highly significant (1% level).
The posilive sign of the income coefficient indicates that households with higher income are
more likely to favor an improved system, which is a logical result. The positive sign of the
education coefficient indicates that households whose heads have more education have higher
probability of favoring an improved system, which is as expected The negative sign of the
dummy variable for questionnaire version indicates that households are more likely to favor the
Water and Sanitation scheme than the Water Only project, other things being equal.  The
significance of this variable indicates that households were able to distinguish between the two
different systems that were described to them. It is important to keep in mind that each household
was asked about only one project, either Water Only or Water and Sanitation. Hence, the
households that were asked about the Water and Sanitation project were more favorably disposed
toward it than the households that were asked about the Water Only project.



Annex D
Page 9 of 13
Figure 1: Proportion of households that would use
improved water and sanitation, water only system
80
70
~60
o 50                                                -0-- Water and sanitation
40 -3 Water only
30
@  20
10
0o        l        l       l       l
0      2000    4000    6000    8000    10000
Monthly fee (B s./month)
25.   Similar regression analyses were made of the responses to the question about using an
improved water and water and sanitation system. All "Use" responses were pooled for both
types of systems, Water Only and Water and Sanitation. The same nine explanatory variables
were included in the probit analysis, and four of them were found to be statistically significant:
monthly fee (XI), log of income (X2), education (X3), and whether the respondent paid his/her
water bill.  A reduced model was refitted-to the data with the four statistically significant
explanatory variables and the version variable. The model correctly predicted 73% of the discrete
household responses. The regression results are presented in Table 7.
Table 7: Reduced probit model for using an improved system
Variable     Explanation     Coefficient       t-ratio       Significance Level
Constant    Intercept       -4.889            -3.79                 1%
XI          Price           -0.244-3          -9.30                 1%
X2          Income           0.567             4.34                 1%
X3          Education        0.831-1           1.77                10%
Xg          Version         -0.919-1          -0.65                 --
26.   In this model, price and income are the most significant variables that explain the demand
for using an improved system. The coefficient of education has the expected sign; better educated
households are more likely to use the system than households with lower education.



Annex D
Page 10 of 13
27.   Questionnaire version was statistically significant in the "Favor" model but not in this
model for "Use." This implies that other things being equal, the probability that a household
would connect to an improved Water and Sanitation system is no greater than the probability that
it would connect to a Water Only system.  This is probably explained by the fact that the
households could distinguish between the two systems, but they did not perceive the sanitation
component as being very important.  This is consistent with the observation that households in
Maturin are much more concerned about water supply than sanitation.
28.   The reduced model for using an improved system was refitted to the pooled Water Only
and Water and Sanitation data using logit analysis. The fitted logit model is:
y = -8.233 - 0.000403*Price + 0.953*ln(Income) + 0.137* Education
- 0.770*Pay Bill - 0.159* Version
The probability (p) that a household will use an improved system is calculated using the equation
p=1/[1 + exp(-y)]. To calculate this probability using the above logit model, Education and Pay
Bill were held at their mean values (3.964 and 0.570, respectively) and Version was held equal to
zero to represent the Water and Sanitation system. The results for incomes in the range 20,000-
140,000 Bs. are shown in Figure 2.
Figure 2: Probability of improved water and sanitation
system use (by income category)
100
90
80
70                                      -.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~High
-f--Middle
-*-Low
'50
, 40
30
20
10
0        I     I      I       I      I      I
0     1000   2000   3000   4000   5000   6000   7000
Monthly fee (Bs./month)
Application of findings



Annex D
Page 11 of 13
29.   Results of the probit and logit analyses are plausible and constitute the heart of this
application. Predicting household use of an improved water and sanitation system produces the
curves in Figure 2. Monthly incomes of 20,000, 50,000, and 140,000 Bs.-- the median incomes
of the high-, middle- and low-income groups, respectively--are used. Assuming the sample is
representative of Maturin households, the proportion of households in each group is one-sixth,
two-thirds, and one-sixth, respectively. With about 46,000 households altogether in Maturin, the
household distribution by income category is as follows: 7,400 are Low Income (median=20,000
Bs./mo), 31,200 are Middle Income (median=50,000Bs./mo), and 7,400 are High Income
(median=140,000). Using the 20,000, 50,000 and 140,000 Bs. curves in Figure 2 based on the
logit model, the probability that households with these incomes will use the improved Water and
Sanitation system at different prices can be calculated (Table 8).
Table 8: Estimated probability of improved system usage
Price (Bs. / month)
Income category    1,000    2,000   3,000   4,000    5,000    6,000   7,000
Low           0.71     0.62    0.52    0.42     0.33     0.24    0.18
Middle         0.86     0.80    0.72    0.64     0.54     0 44    0 34  1
High          0.94     0.91    0.87    0.82     0.76     0.67  | 0.58
For example, the probability that low-income households (median income of 20,000 Bs.) will pay
1,000 Bs. per month for the improved water and sanitation system is 71%. If the above
probabilities are multiplied by the total number of households in their respective income classes,
the result is the expected number of households that would use the improved system at each price.
For example, the expected number of households that would be willing to pay 1,000 Bs. per
month is about 39,000 (= 0.71*7,400 + 0.86*31,200 + 0.94*7,400). The table of expected
household users is as follows:
Table 9: Number of households expected to use improved water / sanitation system
Expected number of household users
-________ -_____ _  Price (Bs. per month)
1,000    2,000     3,000    4,00000     6,000             7,000
Income category            _
Low           5,300     4,600    3,800     3,100     2,400     1,800    1,300
Middle        26,800    25,000    22,500    20,000    16,800    13,700    10,600
High          7,000     6,700    6,400     6,100     5,600     5,000    4,300
TOTAL          39,000 L 36,300    32,700    29,100    24,900    20,500    16,200
PERCENT          85%   |  79%       71%   |  63%        54%   1  44%   1  35%
30.   If the expected number of user households from Table 13 is multiplied by a monthly price
for the service, the result represents expected revenue. However, this calculation is based on the
assumption that the monthly water bill of all households in Maturin is the same-- even those in
different income classes. In reality low-income households would have lower water bills because



Annex D
Page 12 of 13
(1) they use less water than middle and high income households, and (2) there is a social tariff
currently in place in Maturin so that low income households pay less per unit of water than
middle- and high-income households. The calculations that follow are thus presented simply for
illustrative purposes as rough approximations.
31.   If the price were set at 1,000 Bs. per month, the expected number of low-income
households that would use the improved system is 5,300, and the amount they would pay is
5,300,000 Bs. per month or 63.6 million Bs. per year (US$374,000/year). At this price, total
revenues would equal 39.0 million Bs. per month, which is equivalent to US$ 2.76 million per
year. If this amount is divided by the total number of households in Maturin (46,000)--rather than
the predicted number of subscribing households--the resulting contribution per household in the
city is about US$ 60 per year. Similar results for all three income groups at different prices are
presented in Table 10.
Table 10: Expected revenues from improved water and sanitation system
Price   (Bs./mo)
1,000    2,000     3,000    4,000     5,000     6,000     7,000
Income Category
Low          5,300     9,200    11,500    12,400    12,200    10,700    9,300
Middle        26,800    49,900    67,400    79,900    84,200    82,400    74,300
High         7,000    13,500    19,300    24,300    28,100 J 29,700    30,000
TOTAL         39,000    72,600    98,200   116,600   124,600   122,800   113,600
US$ (M)/yr.      2.76     5.12      6.94      8.23     8.79      8.67      8.02
US$/yr.lHH       60        111      151       179       191      188       174
The bottom three rows of Table 10 show that revenue increases as the price is increased, reaching
a maximum at a price of 5,000 Bs. per month. As the price is further increased, revenue
decreases. The important implication is thus that 5,000 Bs. is the maximum monthly price for
improved water and sanitation service that should be considered for Maturin. At prices below
5,000 Bs., revenue increases with higher prices but coverage decreases. As price is increased
beyond 5,000 Bs., however, both revenue and coverage decrease.
32.   Another significant result from Table 10 concerns households' annual expenditures for
improved water and sanitation. For example, if the price were set at 3,000 Bs. per month, the
average contribution of revenue per household in Maturin would be about US$151.  The
contribution per household served would be about US$212 per year. The pertinent planning
question is whether these amounts would be sufficient to cover debt service and operation and
maintenance costs in order to produce a financially self-sufficient and sustainable system. When
combined with engineering cost estimates, Table 9 includes the data for predicting whether a
suitable project exists for Maturin.
33.   It is also interesting to review these data in conjunction with the median income figures
reported above. The median income for the low-income category, for example, is 20,000 Bs. per



Annex D
Page 13 of 13
month. Hence, if the monthly price for improved water supply and sanitation service were set at,
say, 1,000 Bs. per month, low-income households using the improved system would pay 5% of
their income. Corresponding percentages of income for all three income groups at alternative
prices are shown in Table 11.
Table 11: Household expenditures for improved water supply / sanitation as a percentage
of income
Price (Bs. / month)
1 ,000    2,000    3,000     4,000     5,0      6,000     7,000
Income category
Low            5%-       10%      15%       20%      25%       30%       35%
Middle          2%        4%        6%        8%       10%      12%       14% X
High            1%       1%        2%        3%       4%        4%       5%
For example, at a price of 3,000 Bs. per month, low-income households that used the system on
average would pay 15% of their income, middle-income households would pay 6% of their
income, and high-income users would pay only 2% of their income.






Annex E
Page I of 6
VENEZUELA
WATER AND SEWERAGE DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
Management Contract with a Private Operator
I.    Previous Bank involvement with the water supply and sanitation (WS&S) sector in
Venezuela has been very limrited. There is nonetheless a specific experience related to the
preparation of a privatization attempt of the Caracas water system. Although this attempt
was unsuccessful, it provided useful informnation and insight for future private sector
participation initiatives in the WS&S sector. The Caracas experience highlights the three
main factors that influence the delivery of efficient and effective WS&S services: (i) the
need for an adequate regulatory framework that establishes clear roles and responsibilities
among sector agencies; (ii) the existence of appropriate tariff levels and billing/collection
mechanisms that can generate the funds necessary for financial autonomy and signal the
real cost of water to the consumers; and (iii) the need for an efficient and cost-conscious
management that can rationalize expenditures and plan for fluctuations in the stream of
revenues.
2.    HIDROCARIBE, the regional water company that provided WS&S services in the
state of Monagas, had problems in those three areas, which led to a serious deterioration of
service quality in the state. In the context of the proposed project, authorities at the state
and municipal level in Monagas, supported by HIDROVEN, have initiated steps to
decentralize and improve the service. The state's municipalities have formed an association
(Mancomunidad), which together with the state government has created the company Aguas
de Monagas (AdM), a commercial company, that has taken over from HIDROCARIBE the
responsibility for providing WS&S services in the state. AdM is now responsible for the
WS&S services for the entire state of Monagas, with a staff limited to core management in
support of its board of directors and a reduced commercial department.
3.    AdM faces several key challenges related to commercial, financial and technical
efficiency in the management of the service which are critical for its sustainability and for
the achievement of the project objectives. They are: (i) urgently rehabilitating physical
infrastructure seriously deteriorated due to neglected maintenance; (ii) increasing its
revenue stream from a very modest US$1.1 million in 1994 (about US$15 per connection
per year) through better billing and collection procedures; (iii) reducing unaccounted-for-
water levels (currently at 70%); and (iv) improving the operation and maintenance of the
system, which is being inefficiently carried out by local "operators" that supply labor and
equipment under short contracts without any performance requirements.
The Management Contract
4.    In order to address these challenges, it has been agreed that AdM will contract the
management of the services with a qualified and experienced private operator. The



Annex E
Page 2 of 6
management contract would be a first step in the process of involving the private sector in
the delivery of the service, which is expected to result in a concession or lease contract at
the end of the project. This management contract is intended to provide AdM the
flexibility that comes with working outside the public sector, as well as the experience
and working methodology that are required to confront the important transformation
process initiated with the transfer of responsibilities from  HIDROCARIBE.  The
management contract is also intended to improve the impact of the financial support that
will be provided through the project for the rehabilitation of the existing infrastructure.
5.    The management contract constitutes a key element in the set of agreements,
contracts and obligations that have been designed to foster the institutional modernization
and improvement of water and sanitation services in the state of Monagas. Two of these
agreements are directly related to it: the Service Contract and the Contract Plan. The
service contract between the Municipalities and AdM represents the core of this
framework, delegating to AdM the obligation of the municipalities to provide water and
sanitation services, and allowing AdM to deliver this service either directly or through a
private operator. The Contract Plan defines the obligations and responsibilities of AdM
and its shareholders and establishes the operational and efficiency targets that AdM
should achieve. These arrangement are explained in more detail in Annex C.
6.    Under the design that has been adopted for the management contract, the private
operator will be directly responsible for the management of the services and the contracts
with providers, for controlling the commercial activities of AdM and for the
implementation and monitoring of the works and investments to be financed by the
World Bank project. Key tasks to be carried out by the operator include: (i) setting up
macrometering; (ii) development of the commercial and information system; (iii) public
relations with customers; and (iv) review of present contracts with local operators for the
provision of labor and equipment services for the operation and maintenance of the
systems (investments required for the installation of production macrometers, computer
hardware and software for the commercial system, and the development of a public
awareness campaign will be financed under the project). The responsibility of managing
the services also includes the obligatory achievement of the efficiency goals which will
be part of the performance targets of the Contract Plan agreed upon by AdM and its
stakeholders.
7.    Consistent with its objectives, the management contract will incorporate both
economic incentives to reward the private operator for reductions in unaccounted-for-
water, achievement of cost reductions and improvement of collection above the targets
set in the Contract Plan, and financial penalties when these and other performance targets
included in the Contract Plan are not reached. However, the contract has been designed
so that the direct risk taken by the private operator is moderated by fixed monthly
payments, financed by the project as part of the regional institutional component. The
fixed payments will -be conditioned to the successful achievement of the performance
targets adopted as part of the Contract Plan.



Annex E
Page 3 of 6
8.    The performance targets included in the Contract Plan are presented in the
Appendix 1 to this annex. They have been established during project preparation through
consultation with municipal authorities, users and AdM's and HIDROVEN's technical
staff, supported by consultants with international experience in contracts involving
private operators in the management of water supply and sanitation services. The targets
were based on an evaluation of AdM's present conditions and an estimate of realistic
potential for improvement based on the experience of the consultants. The performance
targets will be reviewed after the first two years.
Contract Payment
9.    As mentioned above, the compensation system consists of two components. The
first component will be a fixed monthly payment ("retainer") which will be financed from
the World Bank loan, and will be roughly equivalent to the firm's institution building and
management consulting role. The second component will be a variable incentive
payment, contingent on improvements on the performance targets for unaccounted-for
water and collection efficiency, reflecting the entrepreneurial impact of the operator's
work. This will be financed by the revenue generated for AdM by the improvements
made, with a maximum value limited to fifty percent of the marginal benefit generated.
The incentive part of the payment system is based on the idea of short-run sharing of
benefits obtained from the independent activities of the operator. It will provide
incentives for augmented efficiency, introduce a quasi-risk-effect to the participation of
the operator, and create the possibility of additional benefits in the form of payments for
performance above pre-established targets. Both incentives and penalties will be levied
on an annual basis.
10.   Since the management contract is the first step in the process of involving the
private sector in the delivery of the services in Monagas, and that process will likely lead
to a concession/lease contract at the end of the project, two additional conditions have
been incorporated in the management contract: (i) the winner will not be excluded from
the bidding process for the concession/lease contract; and (ii) strict and transparent
conditions for reporting and accessibility by other firms to the technical and commercial
information of the operation and management of AdM have been included as part of the
Terms of Reference of this contract. Both conditions have been incorporated in order to
avoid market capture by the operator and exclude potential bidders that would be
interested in a longer term type of contract.
Bidding Process
11.   The management contract will be awarded through Competitive Bidding among a
short list of international operators of WS&S services, according to the "mission
statement" of the proponent, the qualifications of the proposed staff (which will be given
significant weight in the bidding process) and the economic terms of the proposal, that



Annex E
Page 4 of 6
should differentiate between the "retainer" and the "incentives" for each of the two
performance targets (unaccounted-for water and collection efficiency). It is expected that
bidders will compensate for any under or over estimation of the performance targets
through their proposed combination of a retainer and the performance incentives.
Weighting for each of the components of the bid (mission statement, team, retainer and
incentives) has been selected with the intention of indicating potential bidders that a
highly qualified management team and some risk taking is expected from the operator to
be selected.
Short-list Preparation
12.   Given the fact that the management contract has been designed to reduce the
direct risk to the operator, the potential of the bidders to achieve high levels of efficiency,
generating rapid benefits to the community and improving the economic-financial aspects
of the services has been one of the key elements considered in the preparation of the
short-list.
13.   A public call for declarations of interest was issued in order to create a short list of
bidders which could adequately address all of the aspects of the private sector
participation model proposed for AdM. From the eleven consortia that expressed their
interest in this contract-, six were selected to be included in the short-list (two British, one
American, one Spanish, one French and one German) according to three sets of criteria:
commercial capacity, technical capacity and technical quality. The main aspects of these
sets of criteria are:
(a)   Commercial Capacity.  All bidders must demonstrate the capacity to
operate a service with a business volume comparable to that of the AdM. As part of this
requirement, annual sales in potable water and sanitation services operated by the bidder
must be over US$ 20 million, and in addition, the company must exhibit a minimum
audited net worth of US$ 20 million as of December 31, 1994.
(b)   Technical Capacity. Operators that only manage potable water services
were excluded from consideration for the management contract and potential bidders
were selected among those that presented experience with the production phase, water
distribution, collection of effluents, and/or treatment plants in urban systems. Business
experience also constituted an important component of technical capacity, and to that end
a series of minimum standards representing the base levels of experience and
management capacity that was considered necessary to manage AdM were requested.
Those minimums standards are:
* minimum total population served of 900,000 inhabitants
* operation of an urban system serving at least 450,000 inhabitants



Annex E
Page 5 of 6
* minimum annual sales of US$ 20 million (referred to water and sanitation
services, including all of the services in which the bidder exhibits
responsibility for overall management)
(c)   Technical Quality. The technical-operative capacity and efficiency with
which the bidders currently manage services under their control were also considered key
conditions. Three parameters were selected to measure the operational aspects of
management and define a minimum level of efficiency:
*  The minimum  collections index should exceed eighty percent, and was
defined as the percentage of total billing for the service that is actually
received by the provider;
* The maximum unaccounted-for-water index should not exceed thirty percent
of production, and was defined as the percentage of water produced that is not
billed to users; and
*  The ability to manage a unit responsible for analyzing potable water quality to
fulfill the requirements of the Venezuelan regulations on this subject.
Loan Conditionality
14.   Terms of Reference and bidding criteria have been prepared by AdM  and
Hidroven with the assistance of consultants. As a condition for negotiations, a call for
bids to the satisfaction of the World Bank was issued by AdM. The signing of the
contract will be a condition of disbursement for the second package of rehabilitatio
investments (see Annex F).



Annex E
Page 6 of 6
Appendix I
CONTRACT PLAN MANAGEMENT INDICATORS
The following are the management indicators to be achieved by AdM according to the
terms of the Contract Plan. The targets for the success fee are hiighlighted in bold
(definitions are included in annex J).
Table 1. AdM Monitoring Indicators
Local currency:  (million Bs, current)
Indicator                                                                               . . .       .
1,996      1,997      1,998       1,999. :      00
Financial Indicators
Operating Ratio (%)                             111%        85%         84%        80%         78%
Debt Service Coverage                             1.5        2.0         2.0        2.0         2.0
Quick Ratio                                       4.4        6.5         6.3        6.1         6.6
Contribution to Investment Program (%)            0%        12%         17%        33%        33%
Users billed (%)                                 61%        77%         80%        83%        85%
Collections/billing (%)                         64%         73%        76%         78%        80%
Accounts receivable (months)                      4.0        3.1         2.8        2.7         2.5
Physical Indicators
Water Connections served                       78,700     82,200      85,800     89,200     92,500
Sewerage Connections served                    49,300     52,000      55,200     60,400     66,300
Residential Clients with meters (%)               2%        14%        26%         40%        500/%
Large Consumers with Meters (%)                  33%        60%        100%       100%        100%
New Meters Installed (per year)                 1,000     10,400      11,500     13,500      10,000
Unaccounted-for-water (%)                       66%         52%        47%         43%        40%
Billing period (days)                             48          37         34          32         30
Collection period (days)                          72          56         50          48         45
Daysofrationingperyear                            25          15         10           7          5
Investments and Grants
Rehabilitation Investments (million Bs)         1,539      7,978      10,089      9,871      12,962
Accumulated                                   1,539      9,516      19,605     29,475     42,437
Total grants to Investments (million Bs)        1,539      1,863       1,483          -          -
Accumulated                                   1,539      3,402       4,885      4,885      4,885
National Govemment                             307.7      931.5       741.7          -          -
Accumulated                                    308       1,239       1,981      1,981      1,981
State Government                               923.2      558.9      445.0           -          -
Accumulated                                    923       1,482       1,927      1,927       1,927
Municipalities                                 307.7      372.6      296.7           -          -
Accumulated                                    308         680        977         977        977



Annex F
Page I of 12
VENEZUELA
WATER AND SEWERAGE DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
Rehabilitation Plan for Aguas de Monagas
Background
1.    The quality of water supply and sanitation (WS&S) services in Venezuela, and
particularly in Monagas, is poor, even though more than eighty percent of urban population
has piped water supply and slightly more than sixty percent has sewerage. Water supply is
characterized by widespread rationing, low pressures, questionable water quality, extremely
high unaccounted-for-water (up to 70% according to some estimates) and inadequate
customer service. Waste waters are not treated and raw sewage is discharged into the
receiving waters, polluting surface and groundwater sources.  Despite heavy capital
investment in infrastructure, the system has largely failed to provide reliable and efficient
service.  In general, the financial performance of the sector operating company
(HIDROCARIBE) has been dismal and the quality of service has deteriorated continuously.
Physical losses are very high, billing often does not cover more than a third of the consumers
and collection typically is less than half of the billing. In order to improve these inadequacies
of the water supply and sanitation system a rehabilitation plan has been designed.
Plan Objectives
2.    In light of these water supply and sanitation problems, the two main objectives
contemplated in the Rehabilitation Plan for Aguas de Monagas are: (i) resolving the
problems associated with water services quality; and (ii) increasing the reliability of the
service.  An additional complementary objective to be achieved is improving the
customer's satisfaction and incentives for payment by avoiding disruptions in service, an
event frequently used by users as an excuse for non-payment.
Rehabilitation Investments. Selection of Priorities
3.    A Rehabilitation Plan has been designed to achieve these goals. The selection of the
works has been done according to the following order of prioritiesi:
(a) improve water quality;
(b) provide sufficient water storage capacity for a reliable service provision,
_ _ (c) improve distribution networks and
(d) improve sewerage networks and existing wastewater treatment infrastructure.
'These priorities were not followed only in a few cases where inmmediate attention to wastewater
was necessary for health and aesthetic reasons.



Annex F
Page 2 of 12
4.    The works selected to be financed under this project in conformity with these
priorities are itemized in the tables to this annex, and grouped into three rehabilitation
packages that can be independently completed in their entirety, consisting of: a) emergency
investments; b) an initial package of investments for the first two years; and c) investments
for the final two years of the project, which will be conditioned on the achievement of
contract-plan targets and in particular the agreed financial rate of return and capital
availability. Main characteristics of these three rehabilitation packages and total
investments costs to be financed under this project are summarized in the table I below:
(a) The first rehabilitation package will finance emergency investments required
to avoid the physical collapse of the urban water supply systems, correct the
principal water losses and water quality problem and help lessen acute water
shortages next summer season.  They will also concentrated in the
improvement and rehabilitation of the pumping system, in the interconnection
of the networks and in the provision of basic and reliable disinfection. These
investments will be carried out before project effectiveness and will be
eligible for retroactive financing.   Engineering designs and bidding
documents for these investments have been prepared with the help of a grant
from the Austrian government and funds provided by the state government
and are expected to be ready before negotiations (see table 2).
(b)  The second rehabilitation package will finance priority rehabilitation
investments in the urban area, mainly focused on the reduction of
unaccounted-for-water and the improvement of the system efficiency, that are
expected to have a great incidence in customer's satisfaction and in the
reliability of the service. This second sub-component is expected to be
completed within the first two years of project execution, before the mid-term
review (see table 3).
(c)  The third rehabilitation package will finance the improvement of service
quality in the urban areas and some expansion of coverage in marginal areas.
It will include the rehabilitation and improvement of potable water production
infrastructure, the rehabilitation and expansion of water distribution and
sewerage networks and the rehabilitation and improvement of wastewater
management infrastructure. This third sub-component is expected to be
carried out in the last two years of the project. Its execution will be dependent
on the achievement of the physical, financial and efficiency targets
established for mid-term review (see table 4).



Annex F
Page 3 of 12
Table 1. Investment Plan Direct Costs Estimates (US$)
Year 95 and 96 Retroactively Financed
|   Total       Foreign        Local      Equipment | Civil Works
2,750,000     495,000      2,255,000    1,660,000     1,090,000
Years 1997 and 1998
Year 97                 8,200,000|
Years 1999 and 2000
Year 98              6,100,000       l
Year 99             6,700,000
Total Investment
Years 95 to 99         32,750,000
Additional Considerations
5.    Together with the priorities presented above, two main problems that affect
Maturin, the largest consumption center, have been taken into account for the selection of
the investments to be included in the rehabilitation plan: (i) the present supply relays
heavily on the Amana-Maturin system, a complex infrastructure, largely overdimensioned,
that takes water from the Amana river more than 100 km from Maturin and transports it
after treatment through a gravely corroded steel pipe; and (ii) the lack of reliability in the
service is the main cause of customers dissatisfaction and one of the main incentives for
non-payment, apart from having an important impact on water quality.
6.    Which water sources should be used to supply Maturin?   As part of the
analysis made of the supply options for Maturin during project preparation, it has been
determined that the current system that relays heavily on the Amana-Maturin system
should be progressively abandoned in order to reduce dependence on the flow from the
Amana River, which has been greatly reduced in recent years and is subjected to increasing
competing demands (it hardly reaches 600 lls in the summer dry season, while the nominal
capacity of the Amana system is 4 m3/s). The proposed solution is based on the following
criteria:
(a)   The Amana system will be repaired only and where it is strictly necessary to
ensure the continuation of the supply in the short term. Latter, it will be
maintained as is necessary for supplying the town located along the Amana-
Maturin pipe.
(b)   Water drawn from two points on the Guarapiche River will become the
principal source used for the supply of Maturin. The first proposed intake is



Annex F
Page 4 of 12
at the present abstraction point in the Lower Guarapiche, which will be
improved and expanded to produce 1,200 I/sec. The second proposed intake
is located upstream, near Cerro Colorado and as close as possible to the
Alto Guri tank, so that both intakes could be connected to the Alto Guri
tank, which currently receives water from the Amana treatment plant.
Thanks to the additional supply provided by the two intakes on the
Guarapiche, the dependence on the Amana River will be diminished and
eventually eliminated and the present Amana pipeline will be used only to
supply towns upstream from Maturin. The result of this plan will be a
system based- in the State of Monagas with principal installations close to
the capital. Operation will be facilitated and personnel demands for housing
and convenient access to work will be easily satisfied.
(c)   The alternative of a second diversion from the Amana River has been
considered and deemed inadvisable. Technical studies concluded that both
diversions in the Guarapiche River are recommended because the river
waters are regulated and the installations are located nearer to Maturin, the
principal consumption area. Any possible advantage of diversifying the
sources (Guarapiche and Amana instead of two sources from the
Guarapiche) is limited by the fact that the catchment areas of the two rivers
are similar and near one another. Therefore, when negative conditions
(drought, high turbidity) exist in one, the same will hold true in the other
and the benefits associated with diversification become less significant.
7.    How to get better reliability for the system?  Adequate reliability  on the
distribution network requires a greater water storage capacity and the possibility to transfer
water among the different sectors and water supply sources. The Alto Guri tank (30,000
in3) represents the only significant reserve storage capacity of the supply system at the
present time and a minimum of another 30,000 m3 is suggested for the system. Under these
conditions, a new tank located near the Rojo Tank is recommended (La Manga Tank).
Distribution would so come from two sources: (i) the Alto Guri tank, which connects to the
Cerro Colorado treatment plant (as well as the Amana pipeline in the short and medium
term); and (ii) the La Manga tank, which connects to the Lower Guarapiche treatment
plant. With this additional tank, the distribution acquires a very favorable symmetry,
which in the future could be complemented by two additional underground reserve tanks of
30,000 mi3 each.
8.    The optimal operation of the system also requires a connection between the two,
now partially independent, distribution sectors of Maturin, to allow sufficient water
transfers when one of the sources experiences adverse supply conditions. Even without the
La Manga tank at ground level, the Lower Guarapiche treatment plant should be able to
pump into the Rojo tank instead of pumping directly to the network. This connection is
also necessary since it will be necessary to transfer water from Lower Guarapiche to Alto
Guri, because of the expected short-term deficiencies in the Amana supply, so that the
burden of water shortages could be shared across the entire population in the most sensible
way.



Annex F
Page 5 of 12
9.    Due to these conditions, the rehabilitation of the Rojo tank and the main pipeline
from the Rojo tank to the Alto Guri tank has been included as part of the maximum priority
emergency works, substituting the existing small-diameter pipeline and inadequate
reinforcement with the proposed connection pipe between these two tanks.



Annex F
Page 6 of 12
Table 2. REHABILITATION PACKAGE I (Retroactively Financed)
(US $)
SAN ANTONIO (Acosta)
ACTION                                         TOTAL        FOREIG        LOCAL        EQUIP.       WORKS
Additional pump in river                        45,000                    45,000        45,000
Replacement of pumps in pumping and             30,000                    30,000        28,000        2,000
automation station
Additional pump in pumping on Santa Rosa        20,000                    20,000        19,000        1,000
district and automation
Accessories (suction pads, valves, ...) in      15,000                     15,000       14,500        500
impulsion to 1.200 m  tank
Improvement of chlorination                     18,000                     18,000       16,000        2,000
TOTAL                                           128,000                   128,000   |  122,500        5,500
CARIPITO (Bolivar)
ACTION                                      j  TOTAL        FOREIG        LOCAL   |  EQUIP.         WORKS
Improvement of pumping in catchment             30,000                     30,000       30,000
Improvement of pumping and automation           20,000                     20,000        19,000       1,000
Rehabilitation of Los Cerritos tanks            39,000                     39,000                    39,000
Improvement of equipment in various treatment   20,000                     20,000       15,000        5,000
plants                                                                    _      J                     _
TOTAL                                    _      109,000                    109,000      64,000       45,000
CARIPE (Caripe)
ACTION                                         TOTAL        FOREIG   |  LOCAL   |  EQUIP.           WORKS
Improvement and adaptation of Caripe River      33,000                     33,000                    33,000
catchment                                                                            l
Pumping equipment in treatment plant            60,000       55,000        5,000        55,000        5,000
Improvements of distribution network            50,000            _        50,000       20,000       30,000
TOTAL                                       |  143,000       55,000   J   88,000    [75,000          68,000
CAICARA (Cedeflo)
ACTION                                         TOTAL        FOREIG        LOCAL _       EQUIP.  j WORKS
Adaptation of the pumping from the 1.200mi     160,000                     160,000      140,000      20,000
tank to the elevated tank                                                            l            l           I
Improvements of treatment system                78,000         _       .   78,000       75,000        3,000
TOTAL                                          238,000                    238,000       215,000      23,000
PUNTA DE MATA (Ezequiel Zamora)
!ACTION                                      |TOTAL          FOREIG        LOCAL         EQUIP.      WORKSt
Improvement of impulsion pipes                 140,000  |                  140,000      10,000       130,000
Improvement of equipment for wells              88,000    _                88,000       80,000        8,000
Improvement of tank air intake pumps            35,000                     35,000                    35,000
TOTAL                                          230263,000                               9,000
TEMBLADOR (Libertador)
ACTION                                           TOTAL        FOREIG         LOCAL        EQUIP [ WORKS
Protection of equipment for emergency wells and
pumps                                       160,000                        60,000        60,0001
|_TOTAL                                     |  60,000   |                   60,000       60,000



Annex F
Page 7 of 12
ARAGUA (Piar)
ACTION            -    -   -.  -   -   -
|'Ol'AL                                          123,000  |              j   123,000   [-4S,000    7h   RrI
QUIRIQUIRE (Punceres)
ACTION                                         TOTAL        FOREIG         LOCAL         EQUIP.   WORKS
Partial replacement of adduction pipes          30,000                      30,000    1               30,000
TOTAL                                           30,000   |                  30,000    |               30,000
BARRANCAS (Sotillo)
I TOTAL                                           . 000 -
MATURIN (Maturin)
ACTION                                         TOTAL        FOREIG         LOCAL         EQUIP.    WORKS
Replacement of equipment in Lower Guarapiche    54,000                      54,000       45,500       8,500
treatment plant
Improvement of the Lower Guarapiche treatment   82,000                      82,000                   82,000
plant's outlet
Rehabilitation of filters in Lower Guarapiche  220,000   _                 220,000       180,000     40,000
Rehabilitation of Rojo tank                     70,000                      70,000         .     ..... 70,000
Main pipeline from Rojo tank to Alto Guri tank  790,000      440,000       350,000       700,000     90,000
TOTAL                                          1,216,000    440,000   |   776,000   | 925,500        290,500
GENERAL ACTIONS
I General cleaning of water collection networks  57,000                      57,000                    57,000
TOTAL                                           57,000                      5 57,000                     00
I   ~~hA~oIolo!oU                                   *  0000                     ,0  0      1,090,000 



Annex F
Page 8 of 12
Table 3. REHABILITATION PACKAGE 11
WORKS FOR 1997:
GENERAL ACTIONS                                                                              USS
Macrometering, Phase I                                                                   150,000
Micrometering, Phase I                                                                   600,000
SAN ANTONIO (Acosta)
| Adaptation of the treatment plant for 120 I/sec                                          420,000
Adaptation of the impulsion to the 1,000 cubic meters tank                               180,000
CARIPITO (Bolivar)
Replacement of pipes in the distribution network                                         150,000
CARIPE (Caripe)
Improvements and replacements in the distribution network                                75,000
CAICARA (Cedeflo)
Improvement and adaptation of the treatment piant to 60 I/sec                            210 000
Improvement of the impulsion pipe                                                        218,000
PUNTA DE MATA (Ezequiel Zamora)
Adaptation of the chlorination in the pumping tank                                       30,000
Adaptation of the pumping equipment                                                      170,000
TEMBLADOR (Libertador)
I Improvements and replacements in the distribution network, Phase I                      314,500|
MATURIN (Maturin)
| Repair and rehabilitation of the Amana system                                           1,367,000
Adaptation of Lower Guarapiche treatment plant to 1,200 I/sec                           2,632,000
JUSEPIN (Maturin)
Improvement of treatment plant and pumping equipment                |                    600,000
Adaptation of the tank to 1,000 cubic meters                                             75,000
AGUASAY (Maturfn)
L Conversion of the multiple-well system to a two-well system                             218,000
Adaptation of the elevated tank to 500 cubic meters                                      87,500
SANTA BARBARA (Maturln)
I Conversion of the multiple-well system to a two-well system                    |        218,000
ARAGUA (Piar)
Adaptation of the adduction pipes                                                        270,000
Adaptation of the treatment plant to 30 I/sec                                            117,000
QUIRIQUIRE (Punceres)
Adaptation of the Punceres River outlet                                                  80,000
Improvement and adaptation for pumping treated water                                     175,000
Repairs for the tank                                                                     S5,000



Annex F
Page 9 of 12
BARRANCAS (Sotillo)
I Improvement and replacements in the distribution network                                350,000
URACOA (Sotillo)
Well repairs                                                                             20,000
Conversion of the multiple-well system to a two-well system                             218,000
TOTAL FOR 1997: US$ 9.000.000
WORKS FOR 1998:
GENERAL ACTIONS                                                                              USS
Micrometering Phase 11                                                                  450,000
Collection offices                                                                       250,000
SAN ANTONIO (Acosta)
Arrangement of the provisional water outlet in the Colorado River                        70,000
Improvement and extension of tank to 5,000 cubic meters                                  375,000
CARIPITO (Bolivar)
Improvement and extension of tank to 5,000 cubic meters                                 375,000
Improvement and replacement in the sewerage network, Phase I                            439,500
CARIPE (Caripe)
Adaptation of the adduction to the network                                               1,480,000       |
CAICARA (Cedeilo)
Improvement of the outlet and adaptation of pumps                                        180,000
Pipe replacement in the distribution network                                             100,000
PUNTA DE MATA (Ezequiel Zamora)
Improvement and replacements in the distribution network                                 200,000
TEMBLADOR (Libertador)
Conversion of the multiple-well system to a two-well system                             20 0,
Improvement and replacements in the distribution network, Phase 11                      235,500
MATURIN (Maturln)
Complementary tank on a ground level of Rojo tank                                       1,750,000
Improvement and replacements in the distribution network                                 650,000
JUSEPIN (Maturin)
Improvement and replacements in the distribution network                       |         117,500|
SANTA BARBARA (Maturin)
Adaptation of elevated tanks to 800 cubic meters                                         140,000
Adaptation of the connection between wells and tanks                                     30,000
Improvement and replacements in the sewerage network                                     90,000
Improvement and adaptation of the treatment plant                                        170,000
ARAGUA (Piar)
Improvement and replacements in the distribution network                                 150,000
Improvement and replacements in the sewerage network                                     150,000



Annex F
Page 10 of 12
QUIRIQUIRE (Punceres)
Improvement and replacements in the sewerage network                                        137,500
Adaptation of the marginal drain pipe                                                       100,000
BARRANCAS (Sotillo)
Adaptation of the marginal drain pipe                                                       120,000
Sewage pumping station adjustment                                                           240,000
TOTAL FOR 1998: USS 8,200,000
TOTAL INVESTMENTS FOR REHABILITATION PACKAGE Il: USS 17,200,000



Annex F
Page 11 of 12
Table 4. REHABILITATION PACKAGE III
WORKS FOR 1999:
GENERAL ACTIONS                                                                              usS
|| Micrometering Phase III                                                                350,000
SAN ANTONIO (Acosta)
Pipe replacement in the distribution network                                              100,000
CARIPITO (Bolivar)
||~A`daptatior,of the marginal drainpipe                                                   I 100000|
CARIPE (Caripe)
IAdaptation of wastewater purification to 130 I/sec                                       355,000
PLfNTA DE MATA (Ezequiel Zamora)
f Adaptation of the elevated tanks to 1,500 cubic meters                                  262,500
LAdaptation of the impulsion pipes to the tanks                                          520,000
TEMBLADOR (Libertador)
Improvement and replacements in the sewerage network, Phase I                             444,000
Sewage pumping station adjustment                                                       240,000
Adaptation of oxidation pond to 30 I/sec                                                 45,000
MATUR[N (Maturin)
I Adaptation of the Cerro Colorado treatment plant, Phase I                              1,050,000
Merger of the Cerro Colorado plant to Alto Guri tank                                    626,000
JUSEPIN (Maturin)
' Improvement and replacements in the sewerage network                                    275,000
Adaptation of the marginal drainpipe                                                     200,000
Adaptation of the purification plant to 40 I/sec                                         140,000
ARAGUA (Piar)
I Adaptation of the tanks to 4,000 cubic meters                                           300,000
QUIRIQUIRE (Punceres)
! Repairs and replacements for the adduction                                              680,000
BARRANCAS (Sotillo)
Improvement and replacements in the sewerage network                                      300,000
URACOA (Sotillo)
I Improvement and replacements in the sewerage network                                    112,500
TOTAL FOR 1999: USS 6,100,000
WORKS FOR 2000:
GENERAL ACTIONS                                                                              usS
Aficrometering Phase IV                                                                 490,000
Collection offices, Phase 11                                                            250,000



Annex F
Page 12 of 12
CARIPITO (Bolivar)
Improvement and replacements in the sewerage network, Phase 11                   |        310,500
Modernization and treatment with prolonged ventilation (130 Lls)                          255,000
CARIPE (Caripe)
Improvement and replacements in the sewerage network                                      425,000
CAICARA (Cedeflo)
Improvement of impulsion pipe                                                             502,000
Improvement and replacements in distribution network                             |        112,500
Improvement and adaptation of the purification pond to 60 I/sec                           250,000
PUNTA DE MATA (Ezequiel Zamora)
improvement and replacements in sewerage network                                 I        325,000
Adaptation of the elevated tank to 1,500 cubic meters                                     162,500
TEMBLADOR (Libertador)
I Improvement and replacements in the sewerage network, Phase 11                            206,000
vlATURIN (Maturin)
Improvement and replacements in the sewerage network, Phase 1                             300,000
Adaptation of the sewage pumping station                                                  370,000
Adaptation of the wastewater purification                                                1,714,000
AGUASAY (Maturin)
| Improvement and replacements of the sewerage network, Phase I                             125,000
| Adaptation of the oxidation pond to 25 l/sec                                              237,500
ARAGUA (Piar)
Adaptation of the oxidation pond to 30 I/sec                                              245,00
BARRANCAS (Sotillo)
IAdaptation of the oxidation pond to 80 1/sec                                    T'        420,000
TOTAL FOR 2000: USS 6,700,000
TOTAL INVESTMENTS FOR REHABILITATION PACKAGE HI: USS 12,800,000



Annex G
Page I of 15
VENEZUELA
WATER AND SEWERAGE DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
Rural Rehabilitation and Participatory Management Program
(Programa Participativo de Mejoramiento de Acueductos Rurales - PROPAMAR)
Background'
1.    Unlike many other countries in the region, Venezuela has high rates of coverage for
WS&S services in rural areas. However, the quality of services is poor. It is estimated that 80%
of the rural population has piped water supply through individual house connections and 40% is
connected to a sewerage system. In the state of Monagas, rural water supply coverage is also
high. Sewerage service is uncommon, however, in Monagas' low population density rural areas,
and the majority of residents rely on pit-latrines and septic tank systems for the disposal of
household wastes. Rural water supply systems in the state of Monagas usually consist of a well, a
storage tank and a small distribution system.  They are subject to intermittent service with
prolonged periods of interruption. Moreover, most systems do not treat water for potability and
water quality varies widely among rural communities, leading to adverse health impacts in some
cases. These conditions stem from several critical problems: i) inadequate supervision of well
operators, due to the isolation of rural systems from the central management unit in Maturin; ii)
little or no water treatment or water quality monitoring; iii) poorly designed wells and/or water
systems; iv) insufficient water supplies; and vii) insufficient finding and lack of timely payment
for repairs and maintenance.
2.    All of these problems are rooted in highly centralized and deficitary public management
systems with few, if any, built-in incentives for delivering a reliable and efficient service and no
attempt at cost-recovery.  Rural water and sanitation systems are the responsibility of
municipalities. Historically, however, municipalities have not had the budget resources or the
institutional capacity to assume this responsibility. To fill the void, the Ministry of Sanitation first
and the state government later have provided informal yet systematic technical and financial
support to rural water systems in recent years. Today, ninety percent of the 206 rural water
systems in the state of Monagas are managed by the State Public Works Department (Obras
Publicas del Estado - OPE), and the remaining ten percent are under the responsibility of
HIDROCARIBE, the regional water company. The OPE systems are generally small, each
covering about 100 households. They are usually run by individually contracted operators who
are poorly trained and have disincentives to travel to the capital to report on problems, since they
must pay travel costs out of their own salary.  HIDROCARIBE - Monagas contracts out the
operation of the rural systems to five operating companies, each covering a separate region of the
This background section is based on a report on institutional arrangements for water supply and sanitation in
rural and peri-urban areas in the state of Monagas Monagas, prepared by Gabrielle Watson, from Vanasse
Hangen Brustlin, Inc. (VHB), in February 1995.



Annex G
Page 2 of 15
state (about 800 households on average each). In many cases, paradoxically, the state's poor
performance has led municipalities to re-assume some of their initial service responsibility and
give ad-hoc support by providing emergency water supply or funding to conduct repairs.
3.    The sustainability of rural water systems is all the more precarious that in the present
organizational framework, communities are virtually not involved in the operation and
maintenance of water and sanitation services.  Although communities participated in water
services management in the 1960s, generous Government subsidy programs beginning in the
1970s for basic services such as housing, health, water, sanitation and even electric power have
encouraged communities to take a more passive role in defining and meeting their service needs.
Recent government budget cuts and the resulting deterioration of basic services has increased
communities' dissatisfaction with service levels while raising their awareness of government
funding limits. Moreover, discussions with rural community representatives have indicated that
communities would be interested in a scheme involving them more in the management of their
WS&S services. A relatively high level of organization at the community level provides a
favorable basis for a community based service management scheme: communities in rural areas
are currently organized in functional groupings such as neighborhood associations (juntas de
vecino.s), farmer associations (sindicatos agrarios), and women's groups (amas de casa). In
addition, since 1989, groups of communities are represented by Parish Committees (juntas
parroquiales), which are elected in parallel with the municipal government2. In order to develop
a community-based management system for rural water supply, the proposed loan will include a
rural subcomponent which will support the Rural Rehabilitation and Participatory Management
Program (Programa Participativo de Mejoramiento de Acueductos Rurales - PROPAMAR) to
assist in the rehabilitation of rural water supply infrastructure, and to pilot decentralized and
participatory management of rural water systems in the state of Monagas.
Objectives and Strategy
4.    Objectives. The objectives of the rural subcomponent are to i) improve the quality of
water supply service in rural areas; ii) improve the sustainability of rural water systems through
better operation and maintenance and cost-recovery practices by the communities themselves; and
iii) pilot a new participatory management model that could be replicated in the rest of the country.
5.    Strategy.  Growing fiscal demands on the central and regional governments have
prompted a search for alternatives to the heavily subsidized and centralized water supply and
sanitation management scheme for rural areas in Venezuela. In the state of Monagas, state and
municipal authorities have decided to test a new participatory approach to increase the rural
population's access to good quality water services through community-generated and managed
water supply projects, with support form the central Government. The proposed approach also
2 The Venezuelan Organic Law for Municipal Administration states that "Parishes will be auxiliary entities of the
municipal government and of local participation, through which residents will collaborate in the management
of community matters" (Chapter V, Article 34). To date, Monagas Parish Committees have acted primarily as
conduits of demands from rural and peri-urban communities, though carrying out projects or monitoring
senrice conditions are clearly functions within their constitutional scope.



Annex G
Page 3 of 15
seeks to control investment and maintenance expenditures through improved cost-recovery, and
increase the efficiency of investment.
6.    The strategy of the state and municipal authorities relies on the following key principles:
*  the government will provide low per capita investment grants to ensure a basic level of
service for all rural residents; the basic level of service is defined as potable water
supply through individual house connections that will meet the daily human
consumption need, set at 150 liters/capita/day by the Venezuelan authorities using
guidelines from the World Health Organization.
*  communities will finance the cost difference between a higher level of service they may
choose and the basic level of service;
* investment decisions will be based on community demand;
* communities will take over the management of water service operations and
maintenance, and the responsibility for cost-recovery.
7.     Preparation Work3. During project preparation, the following studies were carried out
with support from the Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development Grant: i) an analysis
of the institutional framework and the distribution of responsibilities for rural water supply4; ii) a
diagnosis of the current infrastructure and rehabilitation needs, including detailed cost estimates5;
and iii) a survey of approximately 800 rural households to assess rural residents' willingness to
pay and willingness to participate in the management of rural water supply services6. In addition,
the project preparation team held consultative meetings with leaders of several rural communities
and mayors of municipalities to discuss current problems and the communities' interest in taking
over the operation of and cost-recovery for their WS&S systems. Results from the willingness-
to-pay study indicate that rural residents are primarily concerned with water quality and its impact
on health. The study predicts that 60% of respondents would be willing to pay Bs 2,000
(US$11.77) per month and over 50% would pay 3,000 (US$17.6) per month for improved service
providing safely potable water. These results are significant given that rural users are currently
not billed at all for their water service.  Moreover, 56%  of respondents believe that their
community would want to run its own water system, 77% of respondents were somewhat or very
interested in serving in a water committee, and 58% thought that the community would do a
better job than government in managing the water system. A summary of the results of the study
is presented in Appendix 1.
Description of the Program
3The preparation of this annex and the design of the PROPAMAR benefited from the technical advice of Jennifer
Sara, Vijay Jagganathan and Michael Garn (TWUWS).
4 Carried out by Gabrielle Watson (VHB Inc.).
s Carried out by Consultores Tecnicos Integrales, Venezuela.
6 Carried out by CVM, Inc. (Chapel, N.C.) in association with DOXA (Venezuela).
At the July 1995 exchange rate of Bs 170 to the US Dollar.



Annex G
Page 4 of 15
8.    The subcomponent, also called PROPAMAR, would finance investment and technical
assistance for the improvement of water supply service and management capacity at the
community level. The investments will include civil works, equipment, goods and materials for
the rehabilitation, improvement and some expansion of water systems in rural areas to provide a
basic level of service which is defined as: (i) a service connection for every household; (ii) water
supply service to ensure the availability of 150 liters per capita per day, and (iii) supply of potable
water (i.e., disinfected). Rural WS&S systems in approximately 85 communities covering about
45,000 rural inhabitants (about 50 % of the state's rural population) are expected to be financed
over four years under this subcomponent. Two subsidy ceilings would be set: the first, amounting
to approximately $56 per capita, would apply to about 90% of communities, which have a water
system that needs to be improved; the second, amounting to approximately $180 per capita,
would apply to about 10% of communities where no water supply infrastructure currently exists.
A detailed estimate of investment needs is presented in Appendix 2.
9.    The technical assistance will finance the coordination and administration of PROPAMAR
by AdM, and it will enable AdM to assist communities in organizing, designing and executing
investments, and building management capacity. Specifically, the subcomponent would finance
the services of a non-governmental organization (NGO)8 to assist communities in: (i) setting up a
water committee; (ii) examining technical options to meet different service levels, and the cost-
sharing implications of investment and operation and maintenance for these options; (iii)
organizing and managing their water systems, (iv) preparing a financing plan and financial
management scheme for proposed investments and subsequent 0 & M of the system; and (v)
raising awareness on water resource issues. The NGO would also carry out: (i) training through
workshops on management and accounting and cost recovery for water committee
representatives; (ii) a certification program for water system operators; and (iii) an information,
dissemination and awareness campaign using local media sources (radio, newspapers) as well as
existing community fora to promote the Government's strategy for managing rural water systems
and the proposed program; and (iv) capacity building for municipalities to take over technical
assistance to communities once the NGO withdraws.
Cost and Implementation Plan
10.   Costs. The total direct cost of the subcomponent is estimated at US$3.85 million as
shown in Table I below. The total cost is estimated at US$4.7 when taking into account
contingency costs (US$.52 million for investments and US$09 million for technical assistance)
and taxes (US$.24 million for equipment purchases). Costs for works and equipment are based on
an average per capita investment of about US$70 ($12,000 Bolivares) for a variety of technology
options resulting from the rural infrastructure diagnostic study prepared as part of project
preparation. The estimated cost of the proposed technical assistance activities is based on the
scope of work indicated in the activity's terms of reference and on consultant and management
fees for similar work carried out in Venezuela.
8 This includes the possibility of contracting the services of a consulting firm, since the contract will be awarded
through a competitive bidding process. All further references to "the NGO" in this document should be
understood to include a consulting firm as well.



Annex G
Page 5 of 15
Table 1. Cost Summary (US$000)
-Prqgram C-omponent            ......             Amount
Investment                                        3,000
Technical Assistance                               850
NGO or Consultant Implementation Support        750
Program Coordination/Administration             100
Total Cost                                        3,850
11.   Financing and Flow of Funds. The subcomponent's financing plan is presented in Table
2 below. Funds would be channelled through a trust fund to be managed by Aguas de Monagas.
The Central Government would finance 50 percent of eligible investments (works, equipment,
goods and materials) and 100 percent of the technical assistance costs, including trust fund
administration, for a total of US$2.35 million, which would be provided on a grant basis to the
trust fund and which would be eligible for reimbursement from the Bank loan9. The State
Government would contribute 35% of the investment costs, estimated at US$1.05 million.
Participating municipalities and communities will finance the remaining 15% in the form of cash,
labor and/or materials, for a value of US$0.45 million The trust fund would be created with an
initial capitalization equivalent to four months of expected investments for 1996 to be provided
from the State Government's 1996 contribution.  Creation of the trust fund and its initial
capitalization would be completed by March 31, 1996.
12.   A subsidiary grant agreement will be signed between the Ministry of Environment and
Aguas de Monagas, for the transfer of US$2.35 million into the trust fund over four years, to
cover the central government's portion of the program. State funds will be allocated into the trust
fund from the state budget for rural water systems, on a bi-annual basis. Municipal funds will be
allocated into the trust fund on a project by project basis, in coordination with the community's
presentation of its proposed investment project and cost-sharing plan (see Community Water
Action Plan, COWAP, para. 24). All contributions will be regulated through the Trust Fund
Agreement.
Table 2. Subcomponent Financing (US$000)
-Sir etof   d                     -:               -: tet  T -. ....  Total
. -. .':.--.. . . '. . - -....:.   %   ... ..    .m.   t 
Central Government (IBRD  1,500      50        850        100       2,350     61
financed)                 _
9 This large subsidy is justified by the pilot nature of the Participatory Program in Venezuela, and by the
relatively low current level of cost sharing at the community level for water supply services.



Annex G
Page 6 of 15
State Govemment            1050     35           0         0       1,050     27
Municipalities/communitics  450      15          0         0         450     12
Total                     3,000      100       850       100       3850       100
13.   Institutional arrangements. PROPAMAR will be implemented over a four-year period.
In the first year, a small number of communities will be targeted for program promotion on the
basis of the demand analysis yielded by the willingness-to-pay study for the rural areas, and of the
interest in the program expressed by the corresponding communities and mayors. In the following
three years, continued demand assessment and outreach to communities will enable communities
and mayors to come forward and express their intention to participate in the program.
14.   AdM will be the executing agency for PROPAMAR. To channel investment and technical
assistance financing, AdM will create a trust fund and act as its trustee. AdM will contract a trust
fund coordinator and necessary support staff to supervise the program on a full time basis. The
World Bank will approve the operating procedures of the trust fund.
15.   To manage the day-to-day operation of the program and provide technical assistance to
communities, a well-qualified Non Governmental Organization (NGO) or consultant will be hired
under Bank financing. The contract will be for a period of 2 years. At the end of two years it will
be either extended or terminated, according to the NGO's performance to be evaluated by AdM
after 18 months. In the case where the contract is terminated, another NGO would be contracted
for the remaining two years of the project. The Venezuelan authorities have prepared terms of
reference for the NGO's work that are satisfactory to the World Bank. They have also presented
to the Bank a draft Operating Manual - as a condition of negotiations - which must be revised and
completed as a condition of disbursements. Other conditions of disbursement for this
subcomponent include the signing of a contract with an NGO for the execution of PROPAMAR.
and the initial capitalization of the Trust Fund.
16.   Implementation Responsibilities. AdM will be responsible for:
*  Supervising the work of the NGO, and preparing quarterly reports on the program's
performance for the Board of Directors in AdM;
*  Approving Community Water Action Plans (COWAPS) at the level of the Board of
Directors, on the recommendation of the NGO,
*  Aministering procurement and disbursements from the trust fund.
17.   The NGO will be responsible for:
* Preparing and executing the information campaign to promote PROPAMAR and
explain eligibility and participation rules;
* Identifying communities and municipalities that are willing to participate in the
program;



Annex G
Page 7 of 15
* Providing technical assistance to communities for: i) creation of water committees; ii)
diagnostic of problems and identification of technical solution options with
community; and iii) preparation of COWAPs,
* Evaluation of COWAPs to be funded under project guidelines, and recommendation to
AdM for approval;
* Preparation of Terms of Reference for works corresponding to each COWAP, in
consultation with communities;
* Once works are initiated, continued assistance to communities in supervising works,
training for water system O&M management, tariff collection, and hiring of operator.
* Training of Municipality staff members (one to two in each depending on rural
population and number of communities) to assist in technical assistance to
communities during program implementation, and to take over technical assistance
activities after project ends and NGO or Consultant withdraws at the end of the four
years.
18.   The Communities, with assistance from the NGO and the municipality will be responsible
for:
* forming a water comittee;
* preparing the COWAP and arranging for the community cost-sharing of at least 5% of
the investment costs, in the form of cash, labor or materials;
* supervising the works;
* taking over the operation and maintenance of the system once it is improved, including
cost-recovery functions.
19.   The Municipalities will be responsible for:
3 Facilitating program dissemination activities through the juntas parroquiales to the
communities;
* Identifying interested communities and channeling community requests for
participation to the NGO;
* Participating in the COWAP selection and approval process;
* Providing budget to complement the community's share to reach 15% of the rural
program investments costs;
* Acquiring the capacity to provide technical assistance to communities by working with
the NGO during comunity project preparation, and taking over T.A. responsibilities
once the new/rehabilitated systems is in place.
20.   The State Government will be responsible for:
* Providing funds to cover 35% of the rural program investment;
* Continuing- operations and maintenance activities in those communities not yet
involved in PROPAMAR,



Annex G
Page 8 of 15
* Participating in the approval of COWAPs through AdM's Board of Directors, which
includes a representative of the State Government.
21.    The Central Government will be responsible for:
* Transfering funds into the trust fund to cover 50% of the rural program investments
and 100% of expenses for technical assistance activities for PROPAMAR; these funds
would be eligible for reimbursement from the Bank loan.
Summary of Steps in Implementation for PROPAMAR Sub-projects
Eight steps will be followed for the implementation of a community water project under the proposed program:
1. The NGO promotes the program and raises awareness on water issues through direct media, thtough
mayors and juntas parroquiales in the municipalities, and through community leaders. Duration: I month.
2. The interested community forms a water committee, either as a new association or within an existing
community organization structure. The water cormmittee receives assistance from the NGO to promote the
program wNithin the community. Duration: 1.5 months.
3. The water committee, with assistance from the NGO, collects a commitment fee (500 Bs., equivalent to
US$3) from each household, to be used as part of the community's contribution to investment costs. The fee
ensures commitment and motivation from the community to pursue the program. The water committee
deposits the commitment funds directly into the rural program trust fund. Duration: I month.
4. Once the commitment fee is secured in the trust fund, the NGO formally begins technical assistance to:
the water committee to: i) strengthen its planning and management capacity; and ii) prepare the COWAP.
Duration: 3 months.
5. The Water Committee presents its COWAP for the NGO's clearance and recommendation for approval
to AdM. Along with the COWAP, the community presents the remainder of its contribution to investMent
costs (cash, tools. and/or letter of commitment from water committee to mobilize a certain quantity of
community labor). For the COWAP to be formally considered, the municipality must deposit its share of
investment costs into the trust fimd. Duration: 0.5 month.
6. If necessary, the COWAP is modified or improved to reach complete compliance with program conditions..
Once AdM approves the COWAP, it can begin the contracting of works. The community water comrnmittee
gives the no-objection for the signing of contracts. Duration: 1.5 months.
7. The water committee is actively involved in the execution and supervision of works. Throughout, it is
receiving T.A. to take over the management and operation of the water system. Duration: 3 months.
8. The water committee begins managing its water system, and it receives continued T.A. from the NGO
and the municipality. An evaluation of the community water project is carried out after 6 months, to assess: i)
the effectiveness of the rehabilitation works; and ii) the functioning of the water committee as provider of
service.
Throughout steps I to 7, municipalities are building up capacity to take over the NGO's T.A. role once the NGO]>
withdraws, at the end of its contract.



Annex G
Page 9 of 15
22.   Eligibility criteria.  Communities will learn about the program, its conditions and
eligibility criteria through outreach and promotion activities coordinated by the NGO. Once a
community decides to participate, its newly formed water committee, with support from the
NGO, will collect a flat commitment fee from community households, for a total amount
equivalent to 500 Bs. (approximately US$3) per household for at least 80% of the households in
that community. The commitment funds collected will be deposited directly into the trust fund, to
indicate the community's willingness to participate in the program and receive technical assistance
in the preparation of a COWAP. The funds will be used as part of the community's contribution
towards investment cost-sharing.
23.   To be eligible for investment funding through the program, communities should fulfill the
following criteria:
i) The community will have formed a water committee to manage a) the preparation of
the Community Water Action Plan (COWAP), the contents of which are detailed below
and b) the water system itself, once improved, including cost-recovery activities,
ii) The water comittee should agree to cover all routine operations and maintenance costs
for the system, once it is improved;
iii) The water committee will have prepared a COWAP; in order to ensure complete
community commitment, the COWAP will be signed by at least 80 % of households
before it is acceptable for submission to the selection committee.
24.   Content of Community Water Action Plan (COWAP). The COWAPs will detail:
a) the nature and cost of investments planned, including engineeering designs and the
anticipated improvements yielded by those investments;
b) the amount raised by the municipality and the community for 15% investment cost-
sharing; in addition, the amount raised by the community for investment above the subsidy
level, if any.
c) the planned scheme for operation and maintenance of the system, whether by the
community itself (through a community-selected operator), or through a hired contractor,
d) the planned financial plan and management scheme to cover routine operation and
maintenance costs and an increasing part of major maintenance and future capital costs.
This would include the proposed mechanism for tariff collection at the community level;
e) the community association that will hold responsibility for WS&S management
activities. This section will describe: i) how and when the association was established; ii)
its composition (number and gender of members, division of responsibilities); and iii) what



Annex G
Page 10 of 15
its training needs are, if any; the existence of a body to manage the sub-project at the
community level will be a condition for funding.
Participating communities will receive technical assistance from the NGO or Consultant in
coordination with AdM and the municipalities (through the juntas parroquiales and the appointed
staff member) to improve their management and decision-making capacity and to prepare
COWAPs, including the technical/design work.
25.   COWAP Selection and approval. The NGO/Consultant will evaluate the COWAPs on
a first-come, first-served basis and make recommendations for approval or modification to AdM,
which, with involved municipalities, will select a number of proposals corresponding to the funds
available for that year. Complete procedures will be detailed in the operational manual for the
program.
The approval of proposals will be made on the basis of the following criteria:
- technical soundness, cost-feasibility and cost-effectiveness of proposed works and
improvements;
- evidence of compliance with the financial conditions described above, i.e. i) deposit of
community commitment fee in the trust fund account to allow the onset of technical
assistance activities; and ii) deposit of community and municipality cost-sharing funds
(1 5% of total basic investment cost plus amount above basic investment cost) in the trust
fund account;
26.   In principle, once the community has reached the COWAP presentation stage, its chances
of receiving funding will be high. Adjustments and revisions of the COWAP may be necessary,
and will be carried out with assistance from the NGO or Consultant. The Bank would review the
first five COWAPs before final approval, and subsequent reviews would be done on an ex-post
basis.
27.   Technical Assistance to Communities during and after COWAP Implementation.
During construction the community, through its water committee, and the NGO with the
municipality will supervise the works.  The water committee will also set up the financial
management scheme and tariff collection mechanism to be implemented once the improved system
is functioning. It will select an operator (or may keep the one already in place, if his/her service
has been satisfactory) to operate the system, on a competitive basis. The operator will undergo a
short training and certification program organized by the NGO or Consultant and AdM for all
new and continuing water system operators in the communities involved in the program. After
the works are completed, the community will be fully responsible for implementing its water
systems management scheme, including cost-recovery activities.
28.   Support to the communities would include a yearly inspection of the infrastructure, a
review of the tariffs charged in the community and of management practices, and assistance in
large maintenance works. In the first year after works are completed the NGO/Consultant would



Annex G
Page 11 of 15
provide this yearly technical consultancy at a nominal fee, which will be defined in the operational
manual to be presented to the bank as a condition of effectiveness.  It will also train the
municipality to take over this task thereafter. The municipality would continue to charge a
nominal fee for the yearly consultancy to cover part of its costs.
Procurement and Disbursement
29.   Procurement will follow Bank procedures. It is anticipated that contracts for works and
goods will be below US$250,000 and US$50,000, respectively, allowing for local shopping
procedures with at least three quotes. AdM will be responsible for procurement and will operate
in consultation with the water committees, who will give their no-objection to the signing of
contracts and who will instruct AdM to make payments when works/tasks are completed to the
water committees' satisfaction. Where possible and convenient, purchases may be grouped to
allow for local competitive bidding. The Bank will disburse loan funds upon review of all
procurement documentation for community investment projects, presented in groupings to
diminish transaction costs. Bank review of procurement documentation will be done ex-ante for
the first ten community projects, and ex-post thereafter.
Table 3. Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Investments
Annual                              0 390,0001  900,0001 900,000  810,000| 3,000,0001
Cumulative                          0 390,000  1,290,0001 2,190,000 3,000,000 3,000,0001
Project Supervision and Reporting
30.   Monitoring and Performance Evaluation.   Active monitoring and supervision,
especially during the first year, will enable AdM to make the adjustments necessary for improved
implementation performance in subsequent years. This strategy will help ensure the sustainability
of investments in rural WS&S infrastructure over the long term. Monitoring Indicators for the
program will allow the supervision team to follow the progress and speed of implementation.
Performance will be evaluated separately to judge whether the program is achieving its intended
results. Monitoring Indicators are described in the following table:
Indicators                                          Targets for 1999
Physical
Number of beneficiaries of improved water systems  32,500
Number of systems with water treatment          60
Number of households newly connected to water supply  4,000
system
Institutional
Number of new water committees formed           70
Number of COWAPs approved                       70



Annex G
Page 12 of 15
Number of investment contracts signed            65
Number of investment contracts completed         60
Number of operators trained and certified        60
Number of water committee leaders trained        120 (2 per committee)
continued
Financial
Total investment through PRUWF (and avge. per capita  US$2. 190 M
costs)                                         US$70/capita
Total Technical Assistance through PRUWF (and per US$635,000
capita cost)
3 1.   The performance of the program will additionally be measured through annual audits of
the improved water systems to evaluate water quality, reliability, financial viability of self-run
community systems. To measure the success of PROPAMAR, particular attention will be paid to
i) whether the improved water systems supply potable water at the set objective of 150
liters/capita/day, ii) whether and how many beneficiary communities are meeting their cost-
recovery responsibilities and cash-flow  requirements;  iii) whether the level of per capita
investment has been maintained under the established ceilings.   These audits would be carried
out by an independent NGO or consultant hired by AdM under the T.A. component of
PROPAMAR. In addition, a small household survey would be carried out at mid-term review and
at the end of the project, to measure the beneficiaries' satisfaction with their level of service.
32.   Reporting. The program coordinator in AdM, in consultation with the executing NGO,
will prepare semi-annual progress reports on PROPAMAR and the status of implementation,
based on the monitoring indicators described above. This report is to be sent to the Bank by
September 30th for the semester ending June 3 0th, and by March 3 1st for the semester ending
December 3 1 rst of each year. The March report will include the yearly performance results
stemming from the performance audit. The report will detail the problems as well as the
achievements of the program to allow for a constructive learning process and program
adjustment, if necessary. The report will be submitted to the Bank for review, comment, and
action, if needed, to improve the program's implementation mechanisms. In addition, a special
report on this subcomponent will be prepared for the mid-term review of the project.
33.   Financial Audits. During project preparation, the accounts to be set up and auditing
procedures (scope, terms of reference) were agreed with AdM. Aguas de Monagas will maintain
separate accounts for all program expenditures involving the use of Bank loan proceeds. These
accounts, as well as the trust fund account for PROPAMAR, will be audited annually by external
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audits will be carried out in conjunction with
the annual financial audit for the overall project, procedures for which are detailed in the main text
of the Staff Appraisal Report. All audit costs will be financed by AdM.



Annex G
Page 13 of 15
Appendix 1
Summary of Preliminary Results of the
Willingness-to-Pay study in
Rural Areas of the State of Monagas
1. In July 1995, a willingness-to-pay survey was carried out in a sample of 15 rural communities in the State
of Monagas, covering approximately 900 households in three zones of economic activity: the cattle region, the
petroleum region, and the farning region. Focus group meetings were held with ten to twenty residents each,
to obtain preliminary information on current water supply conditions, satisfaction with the service, willingness
to pay for improvements in the service, and interest of users in running their own community water system.
This allowed for a first draft of the questionnaire to be prepared and subsequently tested in a pilot survey. The
final questionnaire included six different versions, corresponding to two different scenarios for water
improvement and three different average monthly prices per household for each scenario. The first scenario
(Option 1) proposed an improvement of water quantity to guarantee at least 12 hours of water each day.
Prices for this option were Bs 500, Bs 1,000, and Bs 2,000. The second scenario was presented as more
expensive than Option I and proposed an improvement of water quantity and quality to guarantee safely
potable water for 24 hours per day. Prices for this option were Bs 1,000, Bs 2,000 and Bs 4,000.
2. The survey showed that water supply is by far the highest priority for the sample households compared to
other community problems listed (education, streets, etc.). Only 16% of respondents receive water 24 hours
per day in the summer and 31% in the winter, yet the quality of water and its impact on health was of more
concern than its available quantity, which was deemed reasonably satisfactory. Ncvertheless, the majority of
respondents drink water directly from the tap (73% in the summer and 67% in the winter). The rest boil it,
filter it, or "purify" it by settling the turbidity in a storage container. Household incomes were low overall,
with 25% at a median of Bs 16,000/month, 50% at a median Bs 32,000/month, and 25% at a median of Bs
70,000/month. This explains why only 9% of the respondents buy bottled water, with an average monthly
expenditure of Bs 1,600 in the summer and Bs 1,400 in the winter.
3. The study concluded that willingness to pay in rural areas of the state of Monagas is quite high, with 80%
of the respondents willing to use the system with Option 2 improvements at an average monthly price of Bs
2,000 (US$ 140 per year). Seventy-five percent of respondents would pay Bs 3,000 per month (US$ 210 per
year). These amounts are of the same magnitude as those charged for well-run systems in industrialized
countries. Almost two-thirds of respondents chose Option 2 over Option I and over 80% of those respondents
said they would use it and pay the corresponding average monthly fee. Demand for improvement was lowest
in the agricultural zone. The econometric analysis showed that major determinants of willingness to pay for
Option I were income, education, the cost to users of Option 2, satisfaction with existing water supply service,
and the desire for operating the improved system by the community itself. All five variables had the expected
coefficient signs for Option 2 and were statistically significant at the 1% level, indicating that survey results
are highly plausible.
4. The survey also asked sample households about their current participation in water supply management
and their interest in becoming more involved. Only 11% of respondents said their community made repairs on
its own, while the remainder stated that outside assistance was usually sought. Lack of funds and knowledge
for repairs were given as reasons to explain reliance on outside sources. However, 27 % of respondents stated
that it was highly probable that their community could run its own system, and 41 % said it could maybe do so.
The majority (56%) said that the community would want to run its own system, and 58% thought the service
would be better as a result. Fifty-nine percent thought that it would not be too difficult to serve on the
community's water committee, and 77% were somewhat or very interested in doing so.



Appendix 2              Cost Estimates for Rehabilitation of Rural Water
Infrastructure in the State of Monagas 
(in millions of Bolivares)
MAINTENANCE WORKS
CI.EANINGOFWELLS  ACISSTA    ISOLIVAR  CARIPE  CEDENO           MUNICIPALITIES                                                                         TOTAL
|    _Cl.EANING OF W_EI_        ACOSTA  I BOLIVAR I  CARiPL  |CEDENO  I EZEQUIEL Z. I MATURIN                       PIAR    I PUNCERES         LIB£RTADOR  I  SOTILLO
NO. OF WATER SYSTEMS                     I   1        61           01                             2j          731          131              57 1                             23               138
POPULATION                             175-    3,3531              01       2,8801              6351      24,696       4,4401          2,0701            2,5741          4,130            44,933
ESTIMATED COST                Cleaning (Equipments transportation, Extraction & Installation Pumping Systenis; Injection of Air and Chemical Products, Technical Report).
Bs .300.000,00 each x 138 Populated Centers                                                                                                                  41 40
TlOTAI. iN`Vi7  E NTr tN M n-.:                                         :l                                                                                                                   14
EQIJIPMENTS INSTALLATION
j[ INSTALLATION OF            h                                                               MUNICIPALITIES                                                                         TOTAL
CIILORINATORS          I ACOSFrA   I BOLIVAR I  CARII'I          Cl.D)kO    E1I.ZEQUIEL Z. F MATURIN i   PIAR    i PUNCIERES  i L113ERTADOR  i   SOTILLOt.
JNO. OF WATER SYSTEMS                    18            6           21           22                 2           73           IR               7                 7              27              201
|POPUI ATiON                          5,277        3,355        7,955        7,639              635       24,6961        6,4(10          2,613|           2,574           4,283            65,427
ESnMATED COST                 Chlorine Gas Dosage, Centrifugal of Pump of 1,5 II.P+ Cylinder (I 50 Lbs.) - 120,000.00+100,000.00+ 90,000.00 x 138                                           42.78
I lypoechlorinator ' 80,000.00 cach x 63 Populated Centers                                                                                                     5.04
[TrOTAL INVESTMETNT IN MD..:                                                                                                                                                                 47.2il
EQUIPMENTS INSTALLATION
CONSTRUCTION OF                                                                           MUNICIPALITIES
FILTERS               ACOSTA  I BOLIVAR  I  CARIPI.  I CEDESO  I EZEQUIELZ.  I MATURIN                     PIAR       PUNCERES  |.IHBERTADOR  I  SOTILL.O
NO. OF WATER SYSTEMS    |               18|           61          21|            0                21           61           101             II                5              22| 10
i'OPtlLATION                 |       52771        3,3 51        7-9551       3.158              635         1,5521       3,2441           260              1,6241          3694            30,754
ESTIMATED COST                Filter (Capacity = 5 liters/second ) = Bs 1,500,000.00 each x 76 Populated Centers
Filters (Capacity = 10 literstsecond) =Bs.2,500,000.00 each x 25 Populated Centers                                                                            62.50
TTAL INVE.ST'M NT IN Mll-.:                                                                                                                                                               165
EQUIPMENTS INSTALLATION
REIIABILITATION F         IL                                                              MUNICPALITI FS                                                                          TOTAL    i
FILTERS            lir ACOSTA   I BOLIVAR    CARiFPE         CEDENO  I EZEQUIELZ. I MATURIN | IiAR    I PUNCERES  I L113ERTADOR  I  SOTILLO(
INO. OF WATER SYSTEMS         |           01           01           01           01                01           21           01              oj                21
FPOPULATION                   |           o1           0l           o1          0o                 01       1,6561           ol              oj              950|            589             II.251
|TOTAL tNVFsTM ENT oN t  ned dl  h
-Approximitlely 50% ofthe needs deailod ere will be financedontLhe basis ofcommunity dermand, as described in the annex.



FACInJTIeS
11                                        MEl~~~~~~~~~~~NtNIULPwALITIES                                           l     (1A
RESERVOIRS  LA ACOSTA  I BOLIVAR    CARIPF.   CEDFNO LEz NQtj:L7 IP MATURIN I  PIAR                      PUNI'ERFS    [TF/ERIrALOR      SOTILLO j
|0 OF WATER SYST0LMS1I                                                 2I                          L                         I              0             9              28
POPULATION                          0         215           C        350              J        I 20       I 39            54S              (            685          4.96
p:STIMATl:D ('OS r         R10.soio0. (C...o,y  s/ lzI.r)  Ih /11(1  60 o.ch 9 PopIl,led CLnkro                                                                       45 M
|  ___   Korvoo, (C.iy - 40.) hicn) - ID 4 MJW.LMD0Xe) h  I1 I'opWl 19    (Rnfl.,                                                          76 0C
TroTAL FNVESNIENT IN MB..                                                                                                                                            121 00
MAINTENANCE WORKS
REILASIIJTATION         ACOSTA  I BOLIVAR    CARIPE  I CEDENO| EZEQUIEL Z    MATURIN   RPIAR   |PUNCERS   I IBERTADOR                      SOTIlli O
N  OFWATERSYSTEMS                   0                                                                                                      21 04 
01         001 01                 01              01                                                                 0           221C
ESTIMAl ED COST            Rd.b,l6u n = B. I. 5O 0C20 cmh . 4 PB.Alpldd C,oI-                                                                                          6 0C
TOlAL INVESTMEINT IN MS.:                                                                                                                                =6 Z           0S
FACIImES
NTOK                                                                  MUNICIPAILMES                                                                TOTAL      I
RFA=LTTAnON          | ACOSTA  I BOLIVAR I CARIPE  I CEDENO  I EZEQUIEL Z. I MATURIN I    PIAR   I PUNCERFS  I LIBERTADOR                  SOTTLLO
O OFWATERSYSTEMS                   2                                 22              0l          61         01            0l              21            2              20
POUAION                                                           2 66| 29| S3| S0  l     3066           ol            OF           I ISu|         711           9.4061
1   6691      2.093)1      83131      ST0               01       0661           l0                        ,8171
STIMATED COST             DLnUbuc,on P.p. (3 PISg) = B. 7  0000 / 1. 20.OD n0  I                                                                                    140 moo
Ho.  C oo. (Plpn. of /2 Pu4) Connd,ln F         eu ) B. 10 00  00    h67S H                                                                16.7S|
TrOTAL INVESTMENT IN MS.:                                                                                                                                  ,         156.7S
FACnrLmEs
r   CONSTRLCICON OFr |                                                           MUNICIPALITIES                                                         ll TOTAI.   |
OPERATORS SHKDS         ACOSTA    BOLIVAR I CARIPE    CEDENO    EZEQUIEL Z  I MATURN I  PIAR    I PUNCERES  I LIBERTADOR                    SOTILLO                   I
O oFw ATER sYsEMsl                                    l              41                                                                    21                          3
P_PULATION              |         0           0          01      1.334             0°       2.0481      1.7071         S411            088            23           7.s41
________                                                                                                                                               05~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0   
|ESTIMATED COST            She (A,..=20,00.m2Apo-)=B25.OD0DOO-hx30PpIIdCn.t-                                                                                           0 7S
1 OTAL INVESTMENT IN MBD.:                                                                                                                                             0.7511
EO             7
MAINTENANCE WORKS
||  REILWIIJTATIONO>'  ||                                    ~~~~~~~~~~MUNl('llAUlIE I P.'sA
WATERINTAKES           ACOSfA   I BOLIVAR I CARIPE  I CEDENO  I EZEQUIELZ  | MATURIN I  PIAR   I PUNCEROS| LIlFRTAIOR                      SOTILLO  [l         lI
|ghNo OFWATERSYSTEMS               7          0           8           41             0          0           0                             0                            2
||POPULATION            |      2.337          0l      3.170        823              0           0          0            260              0             0           6.5
IIE sTIMATE D COST       Reh.b,l.uo.t  13,2.D2000  rDo oo cwh . 20 PorNl .td Cer1                                                                                   40
ToTAL INVESTMENT IN MB4.:                                                                                                                                   [0
FAC=UTIES
NEW WELIS                                                                  MUNICIPALITIES                  I E            ETOTAL E[
ll CONSTRDCTIO                                                EFNOMAUk N  || ACOSTA   B OLIVAR I CARIE|CDN | EZEQUTEL Z  I MAU IN   PIAR   I PUNCERES  I LIBERTADOR !SOTILLO  "S
NO OFWATERSYSTEMS    [              0           "           0          0               3i                     4             2              0             724
||POPLILATION             0|0                               0          0 o. 56                 1,780       1.870          600              1000                       6,8so
|STIMATEDCOST              Perf-o.u Eq.yp-ni. E           Ceul ficLo.,Cu,oonofR..rvo-,,  Wa.w Spply & Nawork D"bul.on(l.1i oI.1-o f Coo.no,-.n)
B. I s0 o    0.o0 .ch, 24 Pop.Jlod C.ntm                                                                                                  350 Il1                                    147
ITOTAL IESTMENT IN MB,                                                                                                                                               360.0]
CLASSIFICATION            |B. Million USS Mill,.O
HAS EFEQLIPM ENTS               
t|CnTLWORKS                           l      291          21
LIOTAL                                1      el|         56|






Annex H
Page 1 of 23
VENEZUELA
WATER AND SEWERAGE DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
National Institutional Component
Background
1.    The water supply and sanitation (WS&S) sector in Venezuela has undergone a
major restructuring over the past five years.  In spite of these efforts, the results have
proven insufficient and the sector as a whole remains "de facto" centralized with a complex
organizational structure. Many of the water-related agencies suffer from ill-defined and
overlapping statutory responsibilities and an undeveloped regulatory framework, private
sector participation remains limited and federal subsidies for operating costs as well as for
capital investment are required due to low tariffs, inadequate commercial practices and
inefficient administration that commonly result in deficient metering, partial billing and low
collection. Water resources management and wastewater management are also centralized
and the few experiences of management at the river basin level have remained fully
dependent on the central government and lacked financial viability.
2.    The current administration has given high importance to the water and sanitation
sector because of the acute problems in service delivery and the heavy fiscal burden of
present centralized management. The Government's policy for the sector, articulated in a
letter to the Bank, has as its key elements: i) accelerating the decentralization process and
building local institutional capacity for management; ii) developing a modem institutional
and regulatory framework; iii) improving cost-recovery and achieving financial self-
sufficiency; iv) increasing sector investment to an average annual 4% of total public
investment, concentrating on rehabilitation, expanded sewerage and treatment coverage and
greater access by the poor to WS&S services; and v) improving efficiency and involving the
private sector in service delivery. The planned rehabilitation investment projects at the
estate and regional levels, including this project in the state of Monagas, will be
supported by the building of national and local institutional capacity and the improving of
technical and managerial skills, regulation, operation and maintenance of the services.
3.    The proposed modernization and improvement of the WS&S services in
Venezuela require: a) a sound regulatory framework and the strengthening of the national
water related agencies; b) sector development and decentralization at the regional level,
replicating the Monagas experience in other states, and c) improvement of sector wide
management and technical capacity. Similarly, the introduction of national standards to
be developed under the project and the adoption of state and municipal regulations and
new commercial rules will demand specialized support to fulfill the legal roles and a
better social understanding of the new  sectoral reality.  For these reasons, the



Annex H
Page 2 of 23
Government has requested the support of the Bank for institution building in the sector in
the context of the proposed project. The project's National Institutional Component,
which will be co-financed with the InterAmerican Development Bank (IDB), includes
financial support to assist the Government in carrying out its sectoral strategy.
Program Objectives
4.    To assist and promote the modernization of the Venezuelan water supply and
sanitation sector, the National Institutional Component will finance consultant services
and equipment to HIDROVEN, in order to:
(a)   assist in the adoption and development of a Regulatory Framework
proposal;
(b)   create and/or strengthen national sector institutions;
(c)   increase technical and managerial capacity at the national, as well as local
level to regulate, plan and operate these services;
(d)   stimulate a broad social support for the modernization of WS&S, and the
rational use of the water resources;
(e)   prepare training and dissemination material; and
(f)   facilitate the preparation of four projects, to duplicate the model developed
in Monagas.
Content of the National Institutional Component
5.    The National Institutional Component will support three different programs:
Technical Assistance Program, TAP
National Training Program, NTP
*     Sector Decentralization Program, SDP
6.    The Technical Assistance Program will assist in the implementation of the
Regulatory Framework which is currently under design with support from a PHRD Grant
from the Government of Japan and the Bank. It will finance consultant services and
equipment for:
(a)   institutional strengthening of national sector institutions (HIDROVEN and
the regulatory agency or agencies to be defined), including: (i) a study to
define the organizational structure of the sector according to the proposed
Regulatory Framework;  (ii) technical assistance for the Regulatory
Agencies and HIDROVEN and (iii) implementation of a Management
information system in HIDROVEN and the preparation of an inventory of
basic sectoral information needed to plan, regulate and provide technical
assistance to sector institutions;



Annex H
Page 3 of 23
(b)   preparation of sectoral norms and standards; and
(c)    development and implementation of general policies for: (i) management
of shared water resources and related infrastructure; (ii) management of
rural water systems and (iii) institutional organization and promotion of
private sector participation.
(d)   development and implementation of a national Management Information
System for the sector
7.    Additionally, this subcomponent will finance studies, equipment and related
consulting services to support the design, creation and functioning of a Users
Hydrographic Confederation (CH) for the management of water resources in the Amana
and Guarapiche river basins, in the state of Monagas, as a demonstration case. The design
will be based on the idea that effective water resources management is best achieved
through an organization that: (i) is given the authority to establish and implement a water
resources plan; (ii) meets the goal of financial sustainability; and (iii) is locally based,
represents the users and stakeholders in a river basin and responds and is financially
dependent from them. Since the main role of the CH will be to develop and implement
management criteria and principles to plan for the allocation and protection of water
resources in this area, this sub-component will also provide support to the CH for the
development of a basic information systems for these river basins and for the preparation
of this management plan and for setting up the necessary institutional capacity to
implement it. Preliminary work for the design of the CH has been carried out with the
help of a grant from the Spanish government.
8.    The National Training Program will:
(a)   increase technical capacity at the national and local government level in
order to promote the implementation of a modem regulatory and
institutional framework;
(b)   improve technical and managerial skills of professionals and decision
makers of the WS&S sector; and
(c)   stimulate appreciation and understanding among society of the importance
of rational use and conservation of water resources.
9.    The Sector Decentralization Program will finance the preparation of four new
full rehabilitation projects replicating the model developed in Monagas. The Program will
include:
(a)   preparation of investment plans for the physical rehabilitation of the
systems and



Annex H
Page 4 of 23
(b)   technical, legal, institutional and financial studies necessary to define the
decentralization projects according to the model developed in Monagas.
10.   These three programs are presented in detail in Appendices 1, 2 and 3 to this
annex.
Component Implementation Arrangements.
11.   HIDROVEN would be responsible for carrying out the National Institutional
Component through a sub-project management unit. This unit will be created under the
supervision of HIDROVEN's Presidency and will be responsible for:
(a)   preparing final proposals and Terms of Reference for the Program's
activities and their submission for the Bank's approval;
(b)   procurement of consultant services and equipment needed for the
execution of each Program;
(c)   supervising and evaluating the consultants and services provided;
(d)   preparing progress reports to be presented to Bank's and contracting
yearly and overall evaluation studies of this component;
(e)   administering the component's execution;
(f)   providing support and supervision for the execution of the regional
rehabilitation project in Monagas and for the sector decentralization
program in four additional regional water companies; and
(g)   overall project coordination and monitoring.
12.   The unit will be under the direction of a General Manager. It will be staffed with
specialists hired as consultants to advise the General Manager on legal and institutional
development issues.  Additional staffing for project management assistance to the
General Manager will be provided through a consultant services contract that will include
professional and support services and related equipment needs. Financing of these
consultant services will be provided through the Bank loan at an estimated cost of US$
480,000 per year, to be contracted on a bi-annual basis. Submission to the Bank of terms
of reference for the management assistance contract was a condition of negotiations. The
signing of these contracts will be a condition of effectiveness. Agreements were reached
during negotiations on: (i) the personnel and expertise that HIDROVEN should maintain
in the sub-project management unit; and (ii) the content of the support to be provided
through the hiring of specialized consultant and through the consultant service contract
for project management assistance, which should be hired and maintained by
HIDROVEN.
13.   The component's Programs will be revised on a yearly basis for the purposes of
implementing any necessary adjustments and for monitoring purposes. Yearly (after the
second year) and overall monitoring studies will be contracted by the sub-project



Annex H
Page S of 23
management unit to specialized consultants to monitor each sub-component development
and the achievement of the specific objectives specified in this annex.
Component Cost.
14.   The total estimated cost for the National Institutional Component is US$
14.000.000. US$ 4.580.000 would correspond to the implementation of the Technical
Assistance Program (of which US$ 2,050,000 correspond to the studies for the creation
and support of the Users Confederation in Monagas), US$ 3.210.000 for training
activities (courses, seminars, dissemination events, public awareness campaign and
documents production), US$ 4.200.000 for the support of sector decentralization and US$
2.010.000 for the financing of the consultant services support to the sub-project
management unit and the evaluation studies. Table I summarizes the objectives, goals,
instruments and costs of the National Institutional Component to be supported under the
Project.



Annex H
Page 6 of 23
Table 1.- Summary Costs of the National Institutional Component.
(thousands of US$)
Program sub-                   Tasks                   Local    Foreign     Total   Finance
components
Technical      * Institutional strengthening of the      990          560     1,550    IDB
Assistance        regulatory agency and HIDROVEN
Program        * Preparation of sectoral norms and        50          220       270    WB
standards
* Development and implementation of       260         210       470    WB
general policies
* Implementation of the Management                    240       240    IDB
Information System
* Design, creation and support of a       650        1,400     2,050    WB
Confederation of users for the
management of water resources in the
state of Monagas
TOTAL    1,920         2,660     4,580
National       * Support for implementation of the       380          180       560
Training          Regulatory Framework
Program        * Managerial and technical training       750          300     1,050
* Users awareness campaign               1,600                 1,600
TOTAL    2,730           480     3,210    IDB
Support to     * Institutional Assessment                400                   400
the Decentra-  * Support to commercial and               200          420       620
lization          management activities,
Process "Pre-  * Preparation of the rehabilitation      1,820         860     2,680
investm."        investment program
.(Support for four   * Economic and financial analysis   100          400       500
other states will be
provided by IDB
under the Caracas                           TOTAL    2,520          1,680     4,200    WB
project with
aproximately the
same budget)
Support to     * Four years financing of consultants    1,810                 1,810
Sub-Project   * Component evaluation studies                          200       200
Management
Unit                                        TOTAL    1,810            200     2,010    WB
TOTAL                                                   8,980       5,020    14,000
World Bank Financed                     5,240        3,760     9,000    WB
IDB Financed                            3,740        1,260     5,000  1IDB



Annex H
Page 7 of 23
Appendix-1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM                           --
Program objectives
1.    The Technical Assistance Program will: (i) assist in the implementation of the
Regulatory Framework which is currently under design with support from the Bank; (ii)
assist in the creation and/or strengthening of the national institutional sector organizations
and regulatory agencies defined according to the regulatory framework proposed and (iii)
implement a management information system needed to plan, coordinate, regulate and
provide technical assistance to all sector institutions and develop general policies and
sectoral norms and standards.
Program activities
2.    The specific activities to be supported under the TAP include the financing of
consultant services and equipment for:
(a)   Institutional strengthening of national sector institutions (HIDROVEN
and/or the mational regulatory agency or agencies to be defined). This
sub-program would support:
(i)    A study that will define the organizational structure of the sector
according to the proposed Regulatory Framework, designing: (1)
the Regulatory Agencies at both central and regional levels,
including organizational structure and budgetary, technical and
human resources so as to ensure their proper functioning along
with an action plan for their creation and implementation and (2)
the organizational structure of HIDROVEN in such a way that it is
able to carry out its functions of planning, financial support and
promotion of decentralization and modernization of the sector.
(ii)   Technical assistance for the Regulatory Agencies and HIDROVEN
in the design and implementation of policies and in administrative
procedures in the following matters: (1) budget formulation and
control, (2) human resources policy, and (3) accounting and
finances.
(iii)   Implementation  of a management information  system  in
HIDROVEN to strengthen its capacity to monitor technical and
economic aspects of WS&S services delivery. It will also include



Annex H
Page 8 of 23
the preparation of an inventory of basic sectoral information
needed to plan, regulate and provide technical assistance to sector
institutions.
(b)   Preparation of sectoral norms and standards. This sub-program would
support the preparation of technical standards applicable to the sector. It
would also support the preparation of model by-laws and regulations that
would be needed by states and municipalities to complement the national
regulatory framework, including those dealing with the design and
execution of investment projects, operation and maintenance of water
supply services, service quality and users rights and responsibilities.
(c)   Development and implementation of general policies for:
(i)    Management of shared resources.  This would finance:  (i)
preparation of an inventory of shared resources (available water
resources, present uses and estimated demand, infrastructure for
the production and treatment of potable water and the management
of wastewaters) and  (ii) development of a model for the
institutional framework, financing and regulations necessary for
the decentralized management of these resources.
(ii)    Management of rural water systems. This would finance: (i)
preparation of an inventory (including an identification of the
different types) of rural water systems; (ii) development and of
various models for operation and maintenance, community
participation and financing for future investments; and (iii)
execution of a national willingness-to-pay study for rural areas.
(iii)    Promotion of private sector participation. This would finance a
study of institutional arrangements possible at a regional level in
order to promote the creation of local water companies and the
development of a general policy for the promotion of private sector
participation in the management of WS&S services, including the
preparation of models contracts, regulations and bidding
documents and procedures for: (i) concessioning complete water
and sewerage systems;  (ii)  performance-based management
contracts and operation contracts; and (iii) maintenance contracts,
including appropriate supervision and control procedures.
(d)   Studies and support for the design, creation and functioning of a Users
Hydrographic Confederation for the management of water resources, as a
demonstration case in the Amana and Guarapiche river basins in the State
of Monagas.



Annex H
Page 9 of 23
Program cost
3.    The total cost of the TAP is estimated at US$ 4.580.000. The financing of
individual consultants and firms would amount to US$ 2.250.000. US$ 280.000 have
been budgeted for the purchase of computer equipment and software needed for the
execution of the Program. Table 2 summarizes the specific goals, instruments and costs
of the TAP.



Annex H
Page 10 of 23
Table 2.-Technical Assistance Program.
Estimated (thousands of US$)
Activity                         Exec.        Instruments                   Local  Foreign    Total
Period
Institutional Strengthening                                   Total costs:    990       560    1,550
*  Institutional Design Study.   3-10/1996    Hiring of a consulting firm              250      250
Design of Regulatory Agencies              experienced in the design
proposal, design of                        and development of
HIDROVEN organization                      institutions, specifically in
structure and final organization          regulatory agencies and
proposal and Action Plan for               WS&S systems.
institutional strengthening
*  Consultation workshop (2)     11/1996      Hiring of four short-term        10        10      20
consultants
*  Design and implementation of  3/97-3/1998   Hiring of a consulting firm    940      300    1,240
policies, procedures and                  (Part 11). It could be the
instruments for management,               same consultant firm as the
planning, budgeting. financing,           executor of the Institutional
procurement, tariffs , etc. and            Study. The Firm will be in
assessment of required                     charge of coordinating the
computer facilities and                   strengthening program
software
*  Purchase and installation of  9-11/1997    Purchase of 10 computers         40                40
computer equipment and                    with corresponding printers
software                                  and basic software
General policies                                              Total costs:    260      210      470
*  Execution of the following    9/97-3/1998  Hiring of consultants or
studies:                                  firms, one for each study,
1. Policy for shared resources                experienced in the                        50       50
2. Policy for rural water systems             corresponding matter                       60      60
3. Policy for private sector part..                                           260       100     360
Sectoral Norms and Standards                                  Total costs:     50      220      270
*  Execution of the following    1/97-12/98   Hiring of consultants or
studies:                                  firms, one for each study,
1. Technical standards                        experienced in the                       220      220
2. Users rights and duties                    corresponding matter             50                50



Annex H
Page 11 of 23
Activity                        Exec.       Instruments                   Local  Foreign   Total
Period                                    -                 -
Management Information System                               Total costs:              240     240
* Design of the proposed MIS    01-03/1997  Contracting of a consultant or            150     150
firm with experience in
setting up information
systems.The contracted firm
will also be in charge of
collecting data
* Consultation workshop         10/1997      Contracting of two short term             20      20
consultants for the
consultation worksl:op
* MIS's implementation,         10/97-       Acquisition of computer                   70      70
acquisition of computer      5/1997       hardware and software and
hardware and software and                 related technical assistance
gathering of data and basic               for operation of
sectoral information                      HIDROVEN's MIS.
Hydrographic Confederation                                  Total costs:   650      1,400   2,050
* Design and financial evaluation   1/96-    Contracting of a consultant              400     400
of the Users Hydrographic     12/1997     firm experienced in the
Confederation for the                     design and development of
management of water resources             water resources management
in Monagas                                models
* Basic information system      1/96-       Contracting of a consultant     400      300      700
12/1997     firm and installation of a
regional GIS
* Water Resources Management   1/98-         Contracting of a consultant    250       700     950
Plan and Model               12/1999     firm and aquisition of
equipment for monitoring
and computer hardware
TOTAL                                                                   1,920    2,660   4,580



Annex H
Page 12 of 23
Alppendix 2
NATIONAL TRAINING PROGRAM
Program objective
1.    The modernization process of the WS&S service in Venezuela must overcome
two main human resources impediments. The first one is related to the lack of technical
and managerial skills of decision-makers responsible for sector's regulations, norms and
policies and the managers and technical personnel responsible for the operation and
administration of the services. The second impediment to be overcome has to do with the
citizens' awareness with regard to the necessity of rational use of water resources and
their commitment to pay in accordance to the quality of the service.
2.    The main purpose of the proposed National Training Program (NTP) would be to
overcome impediments to the modernization of Venezuela's water sector. The NTP has
three objectives:  (i) to build support for the new regulatory framework and the
Venezuelan modernization process; (ii) to train a nucleus of professionals and decision-
makers in basic technical and managerial concepts of WS&S services; and (iii) to
stimulate appreciation and understanding of the importance of rational use and
conservation of water resources.
Content of the NTP
3.    To accomplish these objectives, an integrated training program will be financed
by the project. The NTP will be organized and carried out through three sub-programs
defined according to the beneficiaries:
* Support for the new regulatory framework and sectoral modernization process
*  Managerial and technical training and
* Users awareness campaign.
Sub-program I. Support for the new regulatory framework and sectoral
modernization process
4.    This sub-program is oriented towards promoting the approval and implementation
of the new Regulatory Framework and its relates policies, norms and standards, in
accordance to the results of the study carried out in the Technical Assistance Program.
This implies: (i) the approval of legal reforms at the National Congress, and the approval
of resolutions and by-laws by the Executive branch, and (ii) the approval of municipal
laws and regulations in accordance with the proposed Normative and Regulatory



Annex H
Page 13 of 23
Framework. The support activities will include: (i) field visits and study tours; (ii)
international seminars and (iii) special workshops.
5.    Field visits and study tours. These activities will include four field visits and
study tours to countries with regulatory frameworks that could be considered as a model
for the Venezuela WS&S sector modernization process. Each visit will last ten days and
will be attended by about three members of Congress and the Municipal Councils, one
official from the MARNR and one from HIDROVEN. The participants from the
Legislative Branch and the MARNR will be selected on the basis of their influence and
leadership in the implementation of the Regulatory Framework. The representative of
HIDROVEN should be an expert in this field and will act as a mediator in the discussion
process.
6.    International Seminar.   This activity comprises the organization of an
international seminar in Venezuela for the purpose of disseminating and discussing the
tendencies and state of the art in the field of WS&S Regulatory Frameworks. About sixty
professionals and authorities from Venezuela and forty representatives from abroad will
attend the Seminar. Sixty percent of the Venezuelan participants will represent the
Legislative Branch either at the National or the Regional level and the remaining forty
percent will include authorities from the Executive Branch and WS&S companies.
Priority will be given to the attendance of Council Members and authorities from those
regions where the implementation of the Regulatoly Framework is already under
discussion and where the transfer process of the service is underway.
7.    Special Workshops. These will provide an opportunity for thorough discussion
regarding the submitted proposals and their consequence on the future development of the
sector.  Ten two-day workshops are proposed for an attendance of about fifteen
participants each: eight from the legislative branch, four from the executive branch and
three consultants who will coordinate the discussions. These workshops will be held in
different regions: two at the National Congress, three in Caracas Metropolitan Area
Municipalities and five at regional level.
Sub-program II. Managerial and Technical Training
8.    This sub-program is oriented towards a short-term training of a nucleus of
professionals and decision-makers regarding basic concepts of water supply and
sanitation services management, and towards increasing technical capacity at both state
and local government level to plan, design, and operate modern WS&S services.
9.    In order to accomplish these objectives, HIDROVEN  will implement an
integrated training program  consisting of:  (i) executive seminars;  (ii) intensive
specialization courses and (iii) introductory courses.



Annex H
Page 14of23
10.   Executive Seminars (ES). The ES are designed primarily for the top managers of
the WS&S companies. The main objective of the ES is to introduce the fundamentals of
modem management models and their applications to water supply services. The ES will
consist of four two day sessions, three of them for the presentation of theoretical
knowledge and the fourth as an in-house workshop in order to apply the instruments
delivery during prior sessions. Details of the sessions are as follows:
Session 1. General Concepts: This session will cover: (i) a brief description of
managerial techniques and their application to public services with emphasis on
the water sector, (ii) strategic planning of service delivery, including private
sector participation, (iii) analysis of the institutional arrangements, and (iv)
solving of internal and external conflicts including company municipalization,
concession and regulatory framework.
Session 2. Finance and Cost Recovery: This session will include: (i)introduction
to cost analysis, cost recovery practices and commercial principles, (ii) analysis
of financing alternatives, (iii) financial instruments and their application in WS&S
companies, (iv) budget formulation and control, and (v) tariff structure and
overcoming subsidy practices.
Session 3. Presentation of Real Problems. This session will be oriented to: (i)
case-studies dealing with managerial and financial problems in water services
companies, and (ii) analysis of altematives and problem solving strategies.
Session 4. In-house workshop.  The in-house workshop will be executed
individually to each of the selected operating companies. Priority will be given to
those companies already involved in a rehabilitation program, privatization
process and/or to those having obtained municipal concession for their operation.
This include a two day work session in the company premises . The specialized
experts will help management to identify their main restrictions as well as to
design appropriate strategies for overcoming these.
11.   Intensive Specialization Courses (ISC). These courses will be aimed at training
middle management personnel and technicians of water supply enterprises either in the
new regional companies or in the current HIDROS. Through the ISC, it will be possible
to deliver specialized training program in the most important technical issues of the
WS&S service. The main objectives of the ISC will be to increase the understanding and
technical capacity of personnel in WS&S companies and of assuring their skills to apply
new technologies, operational procedures, standards, and regulations in the delivery of
the service.
12.   The ISC will comprise specialized courses available individually, each with a
duration of about one week. During each course, several examples of local situations will



Annex H
Page 15 of 23
be presented and discussed. A provisional list of the ISC that will be offered and their
specific contents includes the following:
Preventive Maintenance Workshop including: (i) importance of preventive
maintenance in the effectiveness of the services and its costs, (ii)  design
techniques and coordination of preventive maintenance in WS&S service, (iii)
planning, implementation, follow-up, and  evaluation  of the  preventive
maintenance programs.
Inventory Control Workshop that includes: (i) inventory as a key instrument to
ensure operational effectiveness and cost control, (ii) standard inventory
techniques in WS&S companies, and (iii) frequent problems and solutions.
Laboratory Analysis Workshop including: (i) identification of main water-
polluting agents, waste water disposal, (ii) laboratory test and analysis most
frequently used in quality control of water supply and sanitation, (iii) upgrading
practices for industrial safety, (iv) case studies for the WS&S sector.
Formulation and evaluation of projects including:  (i) demand studies and
projections; (ii) techniques for identification and assessment of water projects;
(iii) methods of project evaluation and analysis of alternatives; and (iv) case
studies for the WS&S sector.
Commercialization Workshop including: (i) basic principles involved in the
commercialization of public services, (ii) customer services (iii) identification and
reduction of unaccounted-for-water, (iv) design and application of tariff
structures, and (v) measuring and billing principles.
Introductory Workshop for Managerial Techniques. This course is oriented
towards providing middle management personnel with the management
techniques and principles most commonly applied in public service companies
with emphasis on WS&S service. These include: (i) a brief description of
managerial techniques and their application, (ii) strategic planning of the service,
including private sector participation, (iii) institutional assessment, and (iv)
conflict solving and case studies.
13.   Introductory Courses (IC). These courses will be aimed at training members of
Regulatory Agencies, personnel of MARNR and other related central government
organizations and local or municipal staff responsible for the WS&S services. The IC
will yield a common basis of knowledge that will improve the decision making process
regarding the regulations and policies related to water supply services.



Annex H
Page 16 of 23
14.   These courses will last five days with a maximum of 16 participants in each
course and will comprise three parts: general concepts, operational matters, and strategic
issues. Details of the different parts are as follow:
General Concepts: This area will cover the following: (i) the situation of the
WS&S services in Venezuela and its main figures, (ii) sanitation problems, (iii)
socio-economic considerations of the WS&S sector's critical situation, (iv) the
Venezuelan Water and Sewerage Modernization Process: advances, issues and
action plan.
Operational Matters: This part will include: (i) description of the main sources of
water production and basic operational aspects of water supply systems, (ii)
unaccounted-for-water and conservation practices, (iii) waste water disposals and
environmental considerations, and (iv) operational costs and definition of tariffs.
Strategic issues: (I) cost recovery and self financing of the services,  (ii)
Regulatory Framework, norms and standards, (iii) decentralization and transfer of
responsibilities, and (iv) concepts of privatization and concessions, including
advantages and disadvantages.
Sub-program III. User Awareness Campaign (UAC)
15.   This sub-program is oriented towards promoting a broad understanding of the
main objectives of the Venezuelan WS&S sector's modernization process, and towards
building public support for the critical issues include in this process, such as rational use
and conservation of water, cost-recovery and self-financing goals and customer service.
The UAC will be oriented to replace the general understanding of natural, cheap and
plentiful water supply for a new idea of water supply as an industrial, costly, and scarce
product, to promote water resources conservation and rational consumption, to explain
the need for cost-recovery practices and to inform the population about its duties and
rights as WS&S users.
16.   To accomplish these objectives, the UAC will include:
* a multimedia national campaign to inform the public about the modernization
process of the sector and to build support for critical issues, such as water
conservation, cost recovery and environmental concerns;
* preparation of printed and audiovisual material to be distributed in elementary
and high school centers, sport contests and ecological events; and
* short term seminars and workshops for journalist and other media workers.



Annex H
Page 17 of 23
17.   The design of activities to be undertaken as well as the proposal for campaign
material and events to be promoted will be done during the first six months of the
program. Latin American experience in these type of activities will be consulted. The
detailed proposal of the User Awareness Campaign as well as the chronogram of
execution and corresponding costs will be submitted for approval to the Bank prior to the
start of the program.



Annex H
Page 18 of 23
Table 3.1.- Support to the Approval of Regulatory Framework
Estimated costs (thousand US$)
m                                                               -
Activity                 Exec.      Instruments               No.             Local Foreign  Total
Period                               Participants
Field Trip 1            04/ '96    Consultant services to do  6 participants,    40    90       130
Colombia, Chile and     10/ '96    arrangements for:          four from the
Argentina. Two trips, ten         * Selection of participants   legislative
days each.                        * Work program, and         branch.
Field Trip 11           05/ '96     timetable in foreign      24 participants
England, France and     11/ '96     countries                 in total
Spain. Two trips, ten             Tours expenses
days each.
International Seminar    111 '97   Consultant services to do  70 nationals     120             120
The IS will be delivery in        arrangements for:           and 30 foreign
six sessions:                     * Detailed program, visitors  participants
1. Venezuela WS&S                   experts list and budget
moderniz. process,                provisions.
2. Proposed Regulatory            *  Administrative and
Framework                         logistic arrangements
3. Case studies
4. Regulatory Agencies            Ten short terms consultants                  30       30      60
5. Case studies                   as visitors experts and
6. Conclusions and                expositors
recommendations
Special Workshops       96-       Consultant services to do   15 participants   140    60      200
Ten two-days ws:        1998      arrangements for:          in each one:
* two national congress           * detailed workshops        8 legislative
-  three Caracas's                   program                  branch,
municipalities                 * administration            4 executive
* five regional                                               branch.
municipalities
Materials Production    08/ '96   Hiring a consultant for:                     50               50
Five brochures, 20 pages          * writing and editing the
each, with general                  brochures
infornation about the             * coordinating the printing
proposed Regulatory                 job
Framework. One at national
level and one for each of
four regions.
TOTAL                                                                         380      180     560



Annex H
Page 19 of 23
Table 3.2.- Managerial and Technical Training.
Thousands of US$
Activity                 Exec.       Instruments              No.          Local Foreign  Total
Period                               Participants
Executive Seminars (ES)            Consultant services        Fifteen top   150      100     250
specialized in training for    managers of
Four executive seminars   06/ 1996  management of public      HIDROS
of four two days sessions          services enterprises. The  and regional
each..                   10/ 1996  firm will be in charge of:  water
* design of detailed      companies
02/ 1997    program proposal         in each ES
* selection of participants
06/ 1997  * delivery of seminars     Total of 60
* evaluation and          top
adjustment.             managers
Intensive Specialization           Consultant services        Twenty        500      200     700
Courses (ISC)                      experienced in technical   participants
Eight ISC in following   06/ '96    training and delivery of  in each
matters: preventive     through   specialized technical       course
maintenance, inventory    06/ '98    courses. The Firm will be in
control, laboratory                charge of:                 Total of 160
analyst, formulation and           * design of detailed course  trained
project evaluation,                   proposals               persons
commercialization                  * selection of participants
workshop and                       * delivery of courses
introductory managerial            * evaluation and
techniques..                          adjustment
Introductory Courses               The same Firm in charge of  Twenty       100               100
(IC)                               Executive Seminars will be   participants
Three two-days IC        08/ '96    delivering the IC. This Firm  in each IC:
oriented to general WS&S  02/'97    will be in charge of:     members of
concepts, operational    08/'98    * design of courses        Reg. Agcy,
matters and strategic              * selection of participants   MARNR,
issues.                            * delivery of courses      municipal
staff, etc.
Total                                                                       750      300    1050



Annex H
Page 20 of 23
Table 3.3.- Users Awareness Campaign
Thousands of US$
Activity                      Exec.       Instruments         Local   Foreign      Total
Period
Users Awareness Campaign
(UAC)                        08/ '96    Hiring a consultant      200                   200
Multimedia national campaign   through    for designing the
oriented to inform about the  06/'97    campaign.
modernization process of the
sector and to build support for         Hiring an specialized   1.000                 1.000
critical issues such as water           firm in publicity for
conservation, cost recovery and         executing the
environmental concerns.                 campaign
Disemination Materials.      1997
Preparation of printing and             Hiring a firm or an      350                   350
audiovideo material to be               individual consul-
distributed in elementary and           tant to:
high school centers, sports             * design material
contest and environmental               * produce the video
events
Workshops for Journalist
Short term courses and                  Hiring a consultant       50                    50
workshops for journalist and           to be in charge of:
other media workers oriented to         * design of events
inform them about the WS&S              * logistic
modernization process and the              arrangements
importance of building public
support for the process
TOTAL                                                           1.600                 1.600



Annex H
Page 21 of 23
Appendix 3
SECTOR DECENTRALIZATION PROGRAM
Program objectives
1.    The Sector Decentralization Program (SDP) is designed as a project preparation
facility to replicate the organizational model implemented in the Monagas Rehabilitation
Project. The main objective of the SDP is to accomplish all the studies and activities
needed for the decentralization of at least four additional integrated water systems.
2.    The SDP will be executed by HIDROVEN with the support of the corresponding
regional company. Participation in this Program will be subject to:
* the creation of a decentralized regional water supply company that would take
over service responsibilities and management related to the respective integrated water
system from the corresponding HIDRO,
. provision of start-up working capital to the new company by the regional
government and the municipalities, equivalent to no less than 10% of the proposed
Technical Assistance Program and
*  the commitment to adopt cost-recovery practices and financial sustainability, and
to promote private sector participation.
Program activities
3.    The SDP would finance the followings activities:
(a)   Institutional design and support for: (i) a study of the organizational
structure and operational modality of the service, including commercial
practices, (ii) legal assistance in the transfer process of the service, assets,
liabilities, and personnel and in the preparation of draft regulations and
municipal laws, concession contracts, by-laws or any other legal documents
(to be provided directly by the EPU and financed under its budget), and
(iii) assets and liabilities appraisal, including labor liabilities.
(b)   Support in Managerial and Commercial Areas
(c)    Engineering Designs for the definition of the necessary investment
programs for the rehabilitation of the WS&S system including: (i)
identification and evaluation of the investment required for operational



Annex H
Page 22 of 23
rehabilitation, proposing priorities and an execution chronogram; (ii)
design of a program  for the unaccounted-for water;  (iii) detailed
engineering study for emergency rehabilitation work, and (iv) environment
analysis of the ecological implications of the project.
(d)   Economic and Financial Studies: (i) population willingness to pay for the
WS&S service, (ii) financial model of the company based on an estimation
of the demand and the operational costs of the service per system, (iii)
elaboration of the contract program to be negotiated by the interested
parties , and (iv) economic evaluation of the rehabilitation project.



Annex H
Page 23 of 23
Table 4.- Support to Decentralization Process
Thousands of US$
Activity                  Exec.       Instrument                     Local   Foreign  Total
period
Institutional Assistance   06/ '96
(i) Design of organization and  through    Hiring of a consultant firm for  160            160
operational model for four  06/'98     each one of the four studies
new regional WS&S
companies:
* Design of organization
* Consultation workshop
* Final proposal
To be provided through the legal
(ii) Legal support for the             advisor to the UPE General
transfer of services, prepa-           Manager
ration of legal documents and
contracts,
Hiring of specialized consultant  440               440
(iii) Assets and liabilities           firm for each one of the four new
evaluation study                       WS&S companies to be formed
Support to Commercial and   06/ '96   Hiring of individual consultant    200       420    640
management activities.     through    and/or firm to improve
06/'98    commercial operations.
Investment Program         06/ '96
(i) Unaccounted-for-water,    through    Hiring individual consultants or  320             320
(ii) Investment plan,       06/'98     firms for each one of the WS&S    100       400    500
(iii) Engineering,                     newly created companies.         1.200             1.200
(iv) Environmental analysis                                                        460    460
Economic and Financial      06/ '96
Analysis                   through
(i) Willingness to pay study  12/'98   (i) Hiring a consultant firm                400    400
(ii) Financial model,                 (ii) and iii) Ten weeks individual  100              100
(iii) Economic evaluation             consultant for each company.
TOTAL                                                                6.170     1.450   7.620
_ __-






Annex I
Page 1 of 7
VENEZUELA
WATER AND SEWERAGE DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
Technical Assistance Program
for the Creation of a Users' Hydrographic Confederation
for Water Resources Management in the State of Monagas
Background
1.    The management of water resources in Venezuela is de facto centralized in the
Ministry of the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (MARNR), which
formulates policies, sets water quality standards and controls most water-related
(particularly water supply and sanitation) investments as well as their operation and
maintenance. Several other national, state and local agencies are also involved in water
resources management, but these operate without coordination, a comprehensive
management approach or a clear policy or strategy for integration between them. As a
result of this situation, although water policy formulation is technically the responsibility
of MARNR, the Ministry of Agriculture and Breeding (MAC) separately plans,
constructs and manages irrigation, and, similarly, although water quality standards are
established at the national level by MARNR according to the type of water body, the
Ministry of Health and Social Assistance (MSAS) sets water standards whenever issues
related to the protection of public health are or might be involved. With respect to water
supply and sanitation, some of MARNR's centralized control responsibilities have been
delegated to HIDROVEN, a state-owned corporation, when sector restructuring and
decentralization begun in 1990. HIDROVEN, wholly owned b-y MARNR, oversees
water supply and sanitation services that are provided through regional water companies,
called HIDROS, which are themselves wholly owned by HIDROVEN.
2.    As part of the sector restructuring initiative, the government of Venezuela created
two river basin commissions in 1993 to decentralize and coordinate water resources
management in the Tuy River and Lake Valencia. However, these have failed to achieve
the objectives set for them, have not achieved sustainability and have remained fully
dependent from MARNR for their financial needs. The commissions were created
following a new institutional model to address problems of water and the environment
with a more decentralized approach, where public participation was presented as a key
component of the institutional framework (public meetings were held in the basins to
involve stakeholders in some planning decisions). In reality, the decision-making has
been maintained at the federal level. There is not a clear idea about the usefulness and
convenience of these commissions among officials in MARNR and the basin's
stakeholders have not been properly involved in its management and have remained un-
bound to requirements or decisions of financial significance.



Annex I
Page 2 of 7
3.    The state of Monagas is a good example of the difficult and complex institutional
framework of water management in Venezuela, since numerous agencies are operating in
the state without a comprehensive or integrated water resources management plan or
coordinating structure, either institutionally or through regulations. Indeed, water
resources management in Monagas involves: (i) local offices of MARNR; (ii) MSAS;
(iii) local offices of MAC; (iv) HIDROCARIBE-Monagas, the fully-owned subsidiary of
HIDROVEN for this state; and (v) Aguas de Monagas (AdM), the company formed by
the municipalities Mancomunidad and the state government which is being strengthened
under the proposed Bank project.
4.    Several important problems of water quantity and quality are being compounded
in Monagas by the combination of a growing pressure on water resources and divided
responsibilities among managing institutions, limited regulatory structure, lack of
adequate institutional capacity and weak financial incentives to implement water
resources planning and management. The state's urban areas have been steadily growing
in recent years (the capital and largest municipality in the state, Maturin, is experiencing
an annual rate of growth of 6.5 percent) and are already competing for increasingly scarce
resources with the main economic sectors, which are mainly based on the production of
oil and agriculture (crop and livestock, with plans for tripling of irrigated area in the next
decade). Municipal water supply systems are inadequately maintained and have lacked
the financial capacity, resulting in unreliable services, large losses, recurrent annual
periods of rationing and almost nonexistent wastewater treatment. Surface water quality
has, as a result, been degraded by industrial and domestic discharges which have
increased without corresponding investments in wastewater treatment or management.
Groundwater contamination is also thought to be widespread because of inadequate
sanitation practices, placing public health at risk, while monitoring and control measures
remain very weak and hundreds of wells are used for the supply without adequate control
of groundwater hydrology or quality.
5.    Although the creation of AdM is a step towards providing a more reliable and
efficient municipal water service, it does not addresses the allocation and protection of
water resources in the state and conflicts over water allocation and pollution will
probably grow in intensity if no action is taken in this area. To tackle this problem and
develop policies and experience that could be replicated in other parts of the country, the
project includes a technical assistance (TA) program to support the introduction of
integrated water resource management practices in the state of Monagas, through the
creation a Users' Hydrographic Confederation (CHU - Confederaci6n Hidrografica de
Usuarios) with heavy involvement of the basin's stakeholders. This action will help shift
decision-making activities from the central government to the region's stakeholders,
simplify and provide coordination in the institutional framework for the management of
water resources and will support the development of the principles, criteria and tools
necessary for tackling the physical issues mentioned above, particularly those related to
the allocation and protection of the resources. The principles and strategy used for the
implementation of this water resource management approach are described below.



Annex I
Page 3 of 7
Objectives and Strategy
6.    The inclusion of CHU in the project is based on the idea that effective water
resources management is best achieved through an organization that: (i) is given the
authority to establish and implement a water resources plan; (ii) meets the goal of
financial sustainability; and (iii) is locally based, represents the users and stakeholders in
a river basin and responds and is financially dependent from them. When these three
conditions are meet, it can be expected that there would be an inherent motivation to
efficiently allocate adequate volumes and sufficient quality for diverse uses, allocation
will be agreed upon by the users represented in CHU, and the degree of water quality
demanded by each water user and other stakeholders could be negotiated within the
organization. Because costs are covered among the stakeholders, the goals and the means
to reach these goals (in terms of water allocation and protection) can also be expected to
be cost-effective and financially sustainable.
7.    During project preparation, the Venezuelan authorities, with the support of
consultants financed by a grant from the Spanish government, evaluated the present
regulatory and institutional framework for water resources management, made a first
estimate of the possible solutions and developed and agreed to the above criteria. Based
on these criteria and on a preliminary assessment of the basic physical information
available, a decision was made that institutional development for water resource
management at the national level and for the state of Monagas should be based on a
comprehensive framework that accounts for the interdependencies among potentially
competing socioeconomic activities, while protecting aquatic ecosystems. Accordingly,
the TA to be provided will support the study, design and establishment of an effective
management framework through a strategy that relies on two key principles: (i)
management should be decentralized, with strong involvement of users and stakeholders,
and (ii) financial sustainability and self-sufficiency should be achieved through the
introduction of water use charges and pollution fees.
8.    The TA progran to be carried out through HIDROVEN would support the
establishment of CHU to manage water resources in the Amana and Guarapiche river
basins in the state of Monagas. Since the main role of CHU will be to develop and
implement management criteria and principles to plan for the allocation and protection of
water resources in this area, the TA program will also provide support to CHU for the
preparation of this management plan and for setting up the necessary institutional
capacity to implement it.
Description
9.    The TA program will be implemented in two phases: the first phase will support
the creation of the CHU; the second phase will provide technical support to help it
undertake its role. The first phase includes: (i) the development of a proposal for the
design of the institutional and legal framework necessary to create CHU and provide it



Annex I
Page 4 of 7
with the instruments to operate and achieve financial sustainability; and (ii) the
preparation of a basic information system of water resources, to be used for the
development of a water resources model for planning.  The second phase, to be
implemented following the creation of the CHU, will provide technical support to the
CHU for the selection of objectives, strategies and alternatives that will be translated in a
Water Resources Management Plan and for setting up a water resources monitoring
system.
10.   Design of Users' Hydrographic Confederation. The creation of an organization
of users and stakeholders capable of water resources management requires an enabling
institutional and legal framework. To create this type of organization in Monagas, the
project will finance a study to: (i) identify and evaluate the institutional system and key
stakeholders involved in water management, and their roles, as specified by law as well
as those actually demonstrated in practice; (ii) analyze the laws, regulations and
responsibilities distribution relevant to water resource management; (iii) evaluate the
financial and economic implications of a decentralized management approach based on
stakeholders participation; and (iv) propose a design for CHU, drawing from experiences
in similar circumstances either in Venezuela or other countries, with identification of
institutional and legal modifications necessary to create a functioning organization with
financial viability.
11.   The study will particularly explore and identify methods for the selection of
stakeholders to participate in CHU, procedures for decision-making, and use of economic
instrunents based on pricing for water quality and quantity. Potential stakeholders would
include representatives from  water companies, municipalities, industry, commerce,
agriculture, NGOs, and affected government agencies. To define the decision making
role of CHU, the study will develop proposals for the procedures it will use to coordinate
arnong and resolve disputes between stakeholders and for evaluating the roles and
responsibilities of different interest groups. The design will also address the staffing
needs for the technical unit that will be needed to support CHU, drawing as much as
possible on the present planning office which MARNR has located in the state of
Monagas, both to serve as a core unit for this and to provide counterpart role in the
execution of this study.
12.   Basic Information System. The design of CHU and the sustainable management
of water resources requires accurate knowledge of the area to be managed, the involved
stakeholders and its physical, chemical, biological, and socioeconomic conditions,
translated into a form usable for decision-makers. To this end, building on the initial
analysis made by consultants during project preparation, the project will finance the
development of a basic information system that will include the study and analysis,
among others, of the following:
(a)   Appropriate basin boundary for water management by CHU;
(b)   Hydrology of ground and surface water resources;



Annex I
Page 5 of 7
(c)   Ground and surface water quality;
(d)   Socioeconomic activities related to the water sector, including the
financial mechanisms and charges in place in the management of water.
(e)   Current and projected water uses and demands;
(f)    Land use and management;
(g)   Existing  infrastructure for water supply, sanitation, flood control,
irrigation, etc.;
(h)   Waste and pollution flows to and from the basins;
(i)    Natural ecosystem; and
(j)    Water-related public health issues, including incidence of water related
disease;
13.   The basic information system will also include the preparation of a geographic
information system (GIS) on the water resources in the area to be managed by CHU, to
facilitate the management of the information and its use by stakeholders and policy-
makers. It will include information on the allocations of water, water quality conditions
and existing and planned infrastructure for water supply, flood control, irrigation,
hydropower and wastewater treatment. Gaps in data, or poor quality data will be
identified and estimated in this first phase of the project.
14.   Technical Support. Upon its creation, the main tasks of CHU will be to: (i) set
goals for the river basins; (ii) generate and evaluate strategies to achieve those goals;
(iii) evaluate and select the alternatives that will define the Water Resource Management
Plan; and (iv) implement this plan. The project will support the development of the first
three.
15.   To support the goal identification and prioritization process, the project will also
finance the preparation of a Water Resources Model to provide a tool with which the
members of CHU may gain an understanding of the impacts of alternative strategies of
water management. The model will be based on the basic information system and on
input from stakeholders as identified in the design study for the CHU. The model will
mathematically relate the data on water quantity and quality with economic and
environmental information in a multi-objective framework to examine the tradeoffs
between objectives, such as economic growth among competing sectors, public health
protection and environmental preservation. The model is not intended as a substitution
for the negotiation and iteration with stakeholders that must form the basis of CHU role,
but as a tool to support it and to facilitate the consideration and evaluation of the costs
and inputs of the full range of management strategies and alternatives available,
including: demand management, regulatory measures, supply management, public
education, water charges, pollution fees, new institutional arrangements, and
environmental reclamation. At a minimum, the model will allow the strategies to be
assessed for their environmental, socioeconomic, political, legal, institutional, and fiscal
constraints and impacts.



Annex I
Page 6 of 7
16.   Additional technical support will be provided through the financing of the
establishment of a monitoring program of water quality and ecosystem health, including
acquisition of monitoring equipment and computer hardware and software. This technical
support will contribute additional knowledge of the resource, as well as a tool to
understand how to manage the watershed and to evaluate and review the management
decisions.
Implementation
17.   HIDROVEN will be responsible for implementation and for the development of
the policies and institutional framework necessary for the creation of CHU and for their
evaluation for possible replication in other parts of the country, as part of the National
Institutional Component. HIDROVEN will prepare the terns of reference and administer
the studies and activities of this sub-component, incorporating the Monagas' offices of
MARNR --and to the extent possible other stakeholders through it-- in this process and in
the administration and evaluation of the studies. Under this approach, the Monagas
offices of MARNR will constitute the core unit of CHU design. Following the creation
of CHU, financial responsibility for the technical unit would be progressively transferred
from MARNR to CHU, once its financial mechanisms are put in place.
Loan Condition
18.   Submission of a reform proposal and implementation plan satisfactory to the Bank
for the creation of the Users' Hydrographic Confederation by July 31, 1997, and the
implementation of this plan would be loan conditions.
TA Program Cost Summary
19.   The total estimated cost for TA program for supporting the creation of CHU is
US$ 2,050,000. Individual costs of the different tasks it will finance, its instruments and
planned execution period are outlined in Table 1.



Annex I
Page 7 of 7
Table 1.- Users' Hydrographic Confederation TA Program
Estimated (thousands of US$)
Tasks                  Exec.         Instruments                   Local Foreign   Total
Period
Basic Information System   01/1996    Hiring of a consulting firm       400      300     700
to         experienced in water resources
*  Resource Inventory    12/1997    management and GIS
*  Geographic                        development; the Firm will collect
Information System                data as well as coordinate with the
firm responsible for design of
CHU.
Design of CHU            01/1996    Hiring of a consulting firm                  400     400
to         experienced in the design and
Design of the CHU for the  12/1997    development of participatory
management of water                  water resources management
resources, proposal of               institutions. Should include
economic instruments, and            expertise in legal aspects, as well
draft legal framework.               as in financial and economic
analysis of water resources.
Technical Support
*  Design and            01/1998    Contracting of a consultant or     250       170    420
implementation of    to          firm with experience in water
Monitoring Program    12/1999    resources monitoring.
*  Water Resources       01/1998    Contracting of a consultant or              250      250
Management Model   to            firm with experience in water
Development           12/1999    quality modeling. Work will
include gathering of basic data
*  Equipment             01/1998    Acquisition of computer hardware              80      80
to         and software.
12/1999    Acquisition of monitoring                  200      200
equipment
TOTAL                                                               650    1.400   2.050



I



Annex J
Page 1 of 11
VENEZUELA
WATER AND SEWERAGE DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
Implementation Plan
1.    This annex details the Implementation Plan for the above project. It presents: (i)
project monitoring and reporting arrangements; (ii) Bank supervision requirements; and
(iii) project financing plan and work program. The annex also addresses the content of the
project's annual and mid-term implementation reviews and Bank supervision
requirements.
Project Monitoring and Reporting Arrangements
2.    Monitoring Indicators. Tables I and 2 at the end of this annex present the input,
output and impact/development indicators to be monitored during the implementation of
the project. Given the difficulty of measuring some of the project objectives success and
impact just by the use of numerical indicators, customer surveys will also be carried out
after two years and annually thereafter until the project is completed to help measure the
impact of the project on WS&S services and customer satisfaction. Additionally, NGOs
will be contracted (one at the regional level and one at the national level) to evaluate the
achievement of the project's objectives at mid-term and at project completion. These
monitoring indicators and reports must be incorporated in the semi-annual reports to
provide the executing agencies and the Bank with a detailed assessment of how the
project is performing and which correcting measures should be adopted, if necessary.
They will be reconfirmed during negotiations and set forth in a letter from HIDROVEN
and AdM to the Bank that will complement the Loan Agreement.
3.    Three main groups can be identified in this whole set of monitoring tools,
according to their expected use:
(a) the first group is formed by the indicators and targets that will be monitored as
financial covenants for AdM of the project agreement (these are listed in table 4.1
of this SAR and in the Article IV of the project agreement);
(b) a second larger group is formed by the whole set of monitoring indicators and
performance targets for AdM's, which have to be substantially achieved for the
disbursement of the third package of rehabilitation investments. These are listed
in table 1 of this annex and in the schedule 1 of the project agreement with AdM
(they correspond to the targets of the Contract Plan between the state government,
the Mancomunidad, and AdM, and will be the key vehicle for monitoring
performance and compliance with agreed objectives in the regional component);
and



Annex J
Page 2ofll
(c) a third group is formed by the "key monitoring indicators" (input, output and
impact), which will be used by the Bank to measure implementation performance
and monitor the project's impact (these are listed in table 2 and 3 of this annex
and include part of the performance targets for AdM, as well as other monitoring
indicators for the national institutional component).
4.    Project Monitoring and Reporting Requirements. The executing agencies
(HIDROVEN and AdM) will be responsible for project monitoring activities and for
preparing semi-annual progress reports to be submitted by September 30 for the semester
ending June 30, and by March 31 for the semester ending December 31. The contents,
schedule and distribution of responsibilities are shown in Table 4 and 5 at the end of the
annex. The reports will also evaluate compliance with subloan conditionality by AdM,
each municipality and by the state government, and actions taken to enforce compliance.
In cases of unsatisfactory progress, the reports will detail proposals for adjustments and
corrective actions.
5.    Project monitoring capacity. Project monitoring capacity in the executing
agencies will be guaranteed by the establishment of accounting and financial reporting
systems acceptable to the Bank in both agencies before effectiveness, and by the
strengthening of their capacity through the financing of consultant services.  In
HIDROVEN, a consultant contract will be financed under the national institutional
component to support the management and monitoring of this component and the overall
coordination of the project, including major monitoring and reporting activities. In AdM,
a management contract will be entered with a private operator, that includes among its
responsibilities the monitoring and reporting of the project implementation (financial,
investment and quality performance indicators), and a consultant will be hired to provide
assistance to AdM's Board of directors to supervise project implementation and the
performance of the private operator. Both these consultant contracts and the management
contract with a private operator should be made effective for project effectiveness or
disbursement and maintained during project execution, to guarantee adequate monitoring
capacity in HIDROVEN and AdM.
6.    Additionally, as has been pointed out above, project evaluation studies with
NGOs and customer satisfaction surveys (among AdM customers) will be carried out
before the project's mid-term review and after completion, to evaluate its success and the
impact of those components that can not easily be measured by numerical indicators.
Base conditions (before project starts) are available from the willingness-to-pay studies
carried out and from a survey of environmental health to be carried out shortly with the
support of the PHRD grant from the government of Japan.
7.    Annual Reviews. Within two months of the submission of the semi-annual
report due on September 30 of each year, the Bank and the Government will conduct a
formal joint review of the progress made in implementing the strategy for the sector,
meeting the project's objectives and achieving agreed monitoring indicators. The review
would be based on the semi-annual progress reports submitted by AdM and HIDROVEN



Annex J
Page 3 of 11
according to the reporting schedule shown in tables 4 and 5, and on performance
according to the targets established in the Contract Plan. The agenda for the reviews, in
addition to evaluating the semi-annual reports, would include an assessment of the
adequacy and timeliness of the National Government budget allocation for the project for
meeting the investment needs of the following year. The discussion and analysis of these
issues will lead to the formulation of an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to be
prepared by AdM, HIDROVEN and the Government, the terms of which will be carried
out during the succeeding year.
8.    Mid-Term  Reviewv. The second annual review would constitute a Mid-Term
Review of project implementation, and provide an opportunity for a more comprehensive
review of the achievements of the project to date and of the prospects for successful
completion. In addition to the agenda items for annual reviews, the Mid-Term Review
will include: (a) analysis of the flow of funds and funds management; (b) performance
under the Contract Plan; (c) an evaluation of the remaining investment needs and
authorization of the third rehabilitation investment package; (d) an evaluation of project
success to date based on the evaluation made by a NGO for the national component and
another NGO for the regional component, as well as consumer satisfaction surveys for the
components executed by AdM; and (e) any proposals for restructuring or reorienting the
project in light of the reviews and assessments of the issues discussed during the Review.
Bank Supervision Requirements
9.    Given the project's comprehensive approach to sector reform and the demands of
supervising subprojects across Monagas and Venezuela, extensive and close supervision
will be required, especially during the first year of project implementation. A project
launch workslhop and yearly annual reviews will be organized, assisting the staff of
institutions participating in the project to maintain a common understanding of the
project's overall development objectives, operational procedures, coordination needs, and
potential implementation problems. The project launch workshop will take place within
30-45 days of loan effectiveness, and will focus on any necessary reviews and
adjustments in the implementation plan, project management and work prograrn,
procurement, disbursement, and auditing procedures and requirements.  The launch
workshop would last three to five days and should include the following staff: Task
Manager, Financial Analyst, Procurement Specialist, Disbursement Specialist and
Accounting Specialist.
10.   It is expected that at least three supervision missions per year (four in the first
year), staffed by an environmental engineer, a financial analyst and an specialist in human
resources and community participation, plus one technical specialist from the resident
mission, with a duration of about two weeks per mission, will be required to supervise the
project during its implementation. Bank missions should plan to visit the municipalities
where rehabilitation works are under way, at least once during construction and once
during the operation of the rehabilitated infrastructure, as well as HIDROVEN' offices in
Caracas in relation with the national component.  Other states integrated in the Sector



Annex J
Page 4 of l1
Decentralization Program will be visited as time and resources permit. For the first year,
including the project launch workshop, the supervision requirements are estimated at
about 45 to 50 staff weeks (about 15 staff weeks from the resident mission, mainly for
day to day supervision). Supervision requirements will fall to about 35 to 40 staff weeks
per year thereafter (about 10 to 15 staff weeks per year from the resident mission).
Project Work Program and Financing Plan
11.   The project work program and financing plan are included in the cronogram and
table at the end of this annex.



Annex J
Page 5 of 11
Table 1. AdM Monitoring Indicators - -
Local currency:  (million Bs, current)
Indicator                                       :1,996     -1,997       1,998      1,999       2,000
Financial Indicators
Operating Ratio (%)                             111%         85%        84%         80%         78%
Debt Service Coverage                              1.5        2.0         2.0        2.0         2.0
Quick Ratio                                       4.4         6.5         6.3        6.1         6.6
Contribution to Investment Program (%)            0%         12%         17%        33%         33%
Users billed (%)                                 61%         77%         80%        83%         85%
Collections/billing (%)                          64%         73%        76%         78%         80%
Accounts receivable (months)                       4.0        3.1         2.8        2.7         2.5
Physical Indicators
Water Connections served                       78,700      82,200     85,800      89,200      92,500
Sewerage Connections served                    49,300      52,000     55,200      60,400      66,300
Residential Clients witlh meters (%)              2%         14%        26%         40%         50%
Large Consumers with Meters (%)                  33%         60%        100%       100%        100%
New Meters Installed (per year)                  1,000     10,400      11,500     13,500      10,000
Unaccounted-for-water (%)                        66%         52%        47%         43%         40%
Billing period (days)                              48          37         34          32         30
Collection period (days)                           72          56         50          48         45
Days of rationing per year                         25          15         10           7           5
Investments and Grants
Rehabilitation Investments (million Bs)          1,539      7,978      10,089      9,871      12,962
Accumulated                                   1,539       9,516     19,605      29,475      42,437
Total grants to Investments (million Bs)         1,539      1,863       1,483          -           -
Accumulated                                   1,539       3,402       4,885      4,885       4,885
National Government                            307.7       931.5       741.7          -           -
Accumulated                                     308       1,239       1,981      1,981       1,981
State Government                               923.2       558.9      445.0           -           -
Accumulated                                     923       1,482       1,927      1,927       1,927
Municipalities                                 307.7       372.6      296.7           -           -
Accumulated                                     308        680         977         977        977
DEFINITIQN
Operaling Ratio. the percentage of operating income that is spent on operating expenses plus
depreciation.
Debt Service Coverage: the internal cash generation divided by the debt service.
Quick Ratio:  the percentage of current assets (cash, marketable securities, and accounts
receivable) in relation to current liabilities; this ratio is also called the acid test ratio.
Contribution to Investment Program: percentage of total investment costs contributed from
internal cash generation.
Users Billed: number of users billed divided by total number of users.



Annex J
Page 6 of 11
Collections/Billing: bills collected (in Bs) divided by total bills issued on an annual basis.
Accounts Receivable (nmonths): total uncollected bills at the end of the year divided by total
billing for the year and then multiplied by twelve.
New Meters Installed: anllual number of meters installed.
Unaccounted-for-water: volume of water produced less the volume of water billed
(micrometered plus non-metered estimated at 15 m3 per month per household for residential
consumers and 10 m3 per household for social consumers) divided by the volume of water
produced and metered.
Billing Period. number of days between reading of meters and issuing of bills.
Collection Period: number of days between issuing of bills and collection of payment.
# Days of Rationing Per Year: number of days in a year where water supply must be rationed
due to the inability to meet total demand.



Annex J
Page 7 of 11
Table 2. Key Monitoring Indicators and Targets
Indicator                                    [1997    :1998:-    1999             2000
Input
Rehabilitation investments in AdM             9,500       10,000      9,800       13,000
(million Bs, rounded)
No. of rural investment projects evaluated and  10          23          25          12
approved in the year
HIDROVEN expenditures in the Technical        1,100       1,400       1,400        700
Assistance Program( I 03USS)
Output
Efficiency in collections over billing of AdM  73          76          78           80
(%)
New meters installed by AdM                   10,200     21,500      34,700      44,500
No. of rural communities with local committees  15          40          70          85
in operation
No. of states or regional water companies with  0           2           4           6
completed studies for decentralization'
Impact
Contribution to investment by AdM (%)           12          17          33          33
Unaccounted-for-water of AdM (%)               52          47          43          40
No. of people upgraded to basic service level in  6,000   19,000     35,000      42,000
rural communities*
No. of water systems with cost recovery and     0           0           2           6
decentralized management
Cummulative figures to be reached each year at year's end



Annex J
Page 8 of ll
Table 3. Other Input, Output and Impact/Development Monitoring Indicators
1. Improve WS&S Serices and Extend Coverage In Ruiral Area.
a. No. of Investment Projects Approved                    Input     Targeted       0     10      23      25       12       70
Achieved
b. No. of Communities with local Committees in Operation   Output   Targeted       0     15      25      30       15       85
Achieved
c. No. of people upgraded to basic service level          Impact   Targeted        0   6000   13000   16000   7000   42000
Achieved
d. No. of people newly served at the basic level          Impact   Targeted        0   1000    1500    1500    1000    5000
Achieved
e. No. of operators trained and certified                  Output   Targeted       0     15      30      30       15      60
Achieved
2. Strenthen HIDROYEN Capacity and Sector Develonment
a. HIDROVEN Expenditures in the Technical Assistance      Input    Targeted       0   1100    1400    1400    700       4600
Progrlun(l0'USS)
Achieved
b. HIDROVEN Expenditures in the Creation of die Hydrographic Input  Targeted      0    600    500    550    400    2050
Confedertion (19USS)
Achieved
c. HLDROVEN Expenditure in the National Training Program  Input     Targeted      0   1000    1200    900         0     3200
(10'USS)
Achieved
d. No. of sates or regional water companies with completed  Output   Targeted      0      0       2       2       2        6
studies for decentralization'
Achieved
3. IcesTehca.Amnistrative and Regulatory Canacitv.
at State aGd Local Leels.
a. No. of Technical Assistance progrms Approved           Output   Targeted       0       2       4       2                8
Achieved
b. No. of Participants in NTP's Executive Seminars        Output   Targeted        0     30      30                       60
Achieved
c. No. of Participants in NTP's Introductory Courses      Output   Targeted       0      20      20      20               60
Achieved
Includes those states and companies supported by IDB under the Caracas project



Annex J
Page 9of 11
Table 3. Other Input, Output and Impact/Development Monitoring Indicators
._... *:.                                               ~                        ...........,...'..W.
d. No. of Participants in NTP's Specialized Course        Output   Targeted       0      40      40      40      40       160
Achieved
e. No. of Participants in NTP's regulatory support process  Output   Targeted      0     40     100      15               155
Achieved
4. Impe Lepal and Regulmtora Framework and Cat RecoAc
Mmfbawm
a. No. of Systems for Service Charges in Place            Impact   Targeted       0       0       3       6       7        16
Achieved
b. No. of Systems With Cost Recovery and Decentralized    Impact   Targeted        0      0       0       2       4         6
management                                                        Achieved
c. No. of Municipalities With WS&S Regulations            Output   Targeted        0      0       4       6       10       20
Achieved
d. No. of States With WS&S Regulations                    Output   Targeted        0      0       1       2       3        6
Achieved
e. No. of National Standards Issued for WS&S              Output   Targeted       0       4       0       4       0        8
Achieved
f. No. of Concessions in Operation                        Impact   Targeted       0       0       0               2        2
Achieved
Non-cummulative yearly targets



Annex J
Page 10 of II
Table 4. Summary of Project Reporting (HIDROVEN)
HIDROVEN        1 Semiannual Progress Reports
World Bank     Sept. 30
(a) HIDROVEN Strengthening and Technical Assistance Program                           March 31
accomplishments current and cumulative
comparison with projections and goals
assessment of issues and problems arising from its execution
in case of problems, adjustments proposed to correct them
plan for next calendar year, including proposed budget
(b) AdM Strengthening:
review and submit report prepared by AdM (see 1, Table 4)
(c) Rural Communities Strengthening:
review and submit report prepared by NCO and submitted by
AdM (see 1. Table 4)
(d) Creation of dte User's Hydrographic Confedention:
accomplishments: current and cumulative
comparison with projections and goals
assessment of issues and problems arising from its execution
in case of problems, adjustments proposed to correct them
plan for next calendar year, including proposed budget
(e) Financial Information:
current year's and cumulative Technical Assistance provided
current year's and accumulated investment approved
current year's and cumulative project investment plan
current status of loan disbursements
(f) Report status of following contracts:
(I) Public awareness campaign
(2) Project unit management contract
(3) Design of the CH
(4) Management information system
(5) Preparation of norms and standards
2. Biannual repon of project national institutional component success
prepared by NGO
3. Submission of Biannual report prepared by NGO on AdM components
and report of customer satisfaction survey



Annex J
Page 11 of 11
Table 5. Summary of Project Reporting (AdM)
| .s                                    ';I   i    '  ';  '    {'   '  :' ' ' s . I ; 1 s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.     . ... .   .   .. .
...,,--,....,;,.,,,,,.... ''":4''S                                                           1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
AdM           Semniannual reports to HIDROVEN                                       HIDROVEN        Report has to
HIDROVEN
(a) AdM Strengthening:                                                               on time for its
accomplishments: current and cumulative                                     review and
comparison with projections and goals                                       utclusion in
assessment of issues and problems arising from TA execution                 smana
in case of problems, adjustments proposed to correct them                   report to be
plan for next calendar year, including proposed budget                      submitted to
(b) Report on status of Rural Participatory Fund                                     D  atek. b
list of Communities Final Designs approved                                  agreed between
list of investments executed                                                HIDROVEN
list of community comities supportedanAd
current year's and cumulative TA providedanAd
comparison with goals
assessment of issues atnd problems
in case of problems, adjustments proposed to correct them
(c) Plan for next calendar year rehabilitation works, including budget
(d) Report on AdM rehabilitation investrnents:
current year's and cumulative program executed
assessment of issues and problems
in case of problems, adjustments proposed to correct them
definition of sector training priorities
plan for next calendar year. including proposed budget
(e) Report on Status of the following contracts:
I ) ManMgement contract
2) Rural fund NGO
3) Project evaluation by NGO and customer satisfaction survey



WORK PROGRAM FOR W. S. DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
Table 6. Work Program
ID    Name                                        Duration    Scheduled Start  -04  01]  _203 _Q4   Ql Q2  Q3 L          Q01Q2fQ3   Q4   1  Q2  Q3   4             Q2|Q3 _
I    Regional Institutional Component               1053d       2/19/96 8:00am
2        Regional Institutional Strengthening        1063d      2119/9 8:00am     *     _    _   |   I                                      - _  j_
3             Management Contract execution          1 044d      3/1/96 8:00am
4             Public Information Campaign               4w       8196 8:00am
5             Survey of Customers satisfaction         12w      10/1/978:00am
6             NGO Project Evaluation                    4w       5/1/98 8:00am
7             Consultant services                    1044d       3/1/96 8:00am
8            Suport to Rural systems                 1044d      2/19/96 8:00am       WI
9                 Contract with NGO                   790d      2/19/96 8:00am
10                     Contracting of NGO               6w]      2/19/96 8:00am    .                                         _,
I11                    Promotion among comuniies       40w        4/1/96 8:00am                     / -
12                    Training of operators            60w       8/19/96 8:00am   _
13                     Sub-project pro. prep.suppor   120w      11/11/968:00am
14                     Technical support to comites    12w        9/2/96 8:00am
15                Consulant services                 1044d       2/19/96 8:00am      .                                               -
16                Rehabilitation plan and Design      625d       2/19/96 8:00am
17                     Project final designs           20w       2/19/96 8:00am
18                    W.S.S. Master Plan               40w       10/6/97 8:00am
19
20   Rehabilitation Component                        1124d       11/7/96 8:00am                                      _                                         E.1
21        EmergencyWorks                               30w       11/7/958:00am
22        Priority Rehabilitation Works                90w        7/8/96 8:00am    .                    //
23        Improvemnent and Expansion Works            10Ow       3/30/98 8:00am    .                                         ___
TABLE 6.                    ~~Critical        _        _       Progress                           Summary __
Noncritical MEMilestone                                  *Rolled Up 



WORK PROGRAM FOR W. S. DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
Table 6. Work Program
1996       1      1997              1998              1999               2000
ID    Name                                       Duration    Scheduled Start   Q4  Q1  Q2  Q3  Q4  0 Q1  Q2  Q3  0 Q4  Q1  02  Q3  0 Q4  0 Q1  0 02  0 03  0 04  1 Ql Q2  0 Q3
24       Rural Systems Rehabilitation Works          150w      12/9/96 8: 00am
25
26   National Institutional Component               1044d      2/19/96 8:00am
27       Technical Assistance Program                USEd      2/19/96 8:00am
28           Institutional Strengthenng of HIDROVE   153d       3/1/968 800am
29            Management information system          348d       1/1/97 8:00am
30            Preparation of Norms and Standards     130d       9/1/97 8:00am
31            Development of General Policies        190d       9/1/97 8:00am
32                Rural Systems supply                14w       9/1/97 8:00am
33                Private sector involvement          12w       12/8/97 8:00amV
34                Management of shared resources      12w        3/2/988 800am
35            Hydrographic Confederation             Slid      2/19/96 8:00am
36                Design of the CH                    40w      2119/96 8:00am                                                          -              -__-
37                Basic Information System and GI     25w     11/25/96 8 00am j
38                Creation of the CH                  20w      8/14/97 8 00am
39                Hydrological Plan support           80w        1/1/98 8 00am m F
40        National Training Program                  68Sd       6/1/96 8 OOam                       I        I m   -
41            Support framework adoption             563d       6/1/96 800am                       I _          I -  I      r
42               Intemational seminar                  4w       1 1/1 t97 8:00am .   T                                I
t---I ~ ~    ~   -- I  ____ I--    ---- _---. _- -__
43                Workshop 1                           2w        6t11/96 8:00am__ f__ ___
44                Workshop 2                           2w        6t11t98 8:00am___ _- -- ---__
45                Field visits                        12w        5M/196 800am                                                                                  i
46            Managerial and technical training      566d       6/1/96 8:00am                       I
Critical                          Progress                         Summary
Noncritical                       Milestone  *                      Rolled Up O



WORK PROGRAM FOR W. S. DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
Table 6. Work Program
1996                 1997       1        98        1       1999               2000 _
ID    Name                                         Duration    Scheduled Start   Q4  Q1  02  Q3   4  0   0  [3  Q4  Q1    2  Q3  Q4  Q1  Q2  03_
47                 Executive seminars                  260d        6/3/96 8 00am
48                Intensve courses                     521d        6/1/96 8 00am
49                Introductory courses for regulation  522d        8/1/96 800am
50            User Awareness Campaign                  217d        8/1/96800am     I
51        Sector Decentralization Program              600d       2119/969 OCeni    _                    -    I -          _                  __
52            Technical studies                         40w       2/19/96 8 00am
53            Investrent plans preparation            60w        11/25/96800am            JJi
64        EPU Management system                       1044d       2/19/96 8:00am    _      - r
55            Manager en support services             1044d       2/19/96 8  00am
56            Consultants support to Management        1044d      219/96 800am
57_                                                                                            _
68    Management Contrac Biding                          66d      12/4/95 8II0;                                                         t
59        Biding invitaon                                50d      124J95 800am
60        Signing of Contract                             Sd      2/12/96 8:00am               I                                                             _
61   |Id                                                          127/95 800am |t
6  Critical                          Progress                           Summary   w-
Noncritical                        Milestone   *                      Roiled Up  K



VENEZUELA                                                                               Page I of 4
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
Project Financing Plan
(thousand US$)
t:X:'.,i:;','..S. MUEM..'.,; ... s. w . ... ....             .
Regional Institional Strengthening
AdM Institutional Strenghening                          -           -           -          640         159         799        580         106         686
Bank                                                   -           -          -           625         159        784         580         106         686
Nationl Government                                     -           -                                  -                       - - 
State Govenamnt                                        -           -          -             3         -            3
Local counerpat                                        -           -                        2                      2         -
AdM cash generaton                                           -                -             6         -            6
Institut Support ofRural Rehabiltation Fund             -           -           -          -           213        213          -          213         213
Bank                                                   -                      -           -          213         213         -           213         213
Nalionl Govemnact                                      -           -          -           -
State Governcmen
Loea counterparn
AdM cash germralion                                                                             -           -                -           -           -
SubtotalReounalhinsdtuUonD                               -           -          -           640         372       1,012        580         319         899
RetbbiatlaUe Invealmente
Urban rehabibtation packages                           495        2,255      2,750       1,260       7,740       9,000       1,148      7,052       8,200
Banik                                                 371        1,471      1.843         945       4,635       5,580        861       4,223       5.084
National Govarncnt                                      25         157        182          99         975       1,074         58         574         632
State Goverimna                                         74        470         54.5         59         585        644          35         344         379
Local coatapart                                         25        157         182          40        390         430          23         229         253
A.AdMcashngaaion                                       -           -          -           117       1,155       1,272        171       1,682       1,853
Rural rehabilitaton                                     -           -          -           -           600        600          -          600         600
lank                                                   -           -          -           -          390         390                     402         402
National Government                                                -          -           .           .           .          .           .           -
State Governen-t                                                   -                -                 147        147         -           139         139
Local o   a                                            -           -                      -           63          63         -            59          59
AdM cash generabon                                     -           -          -           -                       -           -          -           -
SubtoblReheblltafion                                    495        2,255      2.750        1,260      8,340       9,600       1,148      7,652       8,800



VENEZUELA                                                                                  Page 2 of 4
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
Project Financing Plan
(thousand US$)
Nadonal Insdtudonal Strengthening
Bank                                                       -           -           -           999       1,260       2,259        1,330       2,192       3,522
IDB                                                        -           -           -           334       1,067       1,401         415        1,389       1,804
National Govenment-                                              -                 -            10         -            10          18          -            18
Subtotal NtUuoal InshtIuonal                                -           -           -         1,343       2,327       3,670        1,762       3,581       5,343
Contlmgsmde
Bank                                                       40          158         198         240         745         985         311         921        1,232
IDB                                                        -           -           -            26          79         105          43          134        177
Natkinal Govcnxmegn                                         3           17          20          14         121         135          11          84          95
State Govemnmt                                              8          51           59           8          91          99           5          71           76
L.ocal ouRntpart                                            3           17          20           5          56          61           3          42          46
AdM  cash g-r ion                                          -           -           -            15         143         159          25         247         272
Sbtoad Couei4gmdes                                          53         242          296         308        1,235       1.544        398        1,500       1,898
ldv  &wn conduction
National Govasnern                                         -           -           -           700         -           700        1,625         -         1,625
Taxes
AdM  cash gention                                          -           160         160         -           308         308          -          298         298
Totd Projei Comb
Bank                                                      411        1,629       2.041       2,809       7,401      10,210       3,082        8,057      11,139
lDB                                                        -           -           -           360        1,146       1,506        457        1,523       1,981
Nationa Govamnent                                           27         174         201         827        1,096       1,923       1,712        658        2,369
State Govenennt                                             82         521         603          70         823         893          40          554         594
Local courncpafl                                            27         174         201          47         509         556          27         331          358
AdM cash gcneration                                        -           160         160         138        1,606       1,744        196        2,227       2,423
TOTAL                                                       548       2,657       3,206       4,251       12,531      16,832       5,513      13,350      18,863



VENEZUELA                                                                               Page 3 of 4
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
Project Financing Plan
(thousand US$)
Re*onaI Insdtdtonal Strengthening
AdMI IntutionalStrenghening                             752         156        908        1,048        309       1,357       3,020        730       3,750
Bank                                                   752        156         908       1,048        309        1,357      3,005         730       3,735
National Govonunot                                     -           -          -           -           -           -            5         -             5
State Govrnmnot                                                                                                                3                       3
Local couatapet                                        -           -          -           -           -           -            2         -             2
AdM  cashganeafon                                      -           -          -           -           -           -            6                       6
Instiut. Support ofRural Rehabiltation Fund             -           170        170         -           255         255         -          350         850
Bank                                                   -          170         170         -          255         255         -           850         850
National Governenot                                                -           -                      -                      -           -           -
State Govon¢nc- 
AMA cash gombTion                                            -           -          -           -           -           -          -                 -
Snbtotd IReooba Insiutbku                                752        326        1,07S       1,048        564       1,612      3,020       1,S30       4,600
RamhtaUou Inva
Urban rehabilitaion packages                            854       5,246      6,100         804       5,896       6.700      4,561      23,189      32,750
Bnk                                                    555       2,617      3,172         523       2,894       3.417      3,255      15,341      19,096
National Govemnmnt                                     -           -           -          -           -           -          182       1,705       1,887
Stale Govounot                                               -           -          -           -                 -          169       1,399       1,568
Local owuterpat                                        -           -          -           -                                   a U        776         864
AdM  cash goneration                                   299       2,629      2,928         281       3,002       3,283         63       3,468       9,336
Rural rehabilitation                                    -         1,200       1,200         -          600         600         -         3,000      3,000
Bank                                                   -          684         684                    330         330         -         1,306       1,806
National Govaeineat                                    -                      -                       -           -
State Govenmint                                        -          361         361         -           189         189                   S36          836
Local rcouopt                                          -          155         155         -            Sl         81         -           3S8         358
AdM cash gneration                                     -           -          -           -           -
Subiobi RehbMNadon                                       854       6,446       7,300        804       6,496       7,300      4,561      31,139      35,750



VENEZUELA                                                                               Page 4 of 4
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
Project Financing Plan
(thousand US$)
Nadtom  InsUdtoual Strngthening
Bank                                                  1,062       1,669       2,731        251         140        391        3,642      5,260       8,902
IDB                                                     384       1,116       1,500        120         149         269       1,253      3,720       4,973
National Govenuent                                       70         *            70         28         -            28        126         -           126
Subtol Nxdonal I      _utonal                          1,516       2,785       4,301        399         288         687       5,020      3,980      14,000
Com _ngud-
Bank                                                    327         818       1,145        302         751       1,054       1,220      3,253       4,614
IDB                                                      47         138        185          18          22          40        134         373         508
Nationl Govanmat                                         12         -           12           6         -             6          46        222         268
Stae Govaxnnat                                          -            63         63          -           38          38         21         313         334
Local ccwapart                                          -            27         27         -            16          16         11         159         170
AdM cah geneaation                                       52         456        508          56         601         657        143        1,447      1,595
Subtotl ContngencIs                                      438       1,501       1,939        382       1,429       1,811       1,580       5,907       7,488
Intres during cosbuckon
National Goveniment                                   2,504         -         2504       3,160        -         3,160       7,989         -         7,989
Taxes
AdM cash generation                                     -           293        293          -          226         226         -         1,285       1,285
Total Project Costs
Bank                                                  2,696       6,114       8,809       2,124      4,679       6,803      11,122      27,880     39,002
IDB                                                     431       1,254       1,685        138         171         309       1,387       4,093       5,480
National Govenmment                                   2,587         -         2,587       3,194        -         3,194       8,347       1,927      10,274
State Govenmment                                        -           424        424         -           227         227         192       2,548       2,740
Local counterpart                                       -           182        182          -           97          97         101       1,293       1,394
AdM cash generation                                     351       3,378       3,729        338       3,829       4,166       1,022      11,200      12,222
TOTAL                                                  6,064      11,351      17,416       5,794      9,003      14,796      22,170      48,942      71,112



Annex K
Page 1 of 12
VENEZUELA
WATER AND SEWERAGE DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
AdM Finances
Background
1.    Aguas de Monagas (AdM) is a newly established company, created with limited
operating capital and no assets, and staffed only by the core personnel needed to manage
the transfer of operations from HIDROCARIBE, the regional water company, and
prepare this project. It took over the commercial part of the service in July 1995. In
January 1996 it became responsible for the WS&S services in the entire state in
substitution of HIDROCARIBE.  AdM  has inherited a service saddled by poor
management, weak commercial practices, bad culture of payment, low billing and
collection rates (61 and 56 percent respectively for the whole state in 1994 and 52 and 27
for 1995, the year of the transfer) and insufficient tariff levels (17.5 Bs/m3 for residential
consumers and 10 Bs/m3 for low income "social" consumers).
2.    AdM's main challenge is to overcome and correct the main financial and
commercial problems that affected HIDROCARIBE's performance, rehabilitate seriously
deteriorated physical infrastructure and improve service quality. Consequently, better
billing and collection procedures and reduction of the high unaccounted-for-water are
critical features of AdM's reform agenda and represent essential elements needed to
achieve its two key objectives in the financial area: (i) develop and maintain the financial
sustainability of the company; and (ii) guarantee the availability of sufficient working
capital for an adequate operation and for undertaking the required rehabilitation
investment plan.
Financial Model and Projections
3.    AdM's financial model and projections are included in the tables at the end of this
annex. They show that under the assumptions adopted, AdM will be sustainable and able
to reduce its dependency from national government transfers early in project execution
and cover most of the needed counterpart for the planned investment program, having a
positive net cash flow and income at the end of project execution. These projections were
prepared for this Staff Appraisal Report in June 1995 and updated on November 1995 and
April 1996, during negotiations. Main assumptions used for the preparation of AdM's
financial projections are summarized in table 1.
4.    AdM is expected to generate operating and net incomes on the order of 22% and
13%, respectively, of revenues by the end of project execution, cover about 33% of



Annex K
Page 2 of 12
investments by 1999 and 2000 and 100% thereafter, and maintain a debt service coverage
ratio above 1.5 after 2000 and over 2 after 2002, and a quick ratio over 6 during project
execution and over 1.5 after project execution. Rates of return on invested capital are
projected by the model to meet or exceed 5% on revalued assets on 2006. A study to
identify and reevaluate the service's assets and liabilities and the assets transferred under
Comodatum has been carried out during project preparation. These assets (presently
under HIDROCARIBE, MARNR and the municipalities) have been transferred to AdM,
upon the transfer of the service from HIDROCARIBE to AdM, and properly accounted
for (the model takes into consideration assets valued about 2,346 million Bs, that were
registered in HIDROCARIBE's accounts for 1995).
Table 1. Main Assumptions for the Financial Projections
i;Parameter/Actiondl                           AssumptionF   -i C 0-l;-0it f;0 0   0:00llif 00:0    t 
Inventory reserves                             15 days of consumption
Cash requirement for O&M and investments       2 months of expenses
Accounts payable to Contractors and Suppliers  3 months of expenses
Taxes on Income                                30%
Taxes on Assets                                0.25%
Revaluation of Assets                          Automatic, with inflation
5.    HIDROCARIBE before and AdM now follow Venezuela's generally accepted
accounting and auditing principles, which are similar to those internationally recognized,
although their practices suffer from some deficiencies. Financial statements are audited
by a national firm that is appointed by the Director of the company. As part of project
preparation, the Bank is providing assistance to AdM (as well as to HIDROVEN) to
strengthen its accounting system and address deficiencies in this area before eligible
investments are initiated.
Working Capital
6.   Initial working capital for AdM will be provided through the combination of three
mechanisms: (i) AdM will collect all accounts receivable as of July 1995, when it took
over the commercial management of the service, and keep 40% of these payments; (ii)
for the period between July and December 1995, HIDROCARIBE will cover the
operating deficit of AdM using the reallocated funds received from the national
government for the operation of the service in the state of Monagas in 1995; and (iii) a
revolving fund will be created in AdM for the financing of the project investments
through the reimbursement by the Bank of the expenses eligible for retroactive financing
executed by HIDROCARIBE, that will be fully covered by grant contributions from the
state and national governments budgeted investment funds. The amounts to be received
through these three mechanisms have been estimated in: (i) 125 million Bs from pending



Annex K
Page 3 of 12
accounts receivable, (ii) 242 million Bs to cover AdM financial deficit in 1995; and (iii)
545 million Bs to finance the planned investments that will be eligible for retroactive
financing by the Bank under the proposed project (the revolving fund will be initially
constituted by the Bank disbursements, estimated at 265 million Bs).
7.    According to AdM's adopted policy, cash requirements have been projected to
maintain additional cash to cover at least two months of the operating expenses (less non-
receivable accounts) and short term investments projected for each year. Submission of a
plan satisfactory to the Bank for the provision of working capital for AdM would be
condition of negotiations.
Statement of Financial Results. Revenues
8.    Tariff Revenues. HIDROCARIBE's and now AdM's tariff structure follows the
1993 joint Ministerial Resolution of the Ministry of the Environment and Renewable
Natural Resources (MARNR) and the Ministry of Finance. Tariffs for residential, social
(low  income residential consumers), commercial, industrial and official users were
calculated by HIDROCARIBE against the residential tariff (referential residential tariff)
selected for each WS&S system, according to its characteristics (five reference levels
were established in the Resolution).
9.    The Resolution also establishes a formula to adjust the referential residential
tariff according to changes in the cost of labor, chemicals, energy and maintenance
contracts. However, this formula was never applied by HIDROCARIBE and tariff levels
have been eroded below what would be necessary to maintain the financial viability of
the company. Until 1995, tariffs remained at 17.5 Bs/m3 for residential, 10 Bs/m3 for
social and around 50 Bs/m3 for industrial, commercial and official users (level 4) in
Maturfn, and even lower in the rest of the state (normally at level 3, with 15, 7.5 and
around 40 Bs/m3 for residential, social and other users, respectively). Additionally, the
great majority of consumers were billed on a non-metered flat consumption rate (30 and
15 m3 per month for residential and social users respectively) and a disproportional large
number of consumers are classified as social. This, combined with the inefficient billing
and collection practice of HIDROCARIBE, produced largely insufficient tariff revenues.
10.   During project preparation, the referential residential tarif was increased in June
3        ~~~3                                       3
1995, from 17.5 Bs/m3 to 40 Bs/m3, and will be further increased to 60 Bs/m as a
condition of loan effectiveness (the social tariff will also be raised to 20 Bs/m3 and
industrial and commercial tariffs to 100 Bs/m3). These increases have been adopted by
the authorities to bring tariff revenues to levels that make the AdM financially viable, but
also to overcome the difficulty that tariffs increases would face due to the lack of a clear
regulatory framework and distribution of responsibilities in this area, should they be
I     This amount is calculated as 60% of the projected non-collectible accounts at the end of the year.
It is not included in the financial projection due to its uncertainty and in order to be on the safe side.



Annex K
Page 4 of 12
phased latter into project execution. It is also the policy of AdM to unify tariff levels in
the state, review those consumers classified as social and apply the formula provided by
the Resolution to update the referential residential tariff on a continuous basis to
maintain its value in real terms (this can be done without the intervention of the national
government, requiring only the approval of the Mancomunidad). Accordingly, the
financial projections assume that about 10,000 social consumers will be reclassified as
residential, newly billed consumers will be billed as residential and tariff levels will be
adjusted to reflect changes in the costs of labor, chemicals, energy and operation
contracts. Although not considered for the financial projections, an assessment will be
made during project execution of the tariff structure, the cost structure, the marginal cost
of the service and the provisions for adequate enforcing and tariff levels and structure will
be accordingly reviewed.
11.   Billing, Collection and Unaccounted-for-water. Present rates for billing,
collection, unaccounted-for-water and metering are forecasted to improve according to
the targets established under the Contract Plan (see table 2 below which summarizes
some of the assumptions used for setting these targets). These targets have been
developed during project preparation, on the basis of: (i) conservative estimations of the
improvements that are considered to be achievable in the commercial and physical
performance of the company; (ii) the help of a private operator to be hired under a
management contract;  and (iii) experience from similar water utilities.  Accounts
receivable are forecasted to be reduced to about two months from present four months
and special tariff reduction for municipal water consumption will be discontinued as a
result of project preparation agreements. Unaccounted-for-water is also estimated to
decrease to about 40% (from 70% in 1994) at the end of project execution and an
additional 10% during the following years.
Table 2. Performance Targets for AdM
..= .......9                                                 NS0
Residential users billed (%)    61        77       80        83        85
Collectionibilling (%)          64        73       76        78        80
Unaccounted-for-water (%)       66        52       47        43        40
Residential metered (%)          1        13       25        40        50
12.   To achieve these targets the management contract with a private operator will link
part of the payment to improvements in the rate of unaccounted-for-water and billing and
collection efficiency and AdM will concentrate the investments planned under the project
in the rehabilitation of the system and in the introduction of macrometering to production
and micrometering to about 50% of residential users and to 100% of commercial,
industrial and official users by the end of project execution. It is also assumed that the



Annex K
Page 5 of 12
volume of water consumed per customer is maintained at present levels and the
population will grow at a rate of about 2.8 percent per year.
13.   Other Revenues. Other revenues are estimated to be negligible in the financial
projections. However, with improved financial results and a liberalized financial sector,
treasury operations within AdM could begin to contribute to the revenues of the
company, particularly at the end of the project execution, when cash balances will be
substantially better.
Statement of Financial Results. Operational Expenses
14.   Impact of inflation. Average expected inflation and exchange rates are shown in
table 3 below. These projections reflect the impact of the recent devaluation. They have
been adopted on the assumption that local inflation will remain high for the next years,
decreasing the difference between local and international inflation rates only in the order
of 40% each year, from a 1996 inflation rate of about 80% to about 9% in the year 2000,
and that the official exchange rate will not reflect 20% of this difference. The effect on
AdM's financial performance that a possible worsening of the present unstable
macroeconomic situation of the country, over these already pessimistic projections, is
analyzed as part of the risk section of this annex (para 29 and 30).
Table 3. Estimated Macroeconomic Indicators Evolution
1nIktqr .1 ->   <;g-     9290- 10<- i9f        1,6                 2 0 
Inflation (%)                 80        50        27         15         9
Exchange rate (Bs/US$)*      480       632      1,070     1,450     1,730
*Average official exchange rate of the year
15.   Financial projections have been made on the basis of the operating costs and
efficiency indicators of the system under HIDROCARIBE's management, that are
considered conservative. Cost of energy, chemicals, labor and operation contracts are
expected to increase according to local inflation (see table 4). However, changes in the
cost for AdM of energy, chemicals and local purchases are only expected to reflect 50, 30
and 80% respectively of the variation of the local inflation (unit labor costs changes will
reflect 100%) due to the particular characteristics of the supply of energy and chemicals
in Venezuela (up to now, electricity was not paid by HIDROCARIBE and chemicals are
obtained from sub-products of large national industries) and to the rigidity of operation
contracts.
16.   Personnel Costs. After taking the WS&S system in Monagas over from INOS,
HIDROCARIBE operated it through annual contracts with local operating companies and
engineering firms (mainly formed by former INOS staff) that provided personnel,



Annex K
Page 6 of 12
equipment and some maintenance costs, while concentrating itself in the commercial
management and in the overall supervision and planning. As a result, HIDROCARIBE's
staff in Monagas was small (about 60 positions among management, commercial and
engineering departments). It is the policy of AdM to maintain this approach under the
overall management by the private operator. To this end, AdM received the commercial
management of the company in July 1995 after HIDROCARIBE had made redundant the
corresponding staff. Subsequently, AdM rehired only about 30 of the corresponding staff
on an interim basis, to be confirmed by the private operator. Additionally, one of the first
tasks of the private operator will be the reformulation and renegotiation of the contracts
with the local operating companies. As part of the Contract Plan agreements between
AdM and its stockholders, AdM, and through it the private operator, will have complete
autonomy in their hiring/redundancy policy and decisions. AdM staff is not unionized
and professional and technical staff wages are governed by public sector wage laws.
Table 4. Estimated Evolution of Operating Costs
C o   _                _     _     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __.I . ._
Labor (min. salary Bs/m)    32,000    49,900    67,400    79,900    88,300
Energy (Bs/KWh)             13.2      18.5     23.1      26.2      28.2
Chemicals (Bs/Tn)        57,000   103,000   154,000   195,000   224,000
Local Purchases*            1.00      1.52      1.97     2.30      2.52
* Inflation correction factor
17.   The financial projections assume that personnel costs will constitute about the
same proportion of O&M costs as today. It also assumes that personnel costs will
represent about 75% of administration costs.
18.   Depreciation. Fixed assets will be reevaluated annually according to inflation.
The average annual depreciation rate is assumed to be 4%, calculated using a straight line
method.
19.   Taxes. AdM pays the general tax to local purchases of equipment and goods
(12.5 %), income tax (30%) and assets tax (0.25% on fixed active assets). AdM is
exempt from municipal taxes.
20.   Financial Expenses. Since AdM does not have any outstanding debt service,
only interest charges corresponding to the subloan between AdM and the national
government for the transfer of project proceeds are included as financial expenses in the
projections. These peak at about 3,200 million Bs in year 2001 to diminish later. In
order to control AdM's indebtedness, targets will also be included for the debt service
coverage ratio, that should remain above 2 through the end of the repayment period,
considering additional yearly investments in the order of 5% of fixed assets after project
completion (these investment program has been built into the financial projection for the



Annex K
Page 7 of 12
project). Interests of the subloan will be capitalized and re-financed during the four years
construction period.
Flow of Funds. Sources
21.   Internal Cash Generation. With the conservative assumptions used in the
financial projections, AdM is expected to maintain adequate working capital and a
positive cash balance during project execution, and to generate increasingly positive
balances from this year onwards. AdM is expected to cover 12, 17 and about 33 % of
investment needs in years 1997, 1998 and 1999 and 2000 and 100% from that year.
22.   Government Grant Transfers. National, state and local support is expected to
continue in 1996 to cover cash operating deficits and into 1998 to contribute to
counterpart funds in 1997 and 1998, when it will cease. A grant contribution of 301
million Bs from the national government is projected as necessary in 1,996 to cover the
operation deficit and about 4,900 million Bs are projected to cover counterpart financing
of the planned investment program (about 12% of the roughly 42,400 million Bs
investment program).
23.   Loans.  AdM's debt only includes the subsidiary loan with the national
government for the transfer of project proceeds. Smaller bridge loans from commercial
banks have not been considered in the financial projections, although they might be
probably necessary. Other indebtedness of AdM will be limited by the agreed targets on
the debt service coverage ratio (equal or higher than 2 for the repayment period) that the
company must maintain.
Flow of Funds. Uses
24.   Debt Service. The targets given for AdM financial performance and debt service
coverage are relatively modest based on the improved profit performance and expected
stronger cash flow projected for the company. Additionally, the financing requirements
for the investment program (about 5% of fixed assets by year on year 2,001, increasing to
9% on year 2,006) represent a relatively pessimistic estimate of the investments AdM
will require to improve service quality and maintain it after project completion.
25.  Investment Program. AdM investment program is based on the analysis of the
works and actions that are required to improve service quality in Monagas and correct the
main causes for weak management of the service in the past. It also includes investments
in the order of 5% of fixed assets after project completion, raising to 9% from year 2,005
and onwards. Yearly investment projections are summarized in table 5 below. They
represent an increase of about four times over the normal yearly investment budget
allocated to the state of Monagas by MARNR (through HIDROCARIBE) and the state
government in recent years (on average, about 800 million Bs yearly).



Annex K
Page 8 of 12
Table 5. Yearly Investment Projections (million current Bs)
This Project       1,539   7,978   10,089   9,871   12,962
Other Investments                                               1,612    1,717
Financial Risks
26.   As a new company with a low level of permanent personnel and tariff levels
which have been adjusted in line with projected financial needs prior to project execution,
AdM starts off on a financial footing stronger than many similar companies supported by
Bank projects. Nevertheless, it faces initially other financial risks primarily related to
operating in a high inflationary environment for the next several years, including
expected devaluation of the currency and variable and high interest rates under the
proposed onlending arrangements. This environment will only make the movement from
a culture of non-payment for water supply and sanitation services to achievement of
financial autonomy for AdM more difficult.
27.   Also related is the risk associated to the availability of the funds that are expected
from the national government, both for the investments that are planned to be carried out
before project effectiveness (which are linked to the initial provision of working capital to
AdM) and for counterpart contribution. A possible worsening of the macroeconomic
situation might aggravate this risk, although it is mitigated by: (i) the strong commitment
of national and local government authorities to the decentralization process and to the
concept of financial sustainability in general and to the project in particular, evidenced by
budgetary allocations made for this project under the Ley Paraguas (despite stiff public
expenditure cuts');  (ii) the agreed obligations of the state government and the
municipalities under the Contract Plan, including the tariff increase adopted during
project preparation and the tariff increase to be adopted before loan effectiveness; (iii) a
financing plan that seeks to reduce dependency from national budget support early in
project implementation; and (iv) by the grouping of the works to be financed under the
project into three rehabilitation packages that can be independently carried out, linked to
the achievement of financial and operation conditions.
28.   The project has been designed to lessen the financial risks through: (i) the
agreement for the capital subsidy from the national government during the early years of
project execution justified by the serious state of neglect and disrepair that characterizes
the system being turned over to the local authorities; (ii) getting clarity on the project's
financial needs by holding discussions with a wide circle of stakeholders in the executive
I     Although these allocations have been approved and maintained in the recent budget cuts, they
have not yet been made available since they are linked to the issuance of the national debt bonds, which
has not been made yet for 1995.



Annex K
Page 9 of 12
and legislative branches of the national government and local governments and broad
consultation with the affected communities and agreeing on mutual obligations, formalized
in the project's Contract Plan; (iii) utilizing the services of a private operator to introduce
efficiencies before tariff adjustments are made, and provide tangible evidence of improved
services to make the tariff adjustments, when required, more supportable; and (iv) linking
the third package of rehabilitation investments with compliance with the agreed financial
and operating targets of the Contract Plan. In essence, therefore, the principal risk to the
financial viability of the project relates to the political willingness to: (a) make future
adjustments to tariffs in the context of high domestic inflation and adjustments to the
exchange rate;  and (b) maintain the agreed national government's counterpart
contributions. To highlight the impact of these key factors on the company's finances, the
following analysis looking at possible changes introduced by lower-than-expected revenues,
exchange rate and domestic inflation impacts and slower reductions in unaccounted-for-
water was carried out and is shown below.
29.   Internal Revenue Risks. AdM's most important risk is associated with lower-
than-expected revenues, either because of delays, reduction or lack of adoption of tariff
level adjustments, or because collection/billing/accounted-for-water efficiency is not
improved according to projected targets. Should either of these two factors take place,
they would have a large impact on AdM's finances and could make the company's
investment program not viable. This can be seen in tables 6 and 7 below, which show the
large impact that would have a fall in tariffs and collection rates of 5-20% below what is
projected on the net income, net cash flow (aggregated between 1997 and 2001) and
required government support (aggregated between 1996 and 2000 for investments). As
can be seen in these tables, decreases of just 5% in the tariff increases that would result
from the application of the adjustment formula would reduce net income and cash flow
by 29 and 47% respectively, and require an increment of grant support of 23%, with
similar impacts for reductions in the billing efficiency below the agreed targets.
Decreases in the order of 20% would make the company and the investment plan
financially un-viable.
Table 6. Estimated Impact of a Reduction in the Tariff Adjustment Projected for
the year 1997*
................ ........~......................   *......* -* * ** * * * = (
Net Income                        -29%       -57%       -86%      -100%
Net Cash Flow                     -47%       -77%       -100%      -100%
Government Grants to Investment   +23%       +49%       +75%      +102%
*Reduction percentages against the estimated tariff (170 Bs/m') at the end of the year and the
corresponding tariffs are shown



Annex K
Page 10 of 12
Table 7. Estimated Impact of a Reduction in the Billing Efficiency target for the
year 2000
......   .t ..e   ..... i n   .   ......%.....     .......
-Biling Effic.en.cy   :..76% .....id-,.. i,.... i.: R6% 
Net Income                        -25%        -50%       -75%      -100%
Net Cash Flow                     -46%        -75%      -100%      -100%
Government Grants to Investment   +21%       +45%        +70%       +94%
*Reduction percentages against the estimated collection rate (80%) and the corresponding collection rates
are shown
30.   However, this risk in unlikely because it is expected that restrictions on national
government expenditures during the project execution period will not likely permit a
return to the centralized pattern of funding of investment of the past, forcing local
authorities to comply with the provisions of the contract plan and ensure than tariffs are
maintained at the agreed levels, in line with the recent tariff increases adopted before
negotiations. The involvement of a private operator to manage AdM will also contribute
to mitigate this risk through the introduction of better management and commercial
practices.
31.   Exchange Rate Risk. AdM's principal exchange rate exposure is linked to the
impact it would have on the cost of imported goods and services to be financed under the
project and on the debt service of the bolivar-denominated subloan that this increase of
costs would generate (exchange rate risks for loan repayment will remain with the
national government). The impact on net income, net cash flow and required government
support of 5-40% increases of the expected official exchange rate at the end of 1997 are
presented in table 8 below. As can be seen, the impact of further devaluations is small
(mainly due to the automatic adjustment of tariffs), and this risk's impact might be further
mitigated by reductions in the proposed investment plan or small increments in the grant
contributions from the national government.
Table 8. Estimated Impact of Changes in the Expected Exchange Rate at the End of
1997
va*iatj;n                10%~       ~~~~~ 20%
Net Income                         -1%        -3%         -5%       -10%
Net Cash Flow                      -9%       -18%        -24%       -32%
Government Grants to Investment    +0%        +0%        +1%        +6%
Incrementa' percentages against the estimated exchange rate at the end of 1997 (850 Bs/US$) and the
corresponding rates are shown
32.   Domestic Inflation Rate Risk. AdM's exposure to domestic inflation is mainly
linked to the impact it might have on the exchange rate and less to the impact it will have



Annex K
Page 11 of 12
on operation and maintenance costs. If tariffs are adjusted according to the adjustment
formula, the impact could even be positive on the net income figures in current bolivares.
In the following table 9 the impact on the net income, net cash flow and required
government support of 5-40% increments in the expected domestic inflation rate are
shown to be small.
Table 9. Estimated Impact of Changes in the Expected Domestic Inflation Rate for
the year 1997
I~~'tr~entage vari~fion~'  .%  .....     ....    %  ...... %..
flwation nERae*xY                          - 6t          0 -0 -
Net Income                       +1%        +1%        +3%        +2%
Net Cash Flow                    -13%       -18%       -14%       -18%
Government Grants to Investment    +0%      +2%        +7%       + 17%
* lncremental percentages of the average inflation estimated for 1997 (50%) and the corresponding
inflation rates are shown
3X3. Interest Rate of Subsidiary Loan. The interest rate for the subsidiary loan to
AdM is assumed to respond to changes in the inflation rate. If interest rate increases are
above these projections, AdM's main risk will be associate with its difficulty in
transferring the incremental cost to consumers without a tariff increase, since this element
is not included as part of the updating formula. In the following table 10, changes for the
net income, net cash flow (aggregated until 2001 and 2006) and required government
support for the investment plan are presented for different variations of the projected
interest rate. As can be seen, since the interest will be capitalized during the construction
period, the impact of increases in the interest rate will be mainly felt on the cash flow and
income after project completion and on the ability of AdM to repay the loan to the
national government. This risk will be minimized through intensive and close supervision
and the expected continued political commitment and support for the sustainability of the
company and the project objectives, and through these to the adoption of tariff increases
when these are necessary to counteract exceptional circumstances that are external to
AdM's management capacity.
Table 10. Estimated Impact of Increases of the Subsidiary Loan Interest Rate
Net Income (to 2001)             -2%         -4%        -7%       -15%
Net Income (to 2006)              -2%        -5%       -10%       -20%
Net Cash Flow (to 2001)           -4%        -9%       -22%       -50%
Net Cash Flow (to 2006)           -6%       -13%       -29%       -54%
Government Grants to Investment    +0%      +0%        +0%        +0%
*Changes over the estimated average interest rate for 1997 (39%) and the average interest rates are shown



Annex K
Page 12 of 12
34.   Unaccounted-for-Water Risk. AdM's risk of the failure to achieve the reduction
targets established for the unaccounted-for-water are associated to reduced revenues and
increased operation costs that can not be transferred to the consumers through tariff
updates. In the following table II the impact on the net income, net cash flow and
required government support are presented for different reductions of unaccounted-for-
water against the projected targets for the year 2000.  The risks associated to reduced
targets for unaccounted-for-water will be minimized through the involvement of a private
operator with proved experience in this field and the adoption of an investment program
that will concentrate on rehabilitation and on metering.
Table 11. Estimated Impact of Reduction of Unaccounted-for-Water Targets for the
year 2000
Net Income                         -6%        -12%        -26%      -61%
Net Cash Flow                      -24%       -29%       -43%        -78%
Government Grants to Investment    +3%        +9%        +24%       +60%
Reduction percentages on the estimated unaccounted-for-water targets for the year 2000 (40%) and
corresponding unaccounted-for-water levels are shown



VENEZUELA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE DECENTRALIZATION
PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
Project Cost Estimates
(million US$)
REGIONAL COMPONENT                              8.6      39.1     47.7    67.1%
1. AdM Support Subcomponent                     8.6     34.4      43.0    60.5%
l.a. Institutional Support to AdM            3.4       0.8      4.2     5.9%
L.b. Rehabilitation Investments              5.2      33.6     38.8   54.6%
Emergency Works                             0.5       2.7      3.2     4.5%
Priority Rehabilitation Works               2.7      17.3     20.0    28&2%
Worksfor Service Quality Improvement        2.0     13.6      15.6    21.9%
2. Rural Rehabilitation Subcomponent              -       4.7      4.7      6.6%
2.a. Institutional Support                    -       0.9       0.9     1.3%
2.b. Rehabilitation Investments               -       3.7       3.7     5.3%
NATIONAL COMPONENT                              5.6       9.9     15.4   21.7%
TechnicalAssistance Program                 3.0      2.1       5.1      72%
National Training Program                   0.5       3.0      3.5     5.0%
Pre-Investments                             1.8       2.8      4.6     6.5%
Component Manag. and Project Coord.         0.2       2.0      2.2     3.1%
TOTAL COSTS                                    14.2     48.9      63.1    88&8%
Interest during Construction                    8.0         -      8.0    11.2%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                            22.2     48.9      71.1



I



VENEZUELA                                                                             Page I of I
WATER SUPPLY AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
AdM Flmameing Plan (million Bs)
DEMOGRAPHIC DATA
Populationofthe Capital Maturln     334,536    355,592    376,619    391,684    407,351    423,645    440,591    458,215    476,543    495,605    515,429    536,046    557,458    579,788
Populationofintennediatecities      103,365    105,514    107,661    109,814    112,011     114,251    116,536    118,866    121,244    123,669    126,142    128,665    131,238    133,863
Rural population                     94,048     80,463     76,735     75,200      73,696     72,222     70,778     69,362      67,975     66,616     65,283      63,978     62,698     61,444
Total population of Monagas         531,949    541,569    561,015    576,698    593,058    610,118    627,905    646,443    665,762    685,889    706,854    728,689    751,424    775,095
WATER CONNECTONS
Connections registered               67,130     68,230     73,115     78,660      82,249     85,767     89,201     92,540      96,262    100,141    104,183    108,397    112,788    117,366
Population served                   396,825    401,703    429,960    463,721    485,573    506,988    527,897    548,227    570,887    594,503    619,116    644,770    671,508    699,378
% household connected                 90.6%      87.1%      88.8%      92.5%       93.5%      94.3%      94.8%       95.0/.     95.5%      96.0%      96.5%       97.00%     97.5%      98.0/
SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS
Connections registered               39,000     41,932     44,957      49,289     51,959     55,193     60,403      66,347     71,674     76,284      81,138     85,156     89,364      93,770
Population served                   238,095    255,303    273,722    300,094    316,354    336,041    367,761    403,957    436,384    464,455    494,010    518,475    544,094    570,920
% householdconrectd                    54%        55%        57%        60/.       61%         62%        66%        70%         73%        75%        77%         78%.       79%        80/
BILLING AND COLLECTION
Maturi.
Connections billed                   28,700     31,018     31,182      37,598     49,857     54,503     58,507      62,692     66,078     69,645      73,402     77,358     81,524      85.910
Meteed connections billed             1,578      1,238       1,064      1,271      9,514     18,657     29,499      37,668     43,965     49,783      56,042     61,701     66,644      71,912
Volume billed (Mrn3)                  16.45      16.43       18.45      16.42      25.47      27.94      29.96       31.98      33.95      36.01       38.17      40.44      42.81       45.27
Waterbilled(MBs)                       207         288        704       1,301      3,440      5,429       7,343      8,973     10,391     11,704      13,072     14,589     16,272      18,121
Otherservicesbilled(MBS)                            12         13        166        318         483        747       1,074      1,399       1,670      1,977      2,243      2,551       2,894
Cashrevenues(MBS)                        68        172        207        954       2,752      4,508       6,351      8,038      9,727      11,368     13,168     15,149     17,411      19,964
Receivable ccounts (MBS)                 12         25        226        489        971       1,379       1,787      2,093      2,374      2,600       2,822      3,039      3,268       3,502
Non-receivableaccounts(MBS)             127        114        310        250         524        995       1,332      1,703      1,782       1,780      1,660      1,466       1,183       816
Averagecollectionperiod(Months)         4.0        4.0         4.0        4.0        3.1        2.8         2.7        2.5        2.4        2.3         2.3        2.2        2.1         2.0
Intermediate Cides
Connections billed                    8,942     10,512       6,661      9,992     13,230      14,478     15,452     16,342     16,900      17,476     18,071     18,684      19,316     19,969
Meteredconnectionsbilled                -          -           44        831       2,955      5,356       7,969      9,850     11,274     12,520      13,822     14,926     15,814      16,737
Voluwe billed (Mm3)                    2.71       2.64       4.48        4.99       6.41       7.03        7.50       7.89       8.19       8.49        8.81       9.13       9.46        9.80
Waterbilled(MBS)                        21          41        124        316        856       1,347       1,814      2,183      2,468      2,715       2,963      3,233      3,526       3,840
Otherservicesbilled(MBS)                -            2          2         28          63         99        176        270         327        381        441         489        544        603
Cash revenues (MBS)                      9          21         23        206        652        1,085      1,552      1,963      2,306      2,631       2,978      3,349      3,764       4,222
Receivableaccounts(MBS)                  2           3         24        114        237         338        439        511         563        602        638         672        707        741
Non-receivable accounts (MBS)            10         20         82         47         144        261        336        419         437        425        389         338        271         188
Average collection period (Months)      4.0        4.0         4.0        4.0        3.1        2.8         2.7        2.5        2.4         2.3        2.3        2.2         2.1        2.0



VENEZUELA                                                                           Page 2 of 8
WATER SUPPLY AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
AdM Financing Plan (million Bs)
Totel of the State of Monagas
Connections billed                  37,642     41,530     37,843     47,590     63,087     68,981     73,959     79,034     82,978      87,121     91,472     96,042    100,840    105,879
Mcteredconnectionsbilled             1,578      1,238      1,108      2,102     12,469     24,012     37,469     47,519     55,240     62,304     69,864      76,627     82,458     SS,648
Volume billed (Mm3)                    19        19.1       22.9       21.4       31.9       35.0       37.5       39.9       42.1        44.5       47.0       49.6       52.3       55.1
Waterbilled(MBS)                      228        329         828      1,617      4,296      6,777      9,157      11,156     12,859     14,419     16,035     17,822     19,798     21,961
Otherservicesbilled(MBS)               -           14         15        194        380        582        923       1,344      1,726      2,051      2,417      2,731      3,095      3,497
Cash revenues (MBS)                     78        193        230       1,160     3,404      5,593       7,903     10,000     12,032     13,999     16,146     18,498     21,176     24,186
Receivable accounts (MBS)               14         29        250        604      1,208       1,717     2,226       2,604      2,937      3,202      3,460      3,711      3,974      4,243
Non-receivable accounts (MBS)          137        134        392        297        667       1,257      1,668      2,122      2,219      2,205      2,049      1,804      1,454      1,004
Average collection period (Months)     4.0        4.0        4.0        4.0        3.1         2.8        2.7        2.5        2.4        2.3        2.3        2.2        2.1        2.0
Percentage of Billing
Maturin                              53.4%      57.7%      54.2%      60.3%      76.6%       80.4%      82.9%      85.4%      86.2%      87.0°/.    87.8%      88.6%      89.4%      90.2%
Intermediate Cities                  66.6%      72.7%      42.8%      61.4%      77.0%       80.6%      83.0%      85.5%      86.3%      87.0%      87.9%/.    88.7%      89.5%       90.3%
AvcragcefortheState                  56.1%      60.9%      51.8%      60.5%       76.7%      80.4%      82.9%a     85.4%      86.2%      87.0%J     87.8%      88.6%      89.4%       90.2%
Percentage of Metering
Maturin                               2.9%       2.3%        1.8%      2.0%/o     14.6%      27.5%      41.8%      51.3%      57.3%      62.2%      67.0%/     70.Ph      73.1%       75.5%
IntermediateCities                    0.0%       0.0%       0.3%       5.1%       17.2%      29.8%      42.8%      51.5%      57.5%      62.4%      67.2%      70.8%      73.2%       75.7%
Average forthe State                  2.4%       1.8%       1.5%       2.7%       15.2%     28.0%       42.0%      51.3%      57.4%      62.2%      67.1%      70.7%      73.1%       75.5%
Collection over Billing (%)
Maturin                              33.1%      57.4%      28.9°/     65.0%      73.3%       76.3%      78.5%      80.0%      82.5%      85.0%      87.5%      90.0%/     92.5%       95.0/
Internediate Cities                  44.1%      49.4%      17.9°/     60.0°/     71.0°/      75.00/     78.00/     80.0%      82.5%      85.0°%     87.5%      90.0°/     92.5%       95.0%
Average forthe State                 34.1%      56.4%      27.2%      64.1%      72.8%       76.0%      78.4%      80.0%/.    82.5%      85.0°/.    87.5%      90.0/      92.5%       95.0/.
Year avg. resid. tariff (Bs/m3)       17.5       17.5       40.0       75.0       139.1      201.2      254.8      292.9      318.9      338.0      355.7      374.3       393.9      414.6
Water Produced (Mm3)
Amana-Maturln System                 27.00      27.50      24.00      27.25      32.50       32.1S      32.23      33.37      35.07      36.82      38.63      40.51      42.46       44.44
ETAPGuGrapiche                       13.24      13.24       17.00     20.00      20.00       20.00      20.00      20.00      20.00      20.00      20.00      20.00       20.00      20.00
Wells                                 4.40       4.40       4.40       4.40       4.40        4.40       4.40       4.40       4.40       4.40       4.40       4.40        4.40       4.40
ETAP-Interrnediatecities             18.92      18.92      22.00       13.32      10.48      10.08       9.84       9.84       9.97       10.10      10.24      10.39      10.54      10.69
Total for the State                  63.56      64.06      67.40      64.97      67.39       66.67      66.47      67.62      69.44      71.32      73.28       75.30      77.40      79.53



VENEZUELA                                                                                       Page 3 of 8
WATER SUPPLY AND DECENTRAL[ZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
AdM Financing Plan (million Bs)
1100        001-        _002
Unaccounted-for Water
Maturln                                     60°/         60%         55%          65%         51%          46%          43%         40%          38%         37%          35%/1        33%          32%         30°/.
Intermediate Cities                         88%          88%         82%          70%          54%         48%          43%         40%          38%          37%         35%          33%          32%         30%/6
Average for the State                       70%/.        70%         65%          66%         52%          47%          43%         40%          38%         37%          35%          33%          32%         30%
Total Expenses                            372.5        630.3      1,041.2      1,148.5     2,224.3      3,083.8     3,743.1      4,263.3     4,6883       5,069.2      5,485.6     5,941.0      6,439.2      6,981.1
O&M and Operator Expenses                  148.3       277.7        458.1       5398       1,1121       1,541.9      1,871.6     2,131.7      2,344.2     2,534.6      2,742.8     2,970.5      3,219.6      3,490.5
Chemicals                                   75.2       120.5        200.9       209.3        398.4       592.6        748.7        875.8       982.0      1,078.5      1,184.9      1,302.0     1,431.0      1,572.4
Power                                      113.4       1378         226.5       204.2        268.9       332.5        374.3        403.2       424.5        442.2       460.8        480.3        500.7        521.9
Administration                              35.6        94.4        155.7       195.3        444.9       616.8        748.6        852 7       937.7       1,013.8     1,097.1      1.188.2      1,287.8     1,396.2
ANNUAL VARIATIONS
Water connections                           n/a           2%           7%          8/%          5%          4%           4%           4%          4%           4%           4%          4%           4%           4%
%ofmeteredconnections                        nta        -22%         -11%         90°/.       493%         93%          56%          27%         16%          13%          12%         10%           8%           8%
Sewerage connections                        nta           8%           7%         100/h         5%          6%           9°/.        10°/.        8%           6%           6%          5%           5%           5%
M3 produced                                 n/a           0°/.         5%         -4%           4%          -1%          0%           2%          3%           3%           3%          3%           3%           3%
M3 billed                                   n/a           0°/.       200/.        -7%          49%         100/.         7%           6%          6%           6%           6%          6%           5%           5%
Average Tariffs                              n/a          0%/.       129%         88%          85%         45%          27%          15%          9%/.         6%           5%          5%           5%           5%
MBSbilled                                   n/a          50°/.       146%        115%         158%         57%          37%          24%         17%          13%          12%         11%          11%          11%
MBS collected                               n/a         149°/         19°/.      405%         194%         64%          41%          27%,o       20%          16%          15%         15%          14%          14%
%ofcollection                               n/a          66%         -52%        135%          14%          4%           3%           2%          3%           3%           3%          3%           3%           3%
Unaccounted-for Water                       n/a           00/%        -7%          2%         -22%        -10%/o        -8%          -6%         -4%          -4%          -5%         -5%          -5%          -5%



VENEZUELA                                                                                Page 4 of 8
WATER SUPPLY AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
AdM Financing Plan (milliom Bs)
INVESTMENT PLAN                               (million Bs, current)
AdM Institutional Strengthening                                              -         520.2      719.3      1,261.4    2,182.7
Consultant services                                                                  482.3       719.3     1,261.4    2,182.7
Equipment                                                                  -          37.9         -
Systems Rehabilitation                                                    1,320.0    6,426.0     7,906.2     7,027.6    8,525.4
Equipment                                                                792.0    2,171.2      2,856.4     2,650.9    2,847.5
Civil works                                                              528.0    4,254.8      5,049.7     4,376.7    5,677.9
Total annual investment                                                    1,320       6,946      8,625       8,289      10,708
Physical contingencies                                                     132.0      670.5       826.6       765.8       961.7
Price Contingencies                                                          9.9       167.6      402.8       608.3     1,073.2
Subtotal                                                                   1,462       7,784      9,%55       9,663      12,743
Taxes                                                                       76.7       193.2      233.8       207.4       219.0
Interest during construction                                                         1,642.5     3,290.7     3,807.1    4,032.7
Total financing Required                                                   1,539       9,620      13,379      13,678     16,995
Sublosa disb.rseme.ts
Studies and designs                                                         -          518         789       1,417      2,511
Equipmfent                                                                 658       1,863       2,457       2,022      2,221
Civil Works                                                                322       2,631       3,185       2,311       3,067
Total yeses reimburnsents                                                  979       5,011       6,430       5,750       7,799
Interest                                                                    -        1,643       3,291       3,807      4,033
Total yes boowing                                                                    6,654       9,721       9,557      11,831
Retroative fiancing                                                         -          979
Total                                                                        -         7,633       9,721       9,557     11,831
Required Counterpart                                                       1,539       2,966       3,658       4,121      5,163
Counterpart faods (MBS)
AdM internal cash generation                                                 -         1,103       2,175       4,121      5,163
Grnt Co qtribution                                                          1,539      1,863       1,483         -          -
Naioal Govament                                                            308         932         742
Stte Goverunent                                                            923         559         445
Municipalities Mancomunidad                                                308         373         297         -
Counterpart omeres (%)
AdM inteal cah genertion                                                    0%Y        37%         59%        100%       100%
National Goveanment                                                        20%         31%         20%          0Y,        0%
State Govermment                                                           60%         19%         12%          0%         0%
Municipalities                                                             20%         13%          8%          0%         0%



VENEZUELA                                                                          Page 5 of 8
WATER SUPPLY AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
AdM Financing Plan (million Bs)
i- vio-M                           , 1pi 96p9w",
BALANCE SHEETS                            (million Bs, current)
Assets
Fixed Assets in Service, begin      1,238     2,952      5,757      9,511     18,738     35,241     56,055     75,557     95,402    105,650    113,281    122,100    132,398    144,346
Revaluation                         594      1,417      2,764      5,307      9,655     10,665      9,254      7,311      6,198      5,916      6,344      6,838      7,414      8,083
Additions - Withrawals            1,120      1,388        990      3,920      6,848     10,149     10,247     12,535      4,051      1,714      2,475      3,461      4,533      4,932
FixedAssets inService,end          2,952      5,757      9,511     18,738     35,241     56,055     75,557     95,402    105,650    113,281    122,100    132,398    144,346    157,361
Acc. revaluated Depreciation          84        298        747      1,728      3,698      6,644     10,373     14,796     19,778     25,264     31,386     38,234     45,910     54,515
Total net Fixed Assets             2,868      5,459      8,765     17,010     31,543     49,412     65,184     80,607     85,873     88,017     90,714     94,164     98,436    102,846
Works in Progress                    637        446        220        308      1,596      2,018      1,974      2,592       322        343         528       726        942        984
Fixed Assets                        3,505      5,905      8,985     17,318    33,139      51,429    67,158      83,199     86,195    88,361     91,242     94.890     99,377    103,830
Current Assets                        229        293        533       1,068     2,936      3,950      4,630      5,686      7,414      7,005      6,495      6,240      6,790      8.0i6
Cash: Operational Requirement         208        254        265        448       1,700     2,195      2,269      2,871       1,050     1,131      1,354      1,595      1,858      1,984
Cash: Temporally Investment            -                     -                                           89        158      3,369      2,609       1,613       861        879      1,703
Accounts Receivable                    14         29        250        604      1,208       1,717     2,226      2,604      2,937      3,202      3,460      3,711      3,974      4,243
Inventory                              7.8       10.6       17.6      17.0       27.4       38.0       46.1       52.6       57.8       62.5       67.6       73.2       79.4       86.1
TotalAssets                          3,734     6,198       9,518     18,386    36,074     55,380     71,789     88,885     93,609     95,366     97,737    101,131    106,168    111,846
Equity and Liabilities
Long-term debt, initial balance                                        -          979      7,633     17,354     26,911     38,742     38,742     35,514     32,285     29,057     25,828
Long-term debt, incurred                                              -        6,654      9,721      9,557     11,831       -          -          -          -          -          -
Current Portion                                                       -          -          -          -          -          -        3,229      3,229     3,229      3,229       3,229
Long-term Debt                                                         -        7,633     17,354     26,911     38,742     38,742     35,514     32,285     29,057     25,828     22,600
Total long-term Debt                                                   -        7,633      17,354    26,911     38,742     38,742     35,514     32,285     29,057     25,828     22,600
Accounts Payable                     262.2     258.8       368.8     238.3      444.9      616.8      748.6      852.7      937.7    1,013.8    1,097.1    1,188.2    1,287.8    1,396.2
To Contractors                      87.7       125.8      223.8     135.0      278.0      385.5      467.9      532.9      586.0      633.7      685.7      742.6      804.9      872.6
ToSuppliers                         174.5      133.0      145.0     103.4      166.8      231.3      280.7      319.8      351.6      380.2      411.4      445.6      482.9      523.6
Retention                            262.2     258.8       368.8                  -                     -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Current portion Long-term debt        -          -           -         -          -          -          -          -          -        3,229      3,229      3,229      3,229      3,229
Total Current Liabilities             262        259        369        238        445        617        749        853        938      4,242      4,326      4,417      4,516      4,625
Total Liabilities                     262        259        369        238      8,078      17,971    27,660     39,595     39,680     39,756     36,611     33,474     30,345     27,225
Total Equity                        3,472      5,939       9,149     18,148    27,996     37,409     44,129     49,290     53,929     55,610     61,126     67,657     75,823     84,621
Total Liability and Equity           3,734     6,198       9,518     18,386    36,074      55,380    71,789     88,885     93,609     95,366     97,737    101,131    106,168    111,846



VENEZUELA                                                                          Page 6 of 8
WATER SUPPLY AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
AdM Financing Plan (million Bs)
Debtas%ofDebt+EquityRatio              00/        0%         0°/        0o1/      21%        32%        38%        44%        42%        39%/6      35%        30%        25%        21%
Debtas%ofAssetsvariation               0%/        0°/        0%/.      0o0/       43%        90%/0     164%       227%       820%      2021%      1362%       856%       513%       398%
Current Ratio                          0.9        1.1        1.4        4.5        6.6        6.4        6.2        6.7        7.9        1.7        1.5        1.4        1.5        1.7
Quick Ratio                            0.8        1.1        1.4        4.4        6.5        6.3        6.1        6.6        7.8        1.6        1.5        1.4        1.5        1.7
Working Capital
Current Assets                       229.1      292.9      532.8    1,068.5    2,935.7    3,950.4    4,541.1    5,527.7    4,045.0    4,396.1    4,881.8    5,379.2    5,911.7    6,313.0
Cash: Operational req.              207.9      253.7      265.3      447.9    1,700.3    2,195.4    2,268.9    2,870.9    1,050.1    1,131.1    1,354.4    1,594.9    1,857.9    1,983.8
Accounts Receivable                  13.5       28.6      250.0      603.6    1,207.9    1,717.0    2,226.0    2,604.2    2,937.1    3,202.4    3,459.8    3,711.1    3,974.4    4,243.1
Inventory                             7.8       10.6       ;7.6       17.0       27.4       38.0       46.1       52.6       57.8       62.5      67.6       73.2        79.4      86.1
Current Liabilities                  262.2      258.8      36E.S      238.3      444.9      616.8      748.6      852.7      937.7    1,013.8    1,097.1    1,188.2    1,287.8    1,396.2
Accounts Payable                    262.2      258.8      368.8      238.3      444.9      616.8      748.6      852.7      937.7    1,013.8    1,097.1    1,188.2    1,287.8    1,396.2
Short-tern Debt                       -          -          -          -          -          -          -          --                    -          -          -          -         -
Working Capital                      (33.1)      34.1      164.0      830.1    2,490.8    3,333.6    3,792.4    4,675.0    3,107.3    3,382.2    3,784.7    4,191.0    4,623.9    4,916.7
Variation in Working Capital           (33)        67        130        666      1,661       843         459        883     (1,568)       275       402        406        433        293



VENEZUELA                                                                               Page 7 of 8
WATER SUPPLY AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
AdM Financing Plan (million B3)
I d . ^.-09N1  .gw                                                    ,. 1,ffi,~~~§2.ft3*fTl1E2ft
INCOME STATEMENT                             (million Bs, current)
Total Billings                          228         342        843       1,811       4,676      7,358      10,080     12,500      14,584      16,470     18,452     20,554      22,893      25,459
Water Service                          228        329         828       1,617      4,296      6,777       9,157      11,156     12,859      14,419     16,035      17,822     19,798      21,961
Other                                    0          14         15         194        380        582         923       1,344       1,726      2,051      2,417       2,731      3,095       3,497
Operating Expenses                     509.2      7644      1,432.9     1,445.9    2,891.4     4,340.5    5,411.2    6,385.2     6,9077      7,274.4    7,534.8    7,745.1      7,892.8    7,985.3
O&M and Operators expenses             148.3      277.7       458.1      539.8    1,112.1      1,541.9    1,871.6    2,131.7     2,344.2    2,534.6    2,742.8    2,970.5    3,219.6    3,490.5
Energy and chemicals                   188.6      258.3       427.3      413.5       667.3      925.1     1,122.9    1,279.0      1,406.5    1,520.8    1,645.7     1,782.3     1,931.8    2,094.3
Administration                          35.6       94.4       155.7      195.3       444.9      616.8       748.6      852.7       937.7    1,013.8    1,097.1      1,188.2    1,287.8     1,396.2
Non-receivable accounts (MBS)          136.6      134.1       391.8      297.4       667.1     1,256.7    1,668.1    2,121.8    2,219.4    2,205.1    2,049.2       1,804.1     1,453.6    1,004.3
Income before dcpreciation              (282)      (422)       (590)       365       1,785      3,018       4,669      6,115       7,677      9,195      10,918      12,809     15,000      17,473
Depreciation                             84         174        305         565       1,080      1,826       2,632      3,419       4,021      4,379       4,708       5,090      5,535       6,034
Operating Income                        (365)      (596)       (895)      (200)       705        1,192      2,036      2,696       3,656      4,817       6,210       7,719      9,465      11,439
Financial Charges                         0           0          0           0          0           0          0           0       4,207      4,207       3,857       3,506      3,156       2,805
Net Income (beforc taxes)               (365)      (596)       (895)      (200)       705       1,192       2,036      2,696        (552)       609       2,353       4,212      6,309       8,634
Tax on Income                             na          na         na          na         na          na         na          na          0        183         706       1,264      1.893       2,590
TaxonFixedAssets                          na          na         na          na         na          na         na          na        215        220        227         235         246        257
Net Income                              (365)      (596)       (895)      (200)       705       1,192       2,036      2,696        (766)       206       1,420       2,713      4,170       5,787
Operating Ratio                       260.5%     274.3%      206.2%      111.0%      84.9%/6    83.8%       79.8%      78.4%       749%/6      70.8%      66.3%       62.4%      58.7%       55.1%
Working Ratio                         223.7%     223.4%      170.00/o    79.8%       61.8%      59.0%       53.7%      51.1%       47.4%      44.2%       40.8%       37.7%      34.5%       31.4%
RateofRetum                           -25.5%     -14.3%      -12.6%      -1.6%        2.90/e     2.9%/e      3.6%       3.7%       -0.90/.      0.2%       1.6%        2.90/e     4.3%        5.7%



VENEZUELA                                                                             Page 8 of 8
WATER SUPPLY AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
AdM Financing Plan (million Bs)
CASH FLOW STATEMENT                          (million Bs, current)
Beginning Net Cash Bal.                 -           -          -                     979         -          -            89        158      3,369       2,609      1.613        861        879
Net cash balance (last year)           -                      -          -           -          -          -            89        158      3,369       2,609      1,613        861        879
Loan dirsbursement (retroactive)                                         -          979
Cross Internal Cash Gen.               (282)       (422)      (590)       365       1,785      3,018      4,669       6,115      7.677      9,195      10,918     12,809      15,000     17,473
Income before depreciation            (282)      (422)      (590)       365        1,785      3.018      4,669      6,115       7,677      9,195     10,918      12,809     15.000      17,473
Other income                                                  -                     -           -          -                -          -                                       -          -
Debt Service                            -          -           -          -           -          -          -           -        4,207      7,436       7,085      6,735      6,384       6,033
Amortization                                       -          -          -           -          -          -           -          -        3,229       3.229      3.229      3,229       3,229
Financial Charges                                 -           -          -                      -          -           -        4,207      4,207       3,857      3,506      3,156       2.805
Working Capital Needs                   (33)        67         130        666       1,661        843        459         883     (1,568)       275        402         406        433         293
Taxes                                   -           -          -          -           -          -          -           -          215        403         933      1,499       2,139      2,847
Funds available for Inv.               (248)       (489)      (720)      (301)      1,103      2,175      4,210       5,322      4,981       4,450      5,106      5,782       6,905      9,178
Investment Program                      875        892         551       1,539      7,978     10.089      9,871      12,962      1,612       1,717      2,641      3,629       4,708      4,922
Proposed Project                       -           -          -         1,539      7,978     10,089      9,871      12,962        -           -          -          -           -          -
Other investment                       875        892         551                    -          -           -          -         1,612      1,717      2.641      3,629       4,708      4,922
Capitalized interests                   -           -          -           -        1,643      3,291       3,807      4,033        -           -                     -           -          -
Total Investment Costs                  875        892         551       1,539      9,620     13,379      13,678     16,995       1,612      1,717      2,641      3,629       4,708      4,922
ContributiontoInv. Program               0°/.       0°/.        0%         0%/6       11%        16%        31%         31%       100%       100%/o      100%       100%        100/%      100/.
Financing Requirements                  875        892         551       1,539      8,517     11,204      9,468      11,673                         -                -                      -
Subloan Disbursements                   -           -          -           -        6,654      9,721       9,557     11,831
Reimbursement of year Inv.             -           -                               5,011      6,430       5,750      7,799
Capitalized interest                                                      -        1,643      3,291       3,807      4,033
Grants for nv. Counterpart              875        892         551       1,539      1,863       1,483
National Governnent                    875        892         275        308         932        742
State Government                       -           -          165        923         559        445
Municipalities                         -           -          110        308         373        297                    -          -           -          -          -           -
Surplus (deficit) of Funds             (248)       (489)      (720)       (301)       -           -          89         158       3,369      2,733      2,465       2,153      2,197      4,256
Dividends                               -           -          -           -          -          -           -          -           -          124        852       1,292      1,318      2,554
Net Surplus of Funds                   (248)       (489)      (720)       (301)                              89         158       3,369      2,609       1,613       861         879       1,703
Grants to cover cash dcficit          248.4       489.4      720.0       301.2                                                                       -          -                -          -
National Government                  248.4      489.4       720.0       180.7
State Government                       -                      -         120.5
Municipalities                                                                                                                                                                  -
Net Chb balance year-end                 -          -           -          -          -           -           89        158       3,369      2,609       1,613       861         879       1,703



Annex L
Page I of 14
VENEZUELA
WATER AND SEWERAGE DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
Economic Analysis
A. Summary
1.    Without the proposed project, it can be expected that the distribution network in Monagas will
continue to deteriorate, current shortages will become more severe and losses will continue to increase
due to lack of maintenance. With the project, a gradual improvement is expected, generating benefits
through the rehabilitation of the distribution network, better operational and financial management and
reduction of losses from waste, excessive consumption and the system's disrepair. The economic
benefits of the project will be derived from (i) the reallocation of water among users and (ii) the
reduction of physical losses. In order to measure the impact of reallocation, it is assumed that a
gradual shift from areas with unlimited consumption to shortage areas will take place in the next 5
years as a result of the proposed project. This shift will reallocate as much as 10% (5.5 Mm3 per year)
of maximum demand from a "market" which consumes excessive amounts at almost zero price, toward
a "market" which currently has permanent shortages due to low pressures or distribution problems
(deteriorated pipes, non-working valves, in-house leaks, etc.) and where water has a higher economic
value (as detected by the high willingness-to-pay of the population). This reallocation will result in net
gains with a Net Present Value of US$ 10.2 million'. Physical losses are estimated now at about 20
Mm3 per year or nearly one-third of production. The impact of system repairs and operation
improvements on the reduction of losses was estinated assuming that in the next five years, these
losses are reduced by 50%, that is, 10 Mm3 are recovered yearly by the year 2000 and that such
volume will be available to areas with current deficits and to new consumers. The Net Present Value
of the recovery of physical losses is calculated at US$ 20.5 million, resulting in a total benefit with a
Net Present Value of about US$ 30.7 million. The evaluation of benefits and costs of reallocation of
water among users and reduction of losses, based on the existing residential reference tariff rate of Bs
60 per cubic meter  results in an economic rate of return of about 15.2% for the rehabilitation
investments (65% of project costs). Taking into account consumer surplus, the rate of return is 27%.
2.    Additional justification for this project can be provided by the expected impacts at: (a) the
macroeconomic level, where the reduction of public transfers will positively impact the fiscal deficit
without reducing the level of service, as AdM assumes service responsibility and water tariffs are
rationalized. Savings could eventually reach more than US$ 200 million annually in IDROVENs
budget if this approach is expanded nationwide; and (b) the sector level, where the proposed project
will have an important impact not only on promoting a rational structure to administer water supply
systems throughout the country, but will also contribute to the performance of other sectors such as
public health. In the Monagas region, deficient water and sewerage service is regarded as a "public
In this case, there is a zero net transfer in terms of water volumes. Gains are discounted at 12% over a 20
year. As there are no estimates of the marginal cost of capital to use as the discount rate, 12% is used as
point of reference.



Annex L
Page 2 of 14
health problem" by local health authorities, which estimate that 42,000 cases of water-related illnesses
(with a public health cost calculated at US$ 2.4 million annually) can be prevented by improved water
and sanitation services. Concomitant losses in productivity as a result of absences from work due to
illness have been estimated to amount to 56,000 work days per year, at an average additional cost of
about US$ 0.6 million per year
3.    Alternatives. The project design was selected over other alternatives which would have
attempted reform of the sector more rapidly and broadly, because the government of Venezuela
wants to test innovative approaches on a small scale, and because state and local authorities in
Monagas are highly motivated to improve the water utility's performance. Engineering designs
are based on least-cost options. The criteria used for the selection of the rehabilitation works and
their packaging is described in annex F.
B. Background
4.     The state of Monagas has a population of about 540,000. Piped water coverage is over 900/o.
Water production statistics indicate that 64 million m3 of potable water were produced in 1994,2
sufficient to provide over 300 liters to each person daily.3 In some residential areas of Maturin, the
state capital, normal consumption is over 500 liters per capita daily. Yet, during the dry season
(September to May), water scarcity is severe. In the 1994-95 dry season, some areas of the city had no
water 70% of the time; many people in urban areas had to walk long distances to obtain small amounts
from other parts of the city where there is an abundant supply even in the dry season; and many
residents in areas connected to the network had to go to the river to wash their clothes. Water quality
is deficient; excessive counts of coliforms have been found in the water supply, and the incidence of
water-related diseases treated at local hospitals is quite large.
5.    The system is so poorly run that unaccounted-for-water is estimated at 70%, although, it is not
clear how much water is actually produced, and billing has little to do with consumption. It has been
estimated that, in some years, as little as 14 million m3 of the estimated 64 million m3 produced are
billed. Only a few water meters are read and revenues cover only 25% of operation and maintenance
costs. The system has been heavily subsidized by the central government.
Supply
6.    Potable water to the municipalities of the state of Monagas is supplied by a combination of
surface and ground water systems. The main systems are the Amana-Maturin and Guarapiche which
supply water to the city of Maturin. The rest are small surface intakes and deep wells. A summary of
the total available supply of potable water is presented in Table I below.4 There is no information
This is after losses in transmission mains estimated at 20 million m3. Reported production was
approximately 90 million m3.
1000 liters per day for a family of 5, or 200 liters per person-day, is considered sufficient to meet basic
requirements.



Annex L
Page 3 of 14
available on private production but it is probably significant given the limited number of industries
connected to the public network.
Table 1. Monagas, Water Supply by Municipality (1994)
Average       Production per
Municipality      Population      Capacity    Production         capita
1/s      ~~I/s            lpd
Maturin a                 322,831       5,590 b        2.018          540
Acosta                     18,027           72            67          321
Libertador                 21,845          160           133          526
Bolivar                    29,126          200            80          237
E. Zamora                  26,307          315           150          493
Cedeilo                    26,333           80            60          197
Caripe                     30,749          110            70          197
Sotillo                    25,173          150           130          446
Punceres                   18,369          150            72          339
Piar                       30,309           80            60          171
Total                     539,069        6,817         2,840          455
Source: Aguas de Monagas, Informe 1994.
a      Includes the Parish of Jusepin which has a small independent system.
b      This capacity would only be available if a reservoir is built at the Amana-Maturin
intake; the treatment plant, however, has a capacity of 4,000 1/s.
7.     Capacity. The system has considerable installed capacity in some processes but it is short in
others. The Mundo Nuevo water treatment plant (at the intake of the main Amana-Maturin system)
has a capacity of 4 m3/s but it has never produced at higher than 1.5 m3/s and, in the dry season, it
operates at close to 0.5 m3/s. The lack of a reservoir. (planned but never built) and the growing demand
for irrigation upstream from the plant does not allow for more than 0.5 m3/s as input to the Amana-
Maturin system during the five dry months of each year. Moreover, close to 60,000 people who live
along the 115 km transmission line betWeen the treatment plant and Maturin use water from this line.
8.     Table I shows installed capacity by municipality. Except for the Amana-Maturin system which
would require considerable investments to make its treatment plant capacity available, there is sufficient
capacity in most systems for the medium term. Even during the dry season a minimum of 1,100 I/s are
available for the city of Maturin, while demand (at 200 lpd) is only 747 I/s. Lack of adequate planning
4      Aguas de Monagas, C.A., Informe sobre la gestion del servicio de agua potable y saneamiento en el
Estado de Monagas. Afio 1994.



Annex L
Page 4 of 14
could be a main obstacle to guarantee water supply from the current systems,5 but expansion will be
facilitated by underutilized processes.
9.     Production. There are no reliable production data for the system. Estimates range from 34 to
62 million m3 (Mm3) per year for Maturin, and from  51 to 94 Mm' for the State of Monagas.
According to Table 1, production in 1994 was approximately 90 Mm3. These estimates are based on
capacity ratings and operating penrods rather than on actual volumes produced. There is no macro-
metering operating in any of the systems. If figures on table I are reliable, there seems to be sufficient
water in most systems. The main problem could be storage capacity to resolve seasonal variations in
surface water systems. Only three municipalities (Piar, Cedeilo and Caripe) may have to expand
production in the short term.
10.    Distribution. Aguas de Monagas reports approximately 45,000 customers connected to the
water supply network, of which 42,000 are residential consumers. Since coverage is over 93% state-
wide, the number of persons per connection is nearly 13. This is relatively high and it may indicate that
a number of connections are not registered.
11.    According to various studies,6 the distribution network needs considerable improvement and it
may be the source of substantial losses. The main problems in distribution are: poor separation of
pressure zones, lack of consumption metering, and deterioration of pipe capacity in the network. The
commercial system (metering, meter reading, billing, collection, claims, and new service installation)
needs a complete overhaul.
12.    These problems are responsible for the deficient distribution of water, especially in Maturin,
where some areas experience severe shortages even when there is sufficient production while others
can consume seemingly unlimited quantities. It has been estimated that as many as 120,000 people are
affected by severe shortages (70% of the time) during the 5-month dry season.
13.    Unaccounted For Water (UFW). Since there are no reliable estimates of production, it is
impossible to estimate UFW with any degree of accuracy. For example, according to March figures,
annual billing for 1995 could be nearly 25 Mm3. This is between 27%  and 49%  of production
(depending on the range of production estimates mentioned above). Therefore, UFW could be
anywhere between 51% and 73%.
14.    Physical losses have been estimated at 20 Mrn3 per year.7 Billing, therefore, would be between
6 and 49 Mm3 short, a considerable loss of revenue for a highly subsidized system. As shown in Table
For example, unless an expansion of storage capacity at the Amana-Maturin intake is planned, the city
should not rely on this system which is delivering decreasing volumes as the city competes for the same
supply with other municipalities along the 114 km transmission line.
A recent diagnosis of the network was made in Tudor Engineering Co. and OBHIDRAConsult C.A.,
P'rovlecto para el desarrollo institucional y la rehabilitaci6n de los sistemas del sector aguo potable y
saneamiento del Fstado de Hfonagas, Venezuela - Evaluaci6n de las condiciones existentes de los
sistemas. Enero de 1992.
According to the Tudor Engineering and OBHIDRAConsult study, op. cit.



Annex L
Page 5 of 14
2 below, less than 25% of costs are covered by revenues collected. There is much work to be done on
this problem some of which is included in the proposed project.
15.   Sewerage. Sewerage services should be treated as part of water supply services under a
modem concept of integrated water management, since all consumers must dispose of used water
whether they are connected to the sewerage network or not. In fact, economic costs may be higher if
they are not connected.
16.    Sewerage service coverage in Monagas is much lower than water supply coverage. However,
because of the area's topography and tropical climate, drainage is a main problem and untreated sewage
is often found in flood waters which become stagnant and are breeding grounds for disease-carrying
insects. Due to leaks in the distribution network, drinking water can also become contaminated.
17.   Supply costs. The water supply system in Monagas is relatively inexpensive. Table 2 shows
its cost structure for altemative estimates of production and for its current level of billing. Even at this
low level of billing (25 out of 64 Mm3), cost per m3 is only Bs 31 (US$ 0.18). This is due to its low
energy costs (the main system is powered by gravity) and, possibly, because the system's operations are
under-budgeted. For example, the use of chemicals is low - which results in poor water quality.
Moreover, commercial costs are low since many of the costs associated with meter reading, billing,
collections, suspensions, etc. are not applicable; in four of the 10 municipalities there is no billing.
Table 2 shows actual costs for 1994 for the combined operations of Monagas water supply.
18.   Although depreciation may be underestimated probably due to a low evaluation of fixed assets,
Table 2 shows that cost per m3 (Bs 31) is less that the new average tariff of Bs 36 per m3. This implies
that an increase in billing would generate net revenues which could help finance important rehabilitation
requirements including the commercial system itself. It must be noted that maintenance costs are
relatively high, yet maintenance is deficient. This is due to deficiencies in the supervision of
maintenance contracts. Such problems could be resolved by the new institutional arrangements.
19.   Total costs are not expected to decline under the new organization; however, average costs
should decrease significantly as water losses decline. For example, most probably, actual consumption
is at nearly 51 Mm3 which, according to Table 2, would have a cost of Bs 15.2 per m3. Cutting water
losses by 20% will increase available production to 64 Mm3 and average cost will fall to Bs 12.1 per
m3. The last column of Table 2 shows average cost per m3 actually billed; even at this low level of
billing, cost per m3 is only Bs 31.



Annex L
Page 6 of 14
Table 2. State of Monagas, Water Supply and Sewerage Cost Structure
Cost category        Total Cost                   Average Costs (Bs.Im') according to
Cost category   Total Cost
(Bs)                             Production levels
94 Mm3        64 Mm'         SI Mm'         25 Mm3
Personnel                    54,652,980         0.581         0.854          1.072          2.186
Operations                   39,733,360         0.423         0.621          0.779          1.589
Chemicals                   120,148,838         1.278         1.877          2.356          4.806
Energy                      123,857,116         1.318         1.935          2.429          4.954
Mlaintenance                287,690,127         3.061         4.495          5.641         11.508
I)epreciation               150,600,000         1.602         2.353          2.953          6.024
TIotal Bs                   776,682,421         8.263        12.136         15.229         31.067
Total USS                     4,568,720         0.049         0.071          0.090          0.183
Revenue collected           193,049,493         2.054         3.016          3.785          7.722
Revenue/cost (%)                 24.86
Source: Aguas de Monagas, Informe 1994.
C. Economic impact of the Proposed Project
20.    The main impact of the proposed project is the improvement in overall service quality and
distribution. The main real implication of the deficiency of the current system is the fact that in some
areas water is abundant and used carelessly while in other areas there are substantial shortages, even
during the rainy season when there is sufficient flow in the Amana-Maturin system, in spite of the high
demand and economic value attributed by the users to the service, as measured in the willingness-to-
pay studies carried out (see annex D for details). The economic rationale for this project is based on
achieving two simple objectives: (a) establishing market, organizational and incentive structures that
are more likely than the present ones to generate economically efficient results; and, (b) rehabilitating
the physical system to ensure that water is treated and supplied in an efficient manner, reducing losses.
If properly executed, the project should be highly productive: water consumption ranges from less than
70 liters per person-day (Ipd) in some areas and over 400 lpd in others; the observed marginal value of
water could be as high as Bs 1000 per m3; and water losses represent roughly 20 million m3 per year.
Therefore, the proposed project will generate important benefits in terms of improved water
distribution, reduction in water losses, rationalization of consumption, and overall economic efficiency.
21.     Cost-benefit analysis.  Economic efficiency gains may be measured by comparing the
outcomes of the system under the current and proposed organizational structures; and, given the new
structure, the additional (marginal) impact of the proposed investments is measured by the improved
availability and quality of service. It must be noted that the two levels are not independent. The best
management structure could not do much to improve water delivery, at present, without some
rehabilitation of the network and facilities.



Annex L
Page 7 of 14
22.   The economic evaluation of this project is directed at comparing the economic efficiency of the
current and proposed structures for operating the water supply system for the state of Monagas. On
the benefits side, this includes a comparison of the current cost structure with that which is likely to be
effective under the proposed management arrangement, as well as the effect of better service and
improved distribution of the current supply. The cost includes all investments necessary to normnalize
the system; that is, all works and procedures that would ensure adequate distribution of current
production including adequate application of the price (tariff) system.
23.   It also includes the costs of all that is related to the future operation of the system or the
rehabilitation of intake structures, treatment plants, transmission mains, and the sewerage network
including wastewater treatment plants. These investments will ensure the reliability of future supplies
to meet growing demand for water. Benefits are given by the value of additional demand satisfied (the
value of increase in quality and extemal effects, such as those on health, have not been valued to remain
in the safe side of the analysis).
Demand
24.   Consumption. As indicated, water consumption is low in areas where pressures are too low
or pipes have lost most of their capacity because of age or leaks or both8; and it is high in other areas.
There is no reliable data on consumption since billing is based on a flat rate which, only formally, is
related to a rate per m3 and an assigned monthly volume per household. However, estimates of water
production (51 to 94 Mm3 per year) and estimated physical losses (20 Mm3 per year) indicate that
actual consumption could be between 31 and 74 Mm3 which is between 151 and 459 lpd. Most
probably, consumption is between 50 and 55 Mm3 per year, or as much as 270 lpd. However, a main
characteristic of the current system is its poor distribution, with some areas consuming over 1,000 lpd
and others less that 70 lpd. Non-residential consumption is only 16% of total consumption, according
to billing figures.
25.   Characterization of the demand function. With available information, it is not possible to
estimate the demand function in a conventional manner. However, several aspects are known about
consumer behavior in the system which allows for an approximation of the demand curve, or at least of
its boundaries.
8      Due to inadequate chlorination, a considerable build-up of bacteria-produced iron compounds are
reducing pipe sections to as little as 15% of its original size.



Annex L
Page 8 of 14
Table 3. Characterization of the Water Demand Function
Q = 55.0 - 0.055 P
P          Q        Price elasticity    Change in   Income-constrained consumption
Price     Quantity      of demand      demand
(Bs/m3)    (Mm3/yr)                      (Mm3)
m3/month          lpd
0      55.000
10      54.450          0.0101        -0.55           320.00          2133
20      53.900           0.0204       -0.55           160.00          1067
30      53.350           0.0309       -0.55           106.67           711
40      52.800           0.0417       -0.55            80.00           533
50      52.250           0.0526       -0.55            64.00           427
60      51.700           0.0638       -0.55            53.33           356
70      51.150           0 0753       -0.55            45.71           305
80      50.600           0.0870       -0.55            40.00           267
90      50.050           0.0989       -0.55            35.56           237
100      49.500          0.1111        -0.55            32.00           213
150      46.750          0.1765        -2.75            21.33           142
200      44.000           0.2500       -2.75            16.00           107
300      38.500           0.4286       -5.50            10.67            71
400      33.000           0.6667        -5.50            8.00            53
500      27.500           1.0000       -5.50             6.40            43
600      22.000           1.5000       -5.50             5.33            36
700       16.500          2.3333        -5.50            4.57            30
800       11.000          4.0000       -5.50             4.00            27
900       5.500           9.0000       -5.50             3.56            24
1000       0.000          0.0000        -5.50             3.20            21
26.    For example, it is known that consumers pay as much as the equivalent of Bs 1000 per m3 for
water delivered by truck in 200 liter barrels. This is the rate charged by private operators. The
municipalities have their own trucks to provide this service, although they do not charge a fee. In the
recent dry season, a similar rate was paid in some areas of Maturin by consumers in shortage areas to
other residential and commercial consumers. This price applies both to small quantities in areas where



Annex L
Page 9 of 14
consumers are not connected to the network as well as to marginal quantities used to supplement
limited supplies from the network.
27.   Results of a contingent valuation survey indicate that consumers are willing to pay much higher
rates than they are now paying for a reliable water service. According to these results, 91% of
consumers favor a reliable system at a tariff of Bs 2,000 per month, and 78% favor the system at a
tariff of Bs 4,000. The first figure is equivalent to a price of Bs 50 per m3 for a consumption of 40 m3
per month. These figures are consistent with responses in situations in which service is inexpensive but
deficient, and they are certainly affordable. The new residential rate is Bs 1865 per month per
connection, or Bs 60 per m3, and Bs 800 per month per connection or Bs 20 per m3, on average, for
the social group.
28.   Currently, prices are low (marginal price is zero) and the corresponding quantity demanded is
either constrained by the state of the distribution network in some areas or as much as customers can
consume in others.
29.   Total demand may be as much as 55 million n3 at a zero marginal price. This is obtained from
42,000 connections, 12 persons per connection, and 300 liters/day. At these levels, demand is highly
inelastic and behaves differently from a conventional demand function. Only a significant increase in
prices would reveal regular demand responses. This could take place immediately when meters are
installed and a per m3 rate is applied. At present, for example, consumers do not have any incentives to
make the most simple repairs to reduce water leaks at home.
30.   From the above facts, the demand function should be approximately as shown in Table 3 and
Figure 1. Quantities demanded, shown in Table 3 are determined by the following equation: Q = 55.0 -
0.055 P, a simple straight line function where 55.0 Mm3 is the assumed maximum volume of domestic
consumption at current prices (zero marginal price) and supply restrictions for some consumers. The
slope (-0.055) is determined by the relation between maximum consumption and maximum
"willingness to pay" (Bs 1000 per mi3) as stated above. Results from the contingent valuation survey
consistently fit in this range.
31.   If it is assumed that consumers pay a maximum of 5% of their income on water service, then
Table 3 (income-constrained consumption) shows, at different prices, the amounts that a household
with a total income of two minimum salaries could get. It must be noted that only at prices above Bs
300 per m3, a household could only get below 100 lpd. However, as mentioned before, some
consumers already pay the equivalent of Bs 1,000 per m3 for small quantities.
Impact of the proposed project
32.   Current and expected situation without the project. Without the proposed project, it is
expected that the distribution network will continue to deteriorate, current shortages will become more
severe and losses will continue to increase due to lack of maintenance. In areas where there is sufficient
supply, there will be no rationalization of consumption as long as adequate pricing or rationing.are not
implemented. Total costs may remain constant but average costs will increase due to a reduction in
production.



Annex L
Page 10 of 14
33.   Expected situation with the project. With the project, a gradual improvement is expected.
The main benefits will be generated when it becomes possible, through improvement of the distribution
network and better operational and financial management, to reduce losses from waste and excessive
consumption in some areas and allocate them in shortage areas. Total variable costs may increase due
to improvements in production and commercial processes but average costs may decline due to
increases in production.
34.   In order to measure this impact, it is assumed that a gradual shift from areas with unlimited
consumption to shortage areas, will take place in the next 5 years as a result of the proposed project.
This shift will reallocate as much as 10% (5.5 Mm' per year)9 of maximum demand from areas with
excessive consumption.
35.   This measurement is illustrated in Figure I using the estimates of Table 3. Consumption will be
decreased through price or non-price means (rationing, better controls) from a "market" which
consumes excessive amounts at zero price. This volume will be shifted toward a "market" which
currently has permanent shortages due to low pressures or distribution problems (deteriorated pipes,
non-working valves, in-house leaks, etc.) and where water has a higher economic value. In this case,
there is a zero net transfer in terms of water volumes. 10
36.   In the market with excess consumption, the water is valued at between zero and Bs 60 per m3.
In the market with shortages, this water could be valued anywhere between Bs 100 and 1000 per m3,
depending on the location where service would be improved. Since for the system as a whole, water is
not scarce even during the dry season, new customers and households that purchase water to
supplement their insufficient piped supplies will benefit the most since they normally pay the barrel
price of Bs 1000 per m3. Other households, with restricted supplies, who normally would not purchase
additional water, would benefit the least depending on the level of their supplies. In any case all
households vvith restricted supplies are likely to benefit from an improved distribution network and
operation.
37.   Therefore, there is a substantial net gain from this reallocation. As seen from Figure 1, the loss
- in terms of consumer surplus - to the first group is offset by a gain in the same amount to the second
group, while there is a net value of 5.5 Mm3 at Bs 100 per m3 to the second group. This is a
conservative estimate since, the distribution of consumption is likely to eliminate shortages in the dry
months. Therefore the gain in consumer surplus will be much larger than the estimated here, since here
the shift in consumption is assumed to be at the next inframarginal level. That is in Figure 1 the shift
should be from consumption at the right hand of the demand function, to consumption near the left
hand side of the demand function where the consumer surplus is much larger.
9     This volume could provide the 120,000 people in Maturin affected by severe shortages an additional 20
m3 per household per month. Assuming 6 persons per household, this is equivalent to 4.8 million m3 per
year.
I 0   There could be a net gain if some of the transfer is from physical losses.



Annex L
Page 11 of 14
Monagas, Water Demand Function
09
08
0 7
0 6
0 5
0 4
0 3
0 2
0 1
0                   20                    40                   60
Ou..Nty (MV3y-e.r)
Figure 1. Water Demand Function
38.   The value of this net gain is US$ 3.24 nillion per year (5.5 Mmr3 x 100 Bs/m3). If it is further
assumed that in 1997 only 20% of this effect will take place, 40% in 1998, 60% in 1999, 80% in 2000,
and 100% thereafter, net gains per year are shown in Table 4. These gains are discounted at 12%"
over a 20 year period to yield a Present Value of about US$ 16.94 million.
39.    Another important effect that should take place as the system is repaired and its operation
improved is the recovery of physical losses, estimated now at 20 Mm3 per year or nearly one-third of
production. If in the next five years, these loses are reduced by 50%, that is, 10 Mnm3 are recovered by
the year 2001 - a feasible goal - such volume will be available to areas with current deficits and to new
consumers. The value of this additional supply, assuming a constant value of Bs 60 per m3 is US$ 3.53
million per year (a net present value of US$ 205 million in 20 years; see Table 4). This level is reached
gradually by the year 2001 and increases thereafter with population growth (assumed at 2.5% per
year).
There are no estimates of the marginal cost of capital to use as the discount rate; 12% is used as point of
reference.



Annex L
Page 12 of 14
Table 4. Economic Benefits and Costs of Rehabilitation Investments
Considering a Value for Water Equal to the Present Tariff (60 Bs/m3)
(US$ Millions)
Benefits                          Net Benefit
Year             Redistrib. Losses Sav    Total Con. Surp  Investm Tariff value  Con. Surp
1996                    -          -        -         -   -2.750       (2.75)     (2.75)
1997                 0.39       0.71     1.09      1.82   -9.799       (8.70)     (7.98)
1998                 0.78       1.41     2.19      3.65    -8.886      (6.70)     (5.24)
1999                  1.16      2.12     3.28      5.47    -7.008      (3.73)     (1.54)
200()                 1.55      2.82     4.38      7.29    -8.057      (3.68)     (0.76)
2001                  1.94      3.53     5.47      9.12                 5.47        9.12
2002                  1.94      3.62     5.56      9.26                 5.56        9.26
2003                  1.94      3.71     5.65      9.42                 5.65        9.42
2004                  1.94      3.80     5.74      9.57                 5.74        9.57
2005                  1.94      3.90     5.84      9.73                 5.84        9.73
2006                  1.94      3.99     5.93      9.89                 5.93        9.89
2007                  1.94      4.09     6.03      10.06                6.03       10.06
2008                  1.94      4.20     6.14      10.23                6.14       10.23
2009                  1.94      4.30     6.24     10.40                 6.24       10.40
2010                  1.94      4.41     6.35     10.58                 6.35       10.58
2011                  1.94      4.52     6.46     10.77                 6.46       10.77
2012                  1.94      4.63     6.57     10.95                 6.57       10.95
2013                  1.94      4.75     6.69     11.15                 6.69       11.15
2014                  1.94      4.87     6.81      11.34                6.81       11.34
2015                  1.94      4.99     6.93     11.55                 6.93       11.55
2016                  1.94      5.11     7.05     11.75                 7.05       11.75
Present values           10.17      20.49    30.66     51.09     25.62       5.04      25.48
Internal Rate of Return                                                   15.17%     27.15%
40.    Project costs. The total cost of the project is estimated at US$ 71 million. If taxes, price
escalation and interest charges are subtracted the project's economic cost is US$ 54.35 million, with a
net present value of US$ 38.05 million, while the cost of the rehabilitation investments over the project
execution period is US$ 36.5 rillion (65% of total costs, with a net present value of US$ 25.62
million), distributed as shown in Table 4. No shadow valuation or other adjustments of financial costs
were deemed necessary.
41.    Evaluating benefits at present tariff level (residential rate Bs 60/m3), the economic rate of return
of the project's rehabilitation investments (as said above, about 65% of project costs) is 15.2%. If
consumer surpluses, based on a marginal social value of Bs 100/mi3, are also taken into account in the
calculation, the rate of return rises to 27%. The main contributor to project benefits is the reduction in
physical losses. A significant number of consumers are willing to pay as much as Bs 1000 per m3, and
the results of the contingent valuation study show that 91% of consumers are willing to pay Bs 50 per
m3 for an adequate supply while 78% would pay Bs 100 for the same volume.



Annex L
Page 13 of 14
Sensitivity analysis
42.    The most critical parameters in the calculation of the project's net benefits are the marginal
value of water, the volume of water which can be recovered and the amount that can be redistributed.
The above estimates may be considered a conservative scenario, since the value of water (Bs 60 per
mi) is the current price; the 5.5 Mm' per year redistributed is only 10% of most probable consumption,
and the 10 Mm3 of physical losses recovered to be reached in 5 years is only 10% of production and
50% of estimated physical losses. This goals should be easily achieved if the project is properly
executed.
43.    If the price of water is increased to Bs 150 per M3, the IRR of the project increases to 42%
However, if losses are reduced by only 5 Mm3 per year, the IRR for the project falls to 8.5% and is nil
if no physical losses are recovered. Other things equal, water recovery should be no less than 7.5 Mm3
per year in order for the IRR of the rehabilitation investments not to fall below 12%. Similarly, if
investment costs increase by 50%, the IRR would fall to 8.5% (as most of project's investment costs
are going to be local and tariffs will be adjusted in relation to the cost of the service, the sensitivity of
the analysis to exchange rate changes is low).
E. Additional Rationale for Project Justification
44     The proposed project has important impacts beyond its direct economic benefits. it provides
the opportunity to demonstrate the gains, generated at various levels, of a decentralized water supply
sector and contributes to the performance of other sectors in the state of Monagas, as the health sector.
This project will be the first experience in Venezuela in the process of decentralizing the structure
controlled by the central govemment and managed by the regional agencies at considerable costs to the
central government and large economic losses in the supply of services to the population. The success
of the project will induce replications across the country, thus reducing government losses and
increasing quality and quantity of water supplies. At the macroeconomic level, there will be clear gains
in the reduction of public expenditures to cover the HIDROs deficits without reducing the level of
service. There will be, in fact, a shift from deficit financing to revenue generation as water tariffs are
rationalized, and the service itself is improved. At the sector level, the proposed project will have an
important impact not only on promoting a rational structure to administer water supply systems
throughout the country, but it will also contribute to the performance of other sectors such as public
health. As shown below, the deficient water and sewerage service is being regarded as a "public health
problem" in the Monagas region. These further benefits are not being accounted here, when assessing
the rate of retum. Thus the evaluated rate of return here assessed is a lower bound of the real rate of
return, since those benefits are also derived from this project.
45     Macroeconomic effects.  The central govemment subsidizes the water sector directly
through HIDROVEN's budget and indirectly through arrears with electricity and other suppliers. It is
estimated that only 40% of the water sector's operating costs are recovered through tariffs This figure
is only 25% for the State of Monagas. This transfer is estimated at between US$ 100 and 150 million



Annex L
Page 14 of 14
annually, in constant terms, which is part of the public sector's operating deficit.12 Although, this is
relatively small compared to the public sector's operating deficit of nearly US$ 4.0 billion in 1994, it is
an impoitant contributor to any deficit reduction strategy because it does not require a reduction in
services, in fact, it is expected that service will improve under a decentralized, self-financed system.
46.    The central govemment could also make substantial savings in investment costs. According to
fIlDROVEN's investment budget for 1995, Bs 23,497 millions (US$ 138 million) will be spent in
water and sanitation infrastructure. However, from the State of Monagas projections, the system could
repay its investments from its own tariff income.
47.    Health sector impact. An improvement in the performance of the water and sewerage sector
will have a significant impact on the health sector. According to the Regional Directorate of Health for
the state of Monagas, water is considered a "health problem" in the state. Increases in the incidence of
water-borne diseases have been reported by all health districts due to poor water quality which is
associated with deficient treatment which, in turn, is associated with lack of an adequate budget for
operations.
48.    The analysis of the value of water did not include the health impact of potable water. This
conservative approach was used since in this case there are public health benefits which are not
captured by this parameter because, among other reasons, most health services are free in the state of
Monagas. That is, consumers do not consider, in the price of water, any benefits from savings in health
costs which they do not pay. However, local health authorities assumed that 15% of the population
are affected annually by water-caused health problems, and that about one-half of these cases (42,000)
can be prevented by improved water and sanitation services and, further, that each case costs the health
system Bs 10,0003 . Based on these assumptions, it can be estimated that the annual savings which
could be achieved through this project would be around Bs 420 million, or approximately US$ 2.4
million. In addition, losses in productivity as a result of absences from work due to illness amount to
56,000 work days per year, at a cost of about Bs 100.8 million per year (US$ 0.576 million per year)14
Thus, the total impact resulting of improved availability of water and quality of service was estimated at
Bs 520.8 million (US$ 3.0 million) annually, which would be reached gradually as the project is
implemented.
12     It is estimated that in 1994, water and sewerage subsidies reached Bs 15,024 million which, at the average
cxchange rate for 1994 (150 Bs/US$), is equivalent to US$ 100 million. This is relatively low since it was
calculated using Bs 1,252 as operating cost per person (the average for the State of Monagas) and it does
not include areas with electricity suppliers.
13     This estimate is based on the average cost of one visit to the doctor and of prescription medicine. For most
people, in the State of Monagas, this is provided free by the public health system. This cost is, therefore,
the cost to the public sector.
This is estimated assuming an average monthly salary (productivity) of Bs 45,000, or Bs 1,800 per day,
and one-third of the affected population in the labor force and 2 days lost per occurrence on average.



Annex M
Page 1 of 2
VENEZUELA
WATER AND SEWERAGE DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
Selected Documents in the Project File
Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1. Proyecto para el Desarrollo Institucional y la Rehabilitaci6n de los Sistemas del
Sector Agua Potable y Saneamiento del Estado de Monagas, Venezuela - Evaluaci6n de
las Condiciones Existentes de los Sistemas. Tudor Engineering Co. and OBHIDRA
Consult. C.A., January 1992.
2. Informe Final - Diagnostico para la Prestacion de los Servicios de A bastecimiento de
Agua Potable y Saneamiento para las areas Rurales en el estado Monagas. Consultores
Tecnicos Integrales, October 1995.
3. Informe Final - Aguas de Monagas, Estudio de la Estructura Organizacional y de
Optimizaci6n de Personal. Ecology and Environment, S.A., November 1995.
4. Report on Willingness to Pay for Improved Water Supply and Sanitation in Maturin,
Venezuela. Donald Lauria, Jennifer Davis and Elizabeth Mclelland, CVM, Inc., November
1995.
5. Report on Willingness to Pay for Improved Water and Sanitation in Rural Areas of
the State of Monagas, Venezuela. Donald Lauria, Alfredo Cueva, CVM, Inc., March
1996.
6. Technical Annex on Rural and Peri-urban Water and Sanitation. Gabrielle Watson,
VHB, Inc., May 1995.
7. Economic Evaluation - Monagas Water and Sewerage Systems Rehabilitation. Marco
Fierro, Optima Technical Services, August 1995.
8. Informe - Situaci6n Financiera de Aguas de Monagas, Venezuela. Mauricio Mossi,
August 1995.
9. Informes Preliminares - Analisis Legal de la Transferencia del Servicio a las
Autoridades Locales. Bentata Hoet & Asociados, August and October 1995.
10. Informe Preliminar - Transferencia de Recursos de Prestamo. Jose Armando Mejia,
Mejia, Araujo & Asociados, Escritorio Juridico, Octobre 1995.



Annex M
Page 2 of 2
11  It o-rme Final - I)iagyn6stico InstiluLiont/l ciel Atianejo ic ReLcurso.s Hidrico.% et/ Ci
1siawdo tie AMonagas. Eptisa, November 1995.
Documents To be Used for Project lmplementation
I Contract Plan.
2. Management Contract, Terms of Reference and Bidding Documents for the hiring of a
private operator, August-December 1995.
3. Operational Manual for the Rural Rehabilitation and Participatory Management
Program.
4. Terms of Reference for the Services of a Non-governmental Organization in the
execution of the Technical Assistance in the Rural Rehabilitation and Participatory
Management Program.
Reports and Policy Statements of Venezuelan Sector-related Agencies
1. Trograma de Ajlusie del Sector Aguia Iotable Y .Saneamniewto.  C.A. Hidrol6gica
Venezolana, September 1994.
2. (In  /ocdelo de I'articipacion (Comunilaria en ia 1'rexmaciin de lo.s Ser'IcLios l'ihlicos
de Accueducios v (Cloacas. HIDROVEN, Gerencia de Comercializaci6n, November 1994.



55'                                         ST VINCENT   °°
4',AAIN.AI      LC.bbT?j               Sec                                     an~~~~~~~~~~d h.
>'9LsIN  L C  ' . b J, Le-  S e                              GRENADINES
VENEZUELA                                                                                 WI D.                                b e-                   El n9.IIo                                GRENADA
WATER AND SEWERAGE                                                                --" P,       . -l. '-  AIe. ehd.
DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT IN                                                                            'a''              1-.
THE  STATE  OF  MONAGAS    .                              A         E ;                I   ,  eti  F A                                       FE DER           AZAL            l   4,p AE5PARTA             TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
REGIONAL HYDROLOGICAL                                                                     i -FAH9N0                                                                 c ---c -*ICR
CORPORATIONS                                             /                               ' AA-- S RRA                                  C                                   E 9,.   I:
ZI        I-
FOCV ES                                                                                                            d/LOILLGVI   d   b   N X  M
*    ATE F Rs FEDOFFAL TEPPITGRY CAPTIA,5  tS                                                                        ElSae.,b.wA S   "                                                           D t1.
-   NAT CNAL C:AL 5UA,  IES                                  Ua.."¼  '                                                                                 C                     MO  AGA P.
~"~    i  dS2M-  ?   >    p       > ( ,             Fdo n~_El C 6A           ,                          Vcb
GUAR [co A P U Rt
STATE BOUNDARIES                                                       Mee<         ce S  ,.n            ,                                                                                    ~       '' 
d GERIDA                             As,~N At,                                                                                  
NFERNATIGNAL BODUNDARIES                                                               NA                 eewCS  .eeo>vee$e~e                          Mp-                                          "'
~~~~~~~~~~~S- 'cb<-,d  9
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -E UEICC,
-Teaideelea      ~~A P U R E                          'eFee                                            -I'J
HYDPOLOGICAL CORPORATIONS IHIDROSI                                                         .                             p           JV-
H ID R O C A P I T A t                                                                                                                                        B    O C  I  V                           I
L ITO FEDERAI MIRANDA                                                                            _ ,....          
nDROCENTROiE                                                                                                                        )                                                          - =R
APAG-A CARA50SO CLJEDES                                                                                                            ;fI                                                                          GUYANA
U      HIDROOCCIDENTAL                                                                                                             AyoA,b,                                                                     \
LAA RARACUY PORTAGIUESA                                                                                             (9                             ;,
[ HIDROFALCON(c- .  m=
EDRFALCGN                                                        C OLO MBIA                                          O\C\ L    O M    B  I Ae1\
HDROLAGO                                              5
_H DROUROESTE
_              MTC.5RA .-NIC TAMORA Dfl EDO BARINAS                                                                                                                                              ICebr  f
H DROANDE5%Frnnc       1   m F9\_<                                                                                                                                                               <;
E MERIDA 1fUJILLO EACINAS                                                                                             :    a                                            .r C     \     B
IC- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ F
F--   'IDIROPAEZ                                                                                                                  \         s AMAZONAS                                             
H DRQCARIBF                                                                                                                                                                                                         to E  ,j
L,  0CAEU MONAGAS SUCRE NC sPA/RIA                                                                                 /                   -                      I                                            -       M <
<    11 r LL ANOS-7P                                                                                                                                                                 | 
FT  IE                                                                                                   L~~~~~~~~~~~~~<  T~Z'                                                                          ,
El     . AMA ACRAS 'EUrA AMACAP f                             ICCC-^EITEw                                          ->     g                             BA eC.e Coo-   of.                                   _./1;PA
lb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                              e udoe .o A.                                                A, r 
A'                                                       5C d. R.. -,. (                                                       I E /5    L
_Iu L Sc^ds e   '   r  ~  ~    ~ B R  A  Z I L                                                                A






IBRD 27253
S  U  C  R  E 
N  >~A~npe               Caripito'< 
S~~~    t          ~n     Caripe                  _ ,
'Mun o                 ,1
Nuevo                                            Quirequire
Nuevoat                           Arogua de
~~~ 0           ~~~~Matur n            % 
N               Ca ca a de Matu                                   f Guarapiche
\     \         X~~~~~~Caicara de Maturin-T\
AMANA-
.  MATURiN                                                                Maturin
\  SYSTEM                                    Jusepin
/              El Tejero      Santa
6 /  Barbara                                                     *.                DELTA
AMACURO
.                  /                                          '                                      N
> t*Ag~~~uasay(
ANZOATEGUI                    -.                                               0%%oTemblador
VENEZUELA
WATER AND SEWERAGE                                                                                 Barr-ai nc
DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT ' 
IN THE STATE OF MONAGAS
MONAGAS WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM                                                         .
TO BE REHABILITATED                                                        -
The boonoor.os ro,o,s denon,noroons                                                                               .
ondoo)rhe  ^,one,.o   Thso,.,, o            5n   r~---
mopdo no          P ."ply on he pore of
The Wonid f-ni Gro-p  ony ,,dg-fen,               ,                        -'-
o, lh, )ego.  ) '-- -f ony r                                                                0    10   20   30   40   50 KILOMETERS
any endorsenien r: on ccp ooe oh          -  -_,    ,  
x               ~~BOLiVAR
DOMINhCA
M.,rOiq. IFRI   C
N  SE A         ~~~~~~ST LUCIA
f  NP J   S FA   ST VINCENT' 
on_d t. :  ARMDOS
An,br Ceeofoo  GRENADINES
(N.A  INhl.-  N       GTRINADA   d                        TREATMENT PLANTS                  RIVERS
J a ~~~~~~~ThINIDAD an4
( J     cracoe     I Areo   TOSAGO .                        CATCHMENT POINTS
STATE BOUNDARIES
PANAMA.  A          Io/, nnn I                        Q      STORAGE TANKS
PANAt4A         1j
\   V E N E Z U E L A  , sc 1  /             *     fMAJOR TOWNS SUPPLIED              INTERNATIONAL
_' SRTnAME                                                     BOUNDARIES (INSET)
L *     SURNAME                   EXISTING SYSTEM
C O         L O          7 B I A
B R A Z I L
MAY 1 996









IMAGING
Report No:       15072 VE
Type: SAR



