Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4031-VE
Hidroven Project Agreement
(Water and Sewerage Decentralization Project - State of Monagas)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
Hidroven C.A.
Dated October 2, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4031-VE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 2, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and HIDROVEN C.A (Hidroven).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic of 
Venezuela (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower a loan in the amount of thirty nine million dollars ($39,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that 
Hidroven agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
Hidroven, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement 
will be made available to Hidroven on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS Hidroven, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
Page  2
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01.  Hidroven declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with each 
Annual Investment Program and appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for Part B of the Project.
Section 2.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for Part B of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Hidroven shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Hidroven Project 
Agreement and Part B of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, and without 
limitation thereto, Hidroven shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Bank and Hidroven, a plan for the future operation of Part B 
of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Hidroven on said plan.
Section 2.04.  Hidroven shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Hidroven shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning, failing to enforce or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) Hidroven shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement and other matters relating 
to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Hidroven shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Hidroven of its obligations under this 
Agreement and the Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 2.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement, Hidroven shall furnish to the Bank: 
(a)
not later than January 31, April 30, July 31, and October 31 of each year 
of Project execution, quarterly progress reports on Part B of the Project, of such 
scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including, inter alia: (i) 
information on the progress achieved during the then previous quarter in the 
implementation of Part B of the Project based on monitoring indicators satisfactory to 
the Bank; (ii) an assessment of the problems and issues derived from the 
implementation of Part B of the Project; (iii) updated implementation and 
disbursements schedules for the following two quarters; and (iv) status of compliance 
by Hidroven with its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Agreement, 
and, if the case may be, a plan of action detailing the adjustments and remedial 
action to be taken for their compliance with such obligations; and
(b)
for its review and approval, not later than September 30 of each year of 
Project execution, a proposed annual investment program providing for the activities, 
implementation schedule and proposed budget in respect of Part B of the Project during 
the upcoming year.
Page  3
Section 2.07.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement, Hidroven shall:
(a)
not later than September 30 of each year, starting in 1996, hold jointly, 
with AdM, annual reviews with the Bank, such reviews to be based on the reports 
referred to in Section 2.06 (a) of this Agreement and 2.05 (a) of the AdM Project 
Agreement and to focus, inter alia, on: (i) the progress in the execution, and in the 
achievement of the objectives of the Project based on monitoring indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) the proposed annual investment program for Part B of 
the Project in the upcoming year; (iii) performance by Hidroven of its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement; and (iv) other items referred to in Section 2.06 (a) 
of the AdM Project Agreement;
(b)
in respect of the annual review to be held in 1998 (mid-term review), 
focus on the following items in addition to those mentioned in paragraph (a) above: 
(i) participation of the local communities in the implementation of the Project; (ii) 
impact and results of the Project as measured on the basis of user's satisfaction; and 
(iii) effectiveness in the implementation arrangements and flow of funds under the 
Project;
(c)
if, as a result of any of the above reviews, the Bank shall have 
reasonably determined that the progress in the execution of the Project or in the 
attainment of the objectives of the Project is not satisfactory, promptly take or 
cause to be taken, without limitation or restriction to any of the Bank's rights under 
this Agreement, all such action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary for 
the efficient execution of Part B of the Project or for the  attainment of its 
objectives.
Section 2.08.  HIDROVEN shall, for the purposes of an efficient and adequate 
execution and coordination of the Project, maintain the PU with an organizational 
structure, functions and staffing satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.09.  Hidroven shall: (a) not later than July 31, 1997, prepare and 
submit, jointly with the Borrower, a detailed action plan to establish, under a 
timetable and design satisfactory to the Bank, a Users Hydrographic Confederation for 
the management of water resources in the Amana and Guarapiche river basins in the 
State of Monagas; and (b) implement the above action plan in accordance with its 
terms.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Hidroven
Section 3.01.  Hidroven shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, public utility, engineering and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02.  Hidroven shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, public utility, financial and environmental practices.
Section 3.03.  Hidroven shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, 
or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) Hidroven shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition, including records and separate accounts reflecting the resources and 
expenditures in respect of Part B of the Project.
(b)
Hidroven shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and its financial statements (balance sheets, statements 
of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal 
Page  4
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, or for all expenditures 
with respect to which withdrawals were made from the Special Account, Hidroven shall 
provide to the Borrower all information, records and accounts necessary to allow the 
Borrower to perform its obligations punctually under Article IV of the Loan Account.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01.  This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02.  This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Hidroven 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Hidroven thereof.
Section 5.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01.  Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) and
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
For Hidroven:
Hidroven C.A.
9a. Transversal Mariparez
Edificio Hidroven
Caracas, Venezuela
Section 6.02.  Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Hidroven may 
Page  5
be taken or executed by its President or such other person or persons as its President 
shall designate in writing, and Hidroven shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence 
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
Section 6.03.  This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
HIDROVEN
By /s/ Luis Ral Matos Azcar
Authorized Representative
