Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4031-VE
AdM Project Agreement
(Water and Sewerage Decentralization Project-State of Monagas)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
AGUAS DE MONAGAS C.A.
Dated October 2, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4031-VE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 2, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and AGUAS DE MONAGAS, C.A. (AdM).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic of 
Venezuela (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower a loan in the amount of thirty nine million dollars ($39,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that AdM 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
(B)
by an agreement (Subsidiary Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower, Hidroven and AdM a portion of the proceeds of the Loan provided for under 
the Loan Agreement will be made available to AdM for purposes of the implementation of 
Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS AdM, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
Page  2
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) AdM declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with each 
Annual Investment Program and appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
technical and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part A of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
AdM shall duly perform all of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement, the 
Contract-Plan, the Trust Fund Operating Agreement, the Technical Assistance Contract 
and the Management Contract. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, AdM shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning, failing to enforce or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement, the Contract-Plan, 
the Technical Assistance Contract, the Trust Fund Operating Agreement or the 
Management Contract or any provision thereof.
(c)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
AdM shall carry out Part A.3 of the Project in accordance with the Rural Operational 
Manual.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for Part A of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) AdM shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the AdM Project 
Agreement and Part A of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, and without 
limitation thereto, AdM shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of Part 
A of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) AdM shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to the progress of Part A of the project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement, the Contract-Plan, the 
Trust Fund Operating Agreement, the Technical Assistance Contract, the Management 
Contract and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
(b)
AdM shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by AdM of its obligations under this 
Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement, the Contract-Plan, the Trust Fund Operating 
Agreement, the Technical Assistance Contract and the Management Contract.
Section 2.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement, AdM shall furnish to the Bank:
(a)
not later than January 31, April 30, July 31, and October 31 of each year 
of Project execution, quarterly progress reports on Part A of the Project, of such 
scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including, inter alia: (i) 
information on the progress achieved during the then previous quarter in the 
implementation of Part A of the Project based, inter alia, on monitoring indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) an assessment of the problems and issues derived from 
the implementation of Part A of the Project; (iii) updated implementation and 
disbursement schedules for the following two quarters; and (iv) status of compliance 
by AdM with its obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement, the 
Page  3
Contract-Plan, the Trust Fund Operating Agreement, the Technical Assistance Contract 
and the Management Contract and, if the case
may be, a plan of actions detailing the adjustments and remedial action to be taken 
for its compliance with such obligations;
(b)
for its review and approval, not later than September 30 of each year of 
Project execution, a proposed annual investment program providing for the activities, 
implementation schedule and proposed budget in respect of Part A of the Project during 
the upcoming year;
and
(c)
not later than March 31 of each year, evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, 
showing that the State of Monagas, the respective municipalities in the State of 
Monagas and AdM have provided their respective financing shares of the Annual 
Investment Program for the then current year.
Section 2.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement, AdM shall:
(a)
not later than September 30 of each year, starting in 1996, hold, jointly 
with Hidroven, annualreviews with the Bank, such reviews to be based on the reports 
referred to in Section 2.05 (a) of this Agreement and to focus, inter alia, on: (i) 
the progress in the execution, and in the achievement of the objectives of Part A of 
the Project based on monitoring indicators satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) the proposed 
annual investment program for Part A of the Project in
the upcoming year; (iii) performance by AdM of its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement, the Contract-Plan, Trust Fund Operating Agreement, the Technical Assistance 
Contract and the Management 
Contract; and (iv) any changes in the Project design and implementation that may be 
necessary;
(b)
in respect of the annual review to be held two years after Project 
effectiveness (mid-term review), focus on the following items in addition to those 
mentioned in paragraph (a) above: (i) participation of the local communities in the 
implementation of the Project; (ii) impact and results of the Project as measured on 
the basis of user's satisfaction; and (iii) effectiveness in the implementation 
arrangements and flow of funds under the Project; and
(c)
if, as a result of any of the above reviews, the Bank shall have 
reasonably determined that the progress in the execution of the Project or in the 
attainment of the objectives of the Project is not satisfactory, promptly take or 
cause to be taken, without limitation or restriction to any of the Bank's rights under 
this Agreement, all such action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary for 
the efficient execution of Part A of the Project or for the attainment of its 
objectives.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of AdM
Section 3.01. AdM shall: (a) carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound engineering, public utility, administrative, financial and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and (b) without limitation to any 
provision in this Agreement, substantially achieve, to the satisfaction of the Bank, 
the targets set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement for the physical, financial 
and Project investments' performance indicators specified in such Schedule.
Section 3.02. AdM shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
public utility, financial and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. AdM shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) AdM shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
Page  4
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition, 
including records and separate accounts reflecting the resources and expenditures in 
respect of Part A of the Project.
(b)
AdM shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and its financial statements (balance sheets, statements 
of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, or for all expenditures 
with respect to which withdrawals were made from the Special Account, AdM shall 
provide to the Borrower all information, records and accounts necessary to allow the 
Borrower to perform its obligations punctually under Article IV of the Loan Account.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, AdM shall produce, 
for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1996, funds 
from internal sources equivalent to not less than 12% for fiscal year 1997, 17% for 
fiscal year 1998, and 33% for fiscal year 1999 and thereafter, of the annual average 
of AdM's capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that year, the 
previous fiscal year and the next following fiscal year.
(b)
Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, AdM shall, on the basis 
of forecasts prepared by AdM and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next 
following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such review upon its 
completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that AdM would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for AdM's fiscal years covered by such review, AdM shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, inter alia, adjustments of the 
structure or levels of its rates) in order to
meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 
consumer deposits and consumer contributions in aid of 
construction, net non-operating income and any reduction in 
working capital other than cash; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes (excluding provision for depreciation and 
other non-cash operating charges), debt service 
requirements, all cash dividends and other cash 
distributions of surplus, increase in working capital other 
than cash and other cash outflows other than capital 
expenditures.
(ii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
Page  5
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(iii)
The term "working capital other than cash" means the difference 
between current assets excluding cash and current liabilities at 
the end of each fiscal year.
(iv)
The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other 
than cash which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within twelve months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable securities, inventories and pre-paid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within the next 
fiscal year.
(v)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and payable or could under circumstances then existing 
be called for payment within twelve months, including accounts 
payable, customer advances, debt service requirements, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(vi)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(vii)
The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures incurred on 
account of fixed assets, including interest charged to 
construction, related to operations.
(viii)Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, AdM shall maintain, 
for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 1995, a ratio of 
total operating expenses to totaloperating revenues not higher than 111% for fiscal 
year 1996, 85% for fiscal year 1997, 84% for fiscal year 1998, 80% for fiscal year 
1999 and 78% for fiscal year 2000 and thereafter.
(b)
Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, AdM shall, on the basis 
of forecasts prepared by AdM and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next 
following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon 
its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that AdM would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for AdM's fiscal years covered by such review, AdM shall 
promptly take all necessary
measures (including, inter alia, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) 
in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to operation.
(ii)
The term "total operating expenses", means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on a 
straight-line basis at a rate of not less than 4% per annum of the 
average current gross value of AdM's fixed assets in operation, or 
other basis acceptable to the Bank, but excluding interest and 
other charges on debt.
(iii)
The average current gross value of AdM's fixed assets in operation 
shall be calculated as one half of the sum of the gross value of 
AdM's fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at the end of 
the fiscal year, as valued from time to time in accordance with 
Page  6
sound and consistently maintained methods of valuation 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, AdM shall not incur 
any debt, unless the net revenues of AdM for the fiscal year immediately preceding the 
date of such  incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the date of 
such incurrence,
whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.5 times for fiscal year 1996, and 2 
times for fiscal year 1997 and thereafter, the estimated maximum debt service 
requirements of AdM for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of AdM, including the 
debt to be incurred. 
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of AdM maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
adjusted to take account of AdM's rates in effect at the 
time of the incurrence of debt even though they were not in 
effect during the twelve-month period to which such revenues 
relate and net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges and interest and other 
charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable 
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of AdM 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify AdM thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
Page  7
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) and
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
For Aguas de Monagas:
Ave. Ral Leoni
Edificio La Palma
Mezzanina
Telex:
58-91-422846
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of AdM may be 
taken or executed by its  President or such other person or persons as its President 
shall designate in writing, and AdM shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
AGUAS DE MONAGAS, C.A.
By /s/ Israel Wever
Authorized Representative
Page  8
SCHEDULE
Performance Indicators and Targets
(PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR PERFORMANCE INDICATORS TABLE
FORMAT WILL NOT FIT INTO AGREEMENT)
For the purpose of this Schedule, the performance indicators are defined as 
follows:
Physical Indicators
New Meters Installed in a given year is the amount of meters installed and in 
adequate operation.
Number of days of rationing per year is the number of days in a given year where 
water supply is rationed by AdM due to the inability to meet total demand.
Billing Period is the average number of days between the actual reading of the 
meters and the issuance of bills.
Collection Period is the average number of days between the issuance of bills 
and the collection of payment.
Financial Indicators
The Accounts Receivable is calculated by dividing the total uncollected bills at 
the end of the given year by the total billing for such given year and multiplying the 
result by twelve.
The Users billed is calculated in percentage terms as the total number of users 
billed in a given year in relation to the total number of users.
The Collections efficiency is calculated in percentage terms as the total amount 
of bills collected in relation to total amount of bills issued in a given year.
Unaccounted for water for a given year is calculated in percentage terms as the 
volume of water produced less the volume of water billed (metered plus non-metered 
estimated at 15m3 per month for residential consumers and 10m3 per household for 
social consumers as such consumers are defined in the Borrower's Resolucin No. 182 and 
134, dated April 15, 1993 and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette, dated 
April 14, 1993) in such given year over the volume of water produced and metered in 
such given year.
Quick Ratio for a given year is the ratio of current assets to current 
liabilities. For purposes of this ratio: (i) "current assets" means cash, all assets 
which could in the ordinary course of business be converted into cash within twelve 
months, including accounts receivables, marketable securities and prepaid expenses 
properly chargeable to operating expenses within the next fiscal year; (ii) "current 
liabilities" and "debt service" requirements have the same meanings as in Section 4.02 
(d) (v) and (vi) respectively and the provision in Section 4.02 (d) (viii) shall 
apply.
