Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4031-VE
Loan Agreement
(Water and Sewerage Decentralization Project-State of Monagas)
between
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 2, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4031-VE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 2, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower declares that, through HIDROCARIBE C.A. (hereinafter 
Hidrocaribe) and HIDROVEN C.A. (hereinafter Hidroven), it has entered into a Convenio 
para la Transferencia o Restitucin de los Servicios de Agua Potable y Saneamiento del 
Estado Monagas, dated February 27, 1996, with the Mancomunidad (as hereinafter 
defined) for purposes of transferring from the national level to the municipal level 
the provision of water supply and sewerage services in the State of Monagas (as 
hereinafter defined) and such agreement is legally valid and binding in accordance 
with its respective terms;
(C)
the Borrower declares that all municipalities in the State of Monagas (as 
hereinafter defined), excepting the municipality of Cedeo, have authorized AGUAS DE 
MONAGAS C.A. (hereinafter AdM), through the execution of the respective Contratos de 
Autorizacin (as hereinafter defined) and Acuerdos de Ratificacin (as hereinafter 
defined), to provide water supply and sewerage services in each of their jurisdictions 
and to utilize their respective assets of municipal domain assigned to such services 
and each of such Contratos de Autorizacin and Acuerdos de Ratificacin is legally valid 
and binding in accordance with its respective terms;
Page  2
(D)
the Borrower declares that, through its Ministry of the Environment and 
Natural Resources, it has entered into a Contrato de Comodato, dated March 11, 1996,  
with AdM to authorize the latter to use, operate, maintain and administer the systems 
of production of potable water in the State of Monagas (as hereinafter defined) and 
such agreement is legally valid and binding in accordance with its terms;
(E)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Inter American Development Bank 
(IDB) a loan (the IDB Loan) in an amount equivalent to $ 5,450,000 to assist in 
financing Part B of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the IDB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and IDB;
(F)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by AdM with the Borrower's 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to AdM a 
portion of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
(G)
Part B of the Project will be carried out by Hidroven with the 
Borrowers's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to Hidroven a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement, the Project Agreement of
even date herewith between the Bank and Aguas de Monagas and the Project Agreement of 
even date herewith between the Bank and Hidroven;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Single Currency Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Acuerdos de Ratificacin" means the resolutions, acuerdos de C mara 
issued by the municipal councils, Consejos Municipales, of the municipalities of 
Maturn, Piar, Bolvar, Caripe, Libertador, Acosta, Zamora, Uracoa, Santa Barbara, 
Aguasay, Punceres and Sotillo, dated March 21, 1996, March 23, 1996, March 22, 1996, 
March 22, 1996, March 22, 1996, March 22, 1996, March 21, 1996, March 22, 1996, March 
22, 1996, March 22, 1996, March 21, 1996 and March 25, 1996, respectively;
(b)
"AdM Charter" means the Estatutos of AdM, dated October 27, 1993, and 
registered on October 27, 1993 in the Juzgado Primero de Primera Instancia en lo 
Civil, Mercantil, del Tr nsito, Estabilidad Laboral de la Circunscripcin Judicial del 
Estado Monagas, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(c)
"AdM Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and AdM of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the AdM Project Agreement;
(d)
"Annual Investment Program" means each of the annual investment programs 
submitted by AdM and Hidroven, pursuant to Section 2.05 (b) of the AdM Project 
Agreement and Section 2.06 (b) of the Hidroven Project Agreement, and approved by the 
Bank;
(e)
"Authorizing Municipalities" means the municipalities which have 
authorized AdM to provide water supply and sewerage services in their respective 
jurisdictions as described in WHEREAS clause (C) of this Agreement and, if the case, 
any successors to, or new municipalities within the jurisdiction of, the above 
municipalities;
(f)
"Bs" means the Borrower's currency unit, the Bolvar;
 
(g)
"Contract-Plan" means the agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, to be 
entered into, pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, among the State of 
Page  3
Monagas, the Authorizing Municipalities and AdM for purposes, inter alia, of: (i) 
defining the responsibilities of each party in the provision of water supply and 
sewerage services in the State of Monagas; (ii) providing for the financial 
contribution of each party in regard to the Project; and (iii) setting forth the 
performance indicators and related targets to be met by AdM including those set forth 
in the Schedule to the AdM Project Agreement; as such agreement may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Contract Plan;
(h)
"Contratos de Autorizacin" means the agreements entered into between AdM 
and the following municipalities: Bolvar on February 16, 1996; Libertador on February 
16, 1996; Maturn on
August 23, 1995; Ezequiel Zamora on September 20, 1995; Sotillo on April 11, 1995; 
Caripe on August 17, 1995; Piar on April 5, 1995; Punceres on August 16, 1995; and 
Acosta on July 6, 1995;
(i)
"Eligible Rural Subproject" means an investment project for the 
improvement and/or expansion of a rural water system in the State of Monagas to 
provide a basic level of service and which investment project meets the eligibility 
criteria set forth in the Rural Operational Manual;
(j)
"Eligible Water System" means an integrated water system, selected 
between the Bank and Hidroven, in respect of which the following conditions have been 
met to the satisfaction of the Bank: (i) establishment of a decentralized regional 
water supply company to assume the responsibilities for water and sewerage services 
related to the respective integrated water system; (ii) effective transfer by the 
respective governmental authorities to the above decentralized regional water supply 
company of an amount not less than ten (10) percent of the cost of the respective 
Project activities under Part B.3; and (iii) the commitment by the respective 
governmental authorities to adopt a policy of cost-recovery, financial sustainability 
and promotion of private sector participation;
(k)
"Fiduciary Bank" means a financial institution, acceptable to the Bank, 
for purposes of administering the funds allocated to Part A of the Project under the 
terms and conditions of the Trust Fund Operating Agreement;
(l)
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year commencing on January 1 and ending on 
December 31;
(m)
"Hidroven Charter" means the Estatutos of Hidroven, dated May 24, 1990, 
and registered on May 24, 1990 in the Registro Mercantil de la Circunscripcin Judicial 
del Distrito Federal y el Estado Miranda, as the same may be amended from time to 
time;
(n)
"Hidroven Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and 
Hidroven of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all Schedules and agreements supplemental to the Hidroven Project 
Agreement;
(o)
"MARNR" means the Borrower's Ministry of the Environment and Natural 
Resources, Ministerio del Ambiente y de los Recursos Naturales Renovables;
(p)
"Mancomunidad" means the Mancomunidad Monaguense de Acueductos, a legal 
entity established on September 30, 1992 by all municipalities in the State of Monagas 
for purposes of coordinating the provision of water supply and sewerage services in 
the State of Monagas;
(q)
"Management Contract" means the agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, to 
be entered into between AdM, and a private entity, acceptable to the Bank, for the 
provision by such private entity of management services to AdM as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Management Agreement;
(r)
"MF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, Ministerio de Hacienda;
 
(s)
"PU" means the Project Unit (Unidad Ejecutora Sectorial), established by 
Hidroven through its Acta No.7, dated February 14, 1995 for purposes of the overall 
coordination of the implementation of the Project;
(t)
"Regulatory Study" means the study, carried out by Hidroven and financed 
under the grant agreement dated July 24, 1992 between the Republic of Venezuela and 
the Bank, on the design of an improved legal and regulatory framework for the water 
Page  4
supply and sewerage sector in Venezuela;
(u)
"Reference Rate" means the annual weighted average non-preferential 
lending rate (tasa de inters anual promedio nacional ponderada de las operaciones 
activas no preferenciales) charged by the six commercial banks in Venezuela with 
greater amount of deposits, as such rate is calculated, and published in the Boletn de 
Indicadores Semanales del Banco Central, by the Central Bank on a weekly basis;
(v)
"Residential Reference Water Tariff" means the reference tariff for 
residential consumers (precio medio referencial para uso residencial) as provided in 
the Resolucin Conjunta of the Borrower's Ministerio de Fomento and MARNR No. 182 and 
134, dated April 15, 1993 and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette dated April 
14, 1993;
(w)
"Rural Operational Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, to 
be approved by AdM pursuant to paragraph 3 (d) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; such 
manual to contain the rules and procedures for the implementation of Part A.3 of the 
Project; 
(x)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(y)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, to 
be entered into among the Borrower, through MF and MARNR, Hidroven and AdM pursuant to 
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Subsidiary 
Agreement;
(z)
"State of Monagas" means the Estado Monagas, a political subdivision in 
the territory of the Borrower;
(aa)
"Technical Assistance Contract" means the agreement, satisfactory to the 
Bank, to be entered into by AdM and a private entity, acceptable to the Bank, for 
purposes of securing from such private entity the provision of technical assistance in 
the implementation of Part A.3 of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Technical Assistance Contract;
(bb)
"Trust Fund Operating Agreement" means the agreement, satisfactory to the 
Bank, to be entered into, pursuant to Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement, between AdM 
and the Fiduciary Bank for purposes of, inter alia, entrusting the latter with the 
administration of all funds to be provided for the financing of Part A of the Project; 
such agreement to contain the terms and conditions under which the Fiduciary Bank 
shall administer such funds; and
(cc)
"Users Hydrographic Confederation" means an association of users and 
stakeholders referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement with the authority to 
establish and implement management criteria and principles for the allocation and 
protection of water resources in a
specified area.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirty 
nine million dollars ($39,000,000).
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its central bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
Page  5
date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
(A)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); 
(B)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single 
currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) 
months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on 
the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said 
period of its
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall: (i) cause AdM and Hidroven to perform all their obligations set forth in the 
AdM Project Agreement and the Hidroven Project Agreement; (ii) take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
Page  6
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable AdM and Hidroven to perform such  
obligations; and (iii) not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
As part of, and without limitation to paragraph (a) above, the Borrower 
shall, through MF and MARNR, enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with 
AdM and Hidroven for purposes of:
(i)
making available to AdM the Loan proceeds allocated to Parts A.1 
and A.2 of the Project under, inter alia, the following terms and 
conditions: (A) repayment and grace periods not longer than the 
repayment and grace periods of the Loan; (B) a loan denominated 
and payable in Bs; and (C) an interest on principal, withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate, adjustable on a monthly 
basis, and equal to, at least, the Reference Rate;
(ii)
making available, on a grant basis, to AdM the Loan proceeds 
allocated to Part A.3 of the Project; and
(iii)
making available, on a grant basis, to Hidroven the Loan proceeds 
allocated to Part B of the Project.
(c)
The Borrower shall duly perform all of its obligations and exercise its 
rights under the Subsidiary Agreement, in such manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, fail 
to enforce or waive the Subsidiary Agreement, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03.  The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the 
Project shall be carried out by AdM pursuant to Section 2.03 of the AdM Project 
Agreement and in respect of Part B of the Project shall be carried out by Hidroven 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Hidroven Project Agreement.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
participate in the annual reviews referred to in Section 2.06 of the AdM 
Project Agreement and Section 2.07 of the Hidroven Project Agreement; and
(b)
take or cause to be taken any action as recommended pursuant to Section 
2.06 (c) of the AdM Project Agreement and Section 2.07 (c) of the Hidroven Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall: (a) not later than July 31, 1997, prepare and 
submit, jointly with Hidroven, a detailed action plan to establish, under a timetable 
and design satisfactory to the Bank, a Users Hydrographic Confederation for the 
management of water resources in the Amana and Guarapiche river basins in the State of 
Monagas; and (b) implement, and cause to be implemented, the above action plan in 
accordance with its terms.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
Page  7
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and separate accounts referred to in paragraph 
(a) (i) of this Section and those for the Special Account for each 
Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in no case not later 
than six months after the end of each Fiscal Year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a)  The Borrower and the Bank shall, from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views with regard to the Borrower's pricing policies 
and its plans in respect of the over-all development of the water supply and sewerage 
sector.
(b)
The Borrower agrees, as long as it exercises control over the setting of 
prices of the water supply and sewerage companies, to establish prices for the water 
supply and sewerage services provided by AdM which would allow AdM, under conditions 
of efficient operation at reasonable levels of capacity utilization, to cover its 
operating costs including taxes, earn an adequate return on funds invested in it, meet 
its financial obligations and make a reasonable contribution to future investment for 
expansion of capacity.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
AdM shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the AdM 
Project Agreement.
(b)
Hidroven shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Hidroven Project Agreement.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that AdM or Hidroven will be able to perform their obligations under the AdM Project 
Agreement and Hidroven Project  Agreement, respectively.
(d)
The AdM Charter or the Hidroven Charter shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in 
the opinion of the Bank, the ability of AdM or Hidroven to perform any of their 
obligations under the AdM Project Agreement and the Hidroven Project Agreement, 
respectively.
(e)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of AdM or Hidroven or for the 
suspension of any of their operations.
(f)
Any of the parties to the Contract-Plan shall have failed to perform any 
of its obligations thereunder.
(g)
Any of the parties to the Trust Fund Operating Agreement shall have 
failed to perform any of its obligations thereunder. 
Page  8
(h)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
IDB Loan shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the IDB Loan 
Agreement; or
(B)
the IDB Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement;
(i)
The conditions of first disbursement under the IDB Loan Agreement 
shall have not been fulfilled by not later than one year after the Effective Date, or 
such date as the Bank may agree, provided, however, that the provisions of this 
paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank 
that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources 
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
(j)
the Borrower's central bank should, at any time, cease to calculate or 
publish the Reference Rate or the Reference Rate shall, at any time, fail to reflect, 
in the opinion of the Bank, a rate freely determined between the respective parties.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur;
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) or (d) or (f) or (g) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of ninety 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (h) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (h) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower, AdM 
and Hidroven;
(b)
the Contract-Plan has been executed on behalf of the State of Monagas, 
AdM and the Authorizing Municipalities;
(c)
the Residential Reference Water Tariff for the State of Monagas has been 
increased to Bs 60 per cubic meter and such increase has been made effective;
(d)
the Trust Fund Operating Agreement has been executed; and
 
(e)
AdM and Hidroven have adopted accounting and monitoring procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 6.02.  The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
Page  9
(a)
that the AdM Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
AdM, and is legally binding upon AdM in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the Hidroven Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by Hidroven, and is legally binding upon Hidroven in accordance with its terms;
(c)
that each of the Subsidiary Agreement, Trust Fund Operating Agreement and 
the Contract-Plan have been duly authorized or ratified by the respective parties 
thereto and are legally binding upon each of such parties in accordance with their 
respective terms; and
(d)
the action taken pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement is 
legally valid and binding.
Section 6.03.  The date December 31, 1996 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Direccin General Sectorial
   de Finanzas Pblicas
Edificio Norte, Piso 5
Centro Simn Bolvar
Caracas 1010, Venezuela
Telex:
24215 HDACP
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) and
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
By /s/ Luis Ral Matos Azcar
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  10
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                               Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated            % of
                              (Expressed in         Expenditures
                                  Dollar                to be
     Category                   Equivalent)            Financed
(1)  Consultants'
     Services
     (a) Part A                  4,600,000          100%
     (b) Part B                  9,100,000
(2)  Goods
     (a) Parts A.1               9,200,000          75% of expenditures
         and A.2                                    incurred until
                                                    December 31, 1998
                                                    up to an aggregate
                                                    amount of $6,250,000
                                                    and 65% thereafter
     (b) Part A.3                1,400,000          75% of expenditures
                                                    incurred until
                                                    December 31, 1998
                                                    and up to an
                                                    aggregate amount of
                                                    $600,000; and 65%
                                                    thereafter
     (c) Part B                    200,000          100%
(3)  Works
     (a) Parts A.1 and A.2      11,800,000          55% of expendi-
                                                    tures incurred
                                                    until December 31,
                                                    1998 and up to an
                                                    aggregate amount
                                                    of $7,400,000; and
                                                    45% thereafter
     (b) Part A.3                  700,000          55% of expenditures
                                                    incurred until
                                                    December 31, 1998 and
                                                    up to an aggregate
                                                    amount of $300,000;
                                                    and 45% thereafter
(4) Unallocated                  2,000,000
     TOTAL                      39,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
Page  11
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after October 2, 1995;
(b)
payments made for expenditures under categories (2) (a) and (3) (a) for 
Part A.2 (b) of the Project unless: (i) the Management Contract has been executed and 
is effective; and (ii) the Bank has received a certified copy of the executed 
Management Contract and a legal opinion, satisfactory to the Bank, of counsel 
acceptable to the Bank showing that the Management Contract has been duly authorized 
or ratified by the parties thereto and is legally binding on such parties in 
accordance with its terms;
(c)
payments made for expenditures under categories (2) (a) and (3) (a) for 
Part A.2 (c) of the Project unless: (i) the Management Contract is effective; (ii) AdM 
is in compliance with the
obligations set forth in Sections 4.02, 4.03, and 4.04 of the AdM Project Agreement; 
(iii) AdM has substantially achieved, to the satisfaction of the Bank, the targets set 
forth in the Schedule to the AdM Project Agreement for the year 1996; and (iv) the 
Bank has determined, based on forecasts satisfactory to the Bank, that AdM will 
substantially meet, to the satisfaction of the Bank, the targets referred to in (ii) 
above for the then current year;
(d)
payments made for expenditures under categories (1) (a), 2 (b) and (3) 
(b) for Part A.3 of the Project unless: (i) the Technical Assistance Contract has been 
executed; (ii) a transfer
of, at least, $150,000 equivalent has been made by the State of Monagas, from its own 
resources, to the fund administered under the Trust Fund Operating Agreement for 
purposes of covering expenditures under Part A.3 of the Project; and (iii) the Rural 
Operational Manual has been approved;
(e)
payments made for expenditures under categories (1) (b) and (2) (c) for 
Part B of the Project, unless Hidroven has contracted as part of the PU, under terms 
of reference satisfactory
to the Bank, experts in the following areas: financial, procurement, sanitary 
engineering, social communications and legal; and
(f)
payments made for expenditures under categories (2) (a) and (3) (a) for 
Part A.2 of the Project and in respect of the Municipality of Cedeo or any new 
municipality established in the
State of Managas unless: (i) all the necessary action, satisfactory to the Bank, shall 
have been taken to authorize or ratify, as the case may be, AdM to assume the 
responsibility to provide the water and sewerage services in the concerned 
jurisdiction; and (ii) the Municipality of Cedeo or said new municipality have adhered 
to the Contract-Plan under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent; (b) contracts for works costing less than $250,000 
equivalent excluding the first two contracts; (c) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (d) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The overall objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in increasing the 
efficiency and quality of water and sanitation services in Venezuela through the 
development of a model for
decentralization, institutional strengthening and expanded private sector 
participation. Specific objectives are to: (a) strengthen the institutional 
capabilities, improve the financial self-sufficiency, and involve the private sector 
in the management and operation, of AdM; (b) rehabilitate and improve the quality of 
water and sanitation services in the State of Monagas; and (c) support sector 
development and decentralization at the national level.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
Page  12
objectives:
Part A:
Regional Component (State of Monagas)
 
1.
Institutional Strengthening
 
(a)
Provision of services to AdM under the Management Contract.
 
(b)
A program to assist AdM in: (i) the promotion of private sector 
participation in the provision of water and sanitation services; (ii) the improvement 
of its commercial practices; and (iii) the supervision of the Management Contract and 
the implementation of the Project including execution of a public information campaign 
and surveys of consumer satisfaction.
(c)
(i)  Development of an expansion program for the water sector and a 
master plan for the sewerage subsector; (ii) development of a preventive maintenance 
program; and (iii) final engineering designs of rehabilitation works under this 
Project.
2.
Urban Rehabilitation
 
(a)
Execution of emergency investments in the State of Monagas, as described 
in Annex 1 to this Schedule, to avoid the physical collapse of the urban water supply 
systems, correct the principal water losses and water quality problems and help lessen 
acute water shortages.
(b)
Execution of priority rehabilitation investments in the State of Monagas, 
as described in Annex 2 to this Schedule, primarily aimed at the reduction of 
unaccounted for water and improvements of the efficiency of the system.
(c)
Execution of investments to improve the quality of service in the State 
of Monagas as described in Annex 3 to this Schedule. 
3.
Rural Rehabilitation
 
(a)
Execution of Eligible Rural Subprojects.
 
(b)
A program to: (i) carry out a campaign to promote the activities under 
Part A.3 of the Project; (ii) develop and implement a model of local organization for 
the operation and maintenance of rural water systems; (iii) assist local communities 
in the design of subproject proposals and in building their capacities to assume 
responsibility for the management of the rural water systems; and (iv) assist 
municipalities in strengthening their technical capabilities in the operation of rural 
water systems.
Part B:
National Component
 
1.
A program consisting of:
 
(a)
Institutional strengthening of Hidroven through: (i) a study to define 
the organizational structure of the sector, based on the results and recommendations 
of the Regulatory Study and the Bank's comments thereon; (ii) the design and 
implementation of policies and administrative procedures in areas such as budget 
formulation and control, human resources policy and accounting and finances; and (iii) 
development and implementation of a management information system in Hidroven to 
strengthen its capabilities to monitor technical and economical aspects of the water 
supply and sewerage sector.
(b)
Development of sectoral norms and standards for the water supply and 
sewerage sector including technical standards and model by-laws and regulations 
required by states and municipalities to complement the national legal and regulatory 
framework.
(c)
Development and implementation of general policies for: (i) the 
management of shared resources including: (A) preparation of an inventory of shared 
resources; and (B) development of a model for the institutional framework, financing 
and regulations in connection with the decentralized management of shared resources; 
(ii) the management of rural water systems including: (A) the preparation of an 
inventory of rural water systems; (B) development and testing of various  models for 
operation and maintenance, community participation and financing of future 
investments; and (C) execution of a study to determine ability of users to pay for 
water and sewerage services in rural areas; and (iii) promotion of private sector 
Page  13
participation through a study to evaluate diverse institutional arrangements at the 
regional level to enable the establishment of local water companies and the 
development of a general policy to promote private sector participation in the 
management of water supply and sewerage services including the preparation of 
contracts,  regulations and bidding documents and procedures in connection with 
concessions, performance-based management and operation contracts and maintenance 
contracts.
(d)
Design, establishment and operation of a Users Hydrographic Confederation 
for the management of water resources in the Amana and Guarapiche river basins in the 
State of Monagas.
2.
A national training program consisting of:
 
(a)
A training subprogram, including field visits, study tours, seminars and 
workshops, for selected representatives of the legislative and executive branches at 
the national, regional and local levels for purposes of supporting the approval and 
implementation of an improved legal and regulatory framework for the water supply and 
sewerage sector in Venezuela.
(b)
An integrated training subprogram for selected staff at the national, 
regional and local levels in management and technical aspects related to water supply 
and sewerage services.
(c)
A subprogram to design and implement a national multimedia campaign to 
inform the public on the reform process in the water and sewerage sector and build 
support for such reform process with emphasis in areas of water conservation, 
cost-recovery and pollution control.
3.
A subprogram for purposes of decentralizing the provision of water supply and 
sewerage services in connection with, at least, four Eligible Water Systems, 
including: (a) institutional design; (b) improvement of managerial and commercial 
practices; (c) preparation of investment programs for the rehabilitation of the water 
supply and sewerage system; and (d) economic and financial analysis in connection with 
the decentralization model and the rehabilitation programs.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
ANNEX 1
Emergency Investments
(1)
Municipality of Acosta
 
(i)
Construction of an additional pump station; (ii) replacement of all pumps 
in the pumping and automation station; (iii) acquisition and installation of an 
additional pump in the Santa Rosa pumping station; (iv) acquisition and installation 
of accessories in the impulsion to the 1,200 m3 tank; and (v) improvement of the 
chlorination system to achieve adequate residual chlorine in all the network at all 
times.
(2)
Municipality of Bolvar
 
(i)
Improvement of the existing pumping station in the catchment; (ii) 
improvement of the pumping and automation station; (iii) rehabilitation of Los 
Cerritos tank; and (iv) acquisition and
installation of equipment for the treatment plants.
(3)
Municipality of Caripe
 
(i)
Improvement of the Caripe river catchment; (ii) acquisition and 
installation of pumping equipment in the treatment plant; and (iii) improvements of 
the water distribution network.
(4)
Municipality of Cedeo
 
(i)
Repair of the impulsion from the 1,200 m3 tank to the elevated tank; and 
(ii) improvements of the treatment system.
(5)
Municipality of Ezequiel Zamora
Page  14
(i)
Replacement of all impulsion pipes; (ii) acquisition and installation of 
pumping equipment for wells; and (iii) repair of tank air intake pumps.
(6)
Municipality of Libertador
 
Protection of equipment for emergency wells and pumps.
(7)
Municipality of Piar
 
(i)
Replacement of all impulsion pipes; and (ii) improvements in the Aparicio 
treatment plant.
(8)
Municipality of Punceres
 
Replacement of adduction pipes.
(9)
Municipality of Sotillo
 
(i)
Replacement of wells adduction; and (ii) improvements of the potable 
water treatment plant.
(10)
Municipality of Maturn
 
(i)
Replacement of equipment in the Lower Guarapiche treatment plant; (ii) 
improvement of the Lower Guarapiche treatment plant's outlet; (iii) rehabilitation of 
filters in the Lower Guarapiche treatment plant; (iv) rehabilitation of the Rojo tank; 
and (v) construction of the main pipeline from the Rojo tank to the Alto Guri tank.
ANNEX 2
Priority Rehabilitation Investments
(1)
Municipality of Acosta
 
(i)
Adaptation of the treatment plant to 120 1/sec; (ii) adaptation of the 
impulsion to the 1,000 cubic meters tank; (iii) rehabilitation of the provisional 
water outlet in the Colorado
river; and (iv) improvement and extension of the tank to 5,000 cubic meters.
(2)
Municipality of Bolvar
 
(i)
Replacement of all pipes in the water supply distribution network; (ii) 
improvement and extension of the tank to 5,000 cubic meters; and (iii) improvements 
and replacement in the sewerage network.
(3)
Municipality of Caripe
 
Improvements and replacements in the water supply distribution network.
(4)
Municipality of Cedeo
 
(i)
Improvement and extension of the treatment plant to 60 1/sec; (ii) 
replacement of the impulsion pipe; (iii) rehabilitation of the outlet and adaptation 
of pumps; and (iv) replacement of all pipes in the water supply distribution network.
(5)
Municipality of Ezequiel Zamora
 
(i)
Improvement of the chlorination system to achieve adequate residual 
chlorine in all the network at all times; (ii) adaptation of the pumping equipment; 
and (iii) improvement and replacements in the water supply distribution network.
(6)
Municipality of Libertador
 
(i)
Improvements and replacements in the water supply distribution network; 
and (ii) conversion of the multiple-well system to a two-well system.
(7)
Municipality of Maturn
 
(i)
Repair and rehabilitation of the Amana water system; (ii) extension of 
the Lower Guarapiche treatment plant to 1,200 1/sec; (iii) construction of a 
complementary tank on a ground level of the Rojo tank; (iv) improvement and 
Page  15
replacements in the distribution network; (v) improvement of the treatment plant and 
pumping equipment; and (vi) extension of the tank to 1,000 cubic meters.
(8)
Municipality of Aguasay
 
(i)
Conversion of the multiple-well system to a two-well system; and (ii) 
extension of the elevated tank to 500 cubic meters.
(9)
Municipality of Santa Barbara
 
(i)
Conversion of the multiple-well system to a two-well system; (ii) 
extension of elevated tanks to 800 cubic meters; (iii) rehabilitation of the 
connection between wells and tanks; (iv) improvement and replacements in the sewerage 
network; and (v) improvement and extension of the treatment plant.
(10)
Municipality of Piar
 
(i)
Replacement of the adduction pipes; (ii) extension of the treatment plant 
to 30 1/sec; (iii) improvement and replacements in the distribution network; and (iv) 
improvement and replacements in the sewerage network.
(11)
Municipality of Punceres
 
(i)
Rehabilitation of the Punceres river outlet; (ii) improvement and 
adaptation for pumping treated water; (iii) repairs for the tank; (iv) improvement and 
replacements in the sewerage network; and (v) adaptation of the marginal drainpipe.
(12)
Municipality of Sotillo
 
(i)
Improvement and replacements in the distribution network; (ii) adaptation 
of the marginal drainpipe; and (iii) adjustment of the sewerage pumping station.
(13)
Municipality of Uracoa
 
(i)
Repair of wells; and (ii) conversion of the multiple-well system to a 
two-well system.
ANNEX 3
Improvement of Service Quality Investments
(1)
Municipality of Acosta
 
Replacement of all pipes in the distribution network.
(2)
Municipality of Bolvar
 
(i)
Adaptation of the marginal drainpipe; and (ii) improvement and 
replacements in the sewerage network.
(3)
Municipality of Caripe
 
(i)
Extension of wastewater purification to 130 1/sec; and (ii) improvements 
and replacements in the sewerage network.
(4)
Municipality of Ezequiel Zamora
 
(i)
Extension of the elevated tank to 1,500 cubic meters; (ii) adaptation of 
the impulsion pipes to the tanks; and (iii) improvement and replacements in the 
sewerage network.
(5)
Municipality of Libertador
 
(i)
Improvement and replacements in the sewerage network; (ii) rehabilitation 
of the sewerage pumping station; and (iii) adaptation of the oxidation pool to 30 
1/sec.
(6)
Municipality of Maturn
 
(i)
Rehabilitation of the Cerro Colorado treatment plant; (ii) merger of the 
Cerro C Colorado plant to the Alto Guri tank; (iii) rehabilitation of the sewerage 
pumping station; (iv) adaptation of the wastewater purification; (v) improvements and 
Page  16
replacements in the sewerage network; (vi) adaptation of the marginal drainpipe; and 
(vii) extension of the purification plant to 40 1/sec.
(7)
Municipality of Piar
 
(i)
Extension of the tanks to 4,000 cubic meters; and (ii) extension of the 
oxidation pool to 30 1/sec.
(8)
Municipality of Punceres
 
Repair and replacements for the adduction.
(9)
Municipality of Sotillo
 
(i)
Improvement and replacements in the sewerage network; and (ii) extension 
of the oxidation pool to 80 1/sec.
(10)
Municipality of Uracoa
 
Improvements and replacements in the sewerage network.
(11)
Municipality of Cedeo
 
(i)
Improvement of the impulsion pipe; (ii) improvement and replacements in 
the distribution network; and (iii) improvement and extension of the purification pool 
to 60 1/sec.
(12)
Municipality of Aguasay
 
(i)
Improvement and replacements of the sewerage network; and (ii) extension 
of the oxidation pool to 25 1/sec.
(13)
Municipality of Santa Barbara
 
Improvement and replacements in the sewerage network.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
 
On each February 15 and  August 15
beginning February 15, 2002
1,625,000.000
through February 15, 2013
and on August 15, 2013
1,625,000.000
 
Page  17
___________________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising.
 
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contractors under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent but more than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract and $7,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided in Part C.2 of this Schedule, works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(c)
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more each.
(d)
Standard bidding documents, acceptable to the Bank, shall be utilized in 
the procurement of goods and works awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Procurement of Small Works
 
Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract and 
$5,100,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under fixed unit price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from, at least, three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
Page  18
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to  successfully complete the contract.
3.
International or National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract and $4,600,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to: (a) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more; (b) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more; and (c) the
first two contracts for works irrespective of their amount, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above;
and (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising 
the contract value to  $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
Page  19
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount of $2,400,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
Page  20
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
