Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
May 15, 1998
Mr. Freddy Rojas Parra 
Minister of Finance
Ministerio de Hacienda
Dirección General Sectorial
  de Finanzas Públicas
Edificio Norte, Piso 5
Centro Simón Bolívar
Caracas 1010, Venezuela
                    Re:  VENEZUELA - Japanese Grant for the Water
  and Sewerage Decentralization Project
TF No. 025344
Dear Sir:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in 
an amount not exceeding eight hundred and twenty thousand U.S. dollars (US$820,000) (the Grant) to 
the Republic of Venezuela (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter-Agreement.  The Recipient 
hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to 
this Letter-Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and 
on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, dating, 
and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter-Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of the copy of 
this Letter-Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter-Agreement will become effective as of the date 
of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Andrés Solimano
Country Managing Unit Director
Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
Page  2
By /s/ Freddy Rojas Parra
Authorized Representative
Date:
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purposes of the Grant are to assist in the preparation of a project for the decentralization of 
water supply and sanitation services in a selected group of States of the Recipient, including private 
sector participation in the delivery of such services (the Project).  The activities (the Activities) for which 
the Grant is given consist of the provision of technical assistance for: (a) review and analysis of local and 
national legislation affecting the management of water supply and sanitation services when .such services 
are provided across several jurisdictions, and development of options and recommendations of 
instruments to address the specific conditions of the participating States and to define base indicators to 
monitor operational improvements; (b) study and design of an effective and politically viable mechanism 
for the establishment of financially adequate tariff structures and levels in multi-city and/or multi-state 
environments; (c) study and design of mechanisms for the sustainable financing of water supply and 
sanitation service improvements in marginal and rural areas, in order to ensure that the decentralization 
of such services has a positive impact on the living conditions of the lower-income sectors of society, 
while allowing for the financial viability of the water supply and sanitation companies; (d) development 
of options for the efficient management of water resources and the protection of their supporting 
environment, including the feasibility and convenience of separating the management of watershed 
protection, water production, and water distribution and sewerage, according to the characteristics of 
each participating State, and determination of a methodology to address relevant environmental concerns; 
(e) establishment of baseline data on poverty and public health conditions in the participating States, and 
design of appropriate monitoring systems to measure and assess the impact of the changes in the 
operations of water supply and sanitation systems on such conditions; (f) organization of workshops for 
the inclusion of public interest groups, non-governmental organizations, neighbor associations and other 
sectors of society in the design and promotion of the different decentralization proposals; and (g) Project 
feasibility financial and economic studies, including willingness-to-pay studies, to determine conditions 
for the commercial feasibility of the decentralized water supply and sanitation companies.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance the services of consultants (the Consultants) required for the 
Page  3
carrying out of the Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out, on behalf of the Recipient, the Activities.  The Recipient shall 
cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to carry out the Activities promptly 
and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank 
against any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection 
with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or 
external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by February 28, 1999.  After that date, the 
Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the Consultants) shall be the responsibility solely of the 
Bank and shall be done according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or permanent 
residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities. Whether 
or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, after consultation 
with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of 
the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter-Agreement, or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the 
Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan 
agreement with the  Bank or any development credit agreement with the International Development 
Association shall have been suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not 
expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
