Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USk ONLY
Report No. 4804-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TNDONESIA
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
March 23, 1984
East Asia and Pacific
Transportation Division 2
This document has a restricted dtitribution anJ may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may otot otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00             Rp 1,000
Rp 1,000            US$1.00
Rp 1,000,000        US$1,000
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - Marclh 31
PRINCIPAIL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AMC               -  Asphalt Mixing Center
Asbuton           -  Natural 7rOck asphalt from Buton Island
ASEAN             -  Associatlon of South-East Asian Nations
C7PTA KARYA       -  Directorate General of Housing, Building, Planning
and Urban Development
BAPPENAS          -- National Planning Agency
DBM               -  Provincial Highway Directorate
DGH               -  Directorate General of Highways
DGs               -  Directorates General of the Ministry of Public Works
DPMJ              -  Ir.donesian Road Research Laboratory (of DGH)
DPUK              -  Zocal government departnment of public works
DPPUP             -  Provincial government department of public works
DWT               -  Deadweight tons
Genmerri          -  Generalized Model for the Evaluation of Rural Road Improvements
GOI               -  Government of Indonesia
HRS               -  Hot rolled sheet (type of pavement overlay)
[IRTS             -  Highway and Road Transport Study
INPRES            -  Special programs governed by presidential decrees
ITB               -  Institute of Technology, Bandung
Jasa Marga        -  Indonesian Toll Road Corporation
MHA               -  Ministry of Home Affairs
MO0U              -  Ministry of Communications
MOF               -  Ministry of Finance
MPW               -  Ministry of Public Works
Nacas             -  Non-aggregated cold asbuton sheet
OECF              -  Japanese aid agency
PAN               -  Indonesian State Asr,.alt Corporation
PERJAN            -  Semi-autonomous goNernnent entity
PUSDIKLAT         -  Ministry of Public Works Training Department
RBO               -  Regional Betterment Office (of DGH)
Repelita          -  Indonesian National Five Year Development Plan
SEP               -  Sufficiency Engineering Proposal
SFO               -  Screening Feasibility Office (of DGH)
SOE               -  State Owned Enterprise, and Statement of Expenditures
SPN               -  Transport sector development guide
tJCL              -  University College of London
UNDP              -  United Nations Development Programme
UNIDO             -  UN Industrial Development Organization
Vpd               -  vehicles per day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ItNDONESIA
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.  Transport and National Develop3ent ......................             1
B. The Transport System2..................... . *.*...... .               2
C.  Transport Development Programs and Financinl......e...                2
D. Sector Management                                                      3
E.  Transport Sector Issues in the 19808....................              5
F.  Bank Sector Support Strategy............................              6
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
Ao The Ntok, ..........                                                   6
B.  Traffic and Road Transport.............................               7
C.  Highway Mainagement and Operations......................             10
D.  Highway Engineering. .o..o..o..... ... .*...*. **...... .            17
E.  Highway Development Programs and Financing...0.....,..             18
F.  Previous Bank Financed Highway Projects.................             21
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectiveso..**.*e..e.oge..ge..*..o eo** . * e.....* 0ee 0            22
B. Project Scope. ... .................                                  22
C.  Project Desription                                                   23
D.  Cost Estimates.o.i..*.................eseeceeeecg..0 ege.            27
Eo  Financing........oe........o...eo..og.ee.....ecg....   .., 29
F.  Implementation apd Procurement.........e............,, ,,            29
G.  Disbursements . g e . * e ec .e.c   e.ee.ee.  . g..g.e.. c,          32
H.  Accounts, Auditing and Reporting                                     32
I.  Status of Preparation. .. eec o....  a  oqo.... .eece. ee.           33
J.  Environmental Aspects. ..... ...oo o,.eo,ecc..e.*g..oo               33
The report is based on findings of an appraisal mission consisting of Messrs.
S.O. Sigfusson (Senior Engineer), H. Peters (Economist/Deputy Division Chief),
W. Hoehenwarter (Financial Analyst), R. S. Millard (Consultant Engineer) and
Mrs. J. Wishart (Economist) which visited Indonesia in May/June 19836
Mr. M. S. Parthasarathi (Senior Economist) participated in writing the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
the.r oMncial duties. Its coltents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization,



Page No.
TV.   ECON(ThIGC EVALUATION
B   Betterment Program.        . .    . .  . .  . . *. . , ,. ,. .O.  ...Oa   *V , . *  34
C.  Upgrading/Rehabilitation Program.. .................... .              35
D.  Bridge Replacement Program..................... . , * * , *  . ..      35
E.  Economic Returns and Risks................         .........           36
F.  Beneficiaries.......*......                     .......... ., .       38
V.    AGREEIIENTS AND RECOfENDATIONS ....................        .               38
ANNEXES
1.    Standards for Betterment Works- ,........                                   40
2,    Project Implementation Schedule..,. .....................                   41
3.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File...                44
SUPPORTING FABLES
2.1   Length of Roads by Administrative Categories, 1982..........                47
2.2   Summary of the Type and Condition of Pavements..............               48
2.3   Condition of and Traffic on Arterial and Collector Roads in
Marcb 1982 ........ 0...-.. ,0  .                                        49
2.4   Vehicles Registered, 1969-81.............. .................. .             50
2.5   Traffic Growth by Province,   .. 0 , ....... ................. .            51
2.6   DGH Geometric Design Standards..+  .............. .......                   52
2.7   Gross Domestic Product and Central Government Budget,*......
;.xpenditures by Type, 1977-81 .......................                   53
2,8   Central Government Highway Expenditures By Type of Road
and Expenditure, 1977-81 .................        ........              54
2.9   Provincial Government Highway Expenditures By Type of
Road and Expenditure, 1919-81 ............................               55
2.10  DGR Highway Development Programs                   ,                        56
3,1   Betterment Program, Phase I.................................                57
3.2   Upgrading/Rehabilitation Program of Key Roads,
First Year Program (1984/85) ...............                             58
3.3   Bridge Replacement Program                                                  59
3.4   Cost                                    Esiae..........+60
3.5   Schedule of Estimated Dishursements...........................              61
4.1   Road User Costs on Improved Road in South Sumatra..........s                62
4,2   Basic Road User Costs by Region ............................                63
4.3   Road User Savings on a Sample Road Section                                  64
4.4   Sample Test on Economic Returns............................                 65



- iii -
Page No.
CHARTS
1.    Central and Provincial Public Works Organizations in
Relation to Highway Administratln .......................               66
2.    Provincial Department of Public Works (DPUP),
Organization Chart for West Sumr,tra ........'.............             67
3.    Typical Organization Chart of Kabupaten Public Works
Department (DPLIK)Q**, ......7***********                               68
4.    Source and Plow of Funds for Road Maintenace and Development.             69
MAYS
IBRD i7532 : Transportation Network
IBRD 17533 :  Highway Bettermei;t Project; Sumatera
IBRD 17534 : Highway Betterment Project; Java and Bali.
IBRD 17535R:  Highway Betterment Project; Kalimantan and Sulawesi



INDONESI A
HTGHWAY BETTERENT PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Transport and NationaL Develoment
1.01      Indonesia, the world's largest archipelago nation, ranks fifth in
population with over 150 million people. The archipelago extends some
5,000 km across the equator from northwestern Sumatra to Irian Jaya and com-
prises more than 13,000 islands of which Java, Sutmatra, Kalimantan and
Sulawesi are the largest. Indonesia has a total land area of 2 million
sq km. The extent of the country and its archipelagic nature imply diverse
climatic conditions, resource endowments and growth potential. Economic and
political integration of the different regions in the midst of such diversity
is an important policy objective of the Government of Indonesia (GOI), and
transportation has a crucial role in this effort. Between 1971 and 1980 the
country's gross domestic product (GDP) rose from Rp 5,454 billion to
10,954 billion in real terms, an averc'Ze annual growth rate of almost 8%. The
transport sector is estimated to have grown about 12% per annum during this
period and its contribution to GDP is now around 5%. GOl planners expect the
sector's share to increase to around 6% of GDP by the end of the century,
which implies an annual growth of around 10%.
1.02      With the country's wide geographic dimensions and large population,
attempts to cope with the necessarily diverse nature of transport demands
efficiently and equitably face a difficult tas'k compounded by the need to con-
stantly address newly emerging demands, resulting from:  developments in the
oil sector, the start-up of agricultural intensification programs, establisni-
ment of new domestic industries and iacreasing attention being paid by GOI to
regional development. Over the past decade, both domestic trade and trade
with the outside world have shown steady growth and these trends are expected
to continue. All these developments signify growing pressure on the country's
transport system. In addition, studies have revealed that there are consider-
able unfulfilled transport needs In many parts of the country.
1.03      Despite remarkable improvements both in area coverage and quality of
transport infrastructure and services in recent years, there is still a gap
between demand for and supply of transport facilities and services. The
czountry's dimensions and the uneven distributi'mn of income within the national
population make it difficult and expensive for GOI to pursue a transport
strategy aimed at providing both equal transport facilities to all segments of
the population and transport investments required by expanding economic activ-
ities. This difficulty is compounded by a high percentage of existing trans-
port infrastructure being in a deteriorated condition and needing rehabilita-
tion and soae upgrading to effectively fulfill its function. There are also
shortcomings in the management and operation of existing transport infrastruc-
ture and services. Revision of transport regulations in the light of



- 2 -
structural changes ir. the national economy and developments in the sector
Itself has been slow.  As a result, existing transport resources are often naot
utilized to thuir full potential. The wide variations in the availabiLity of
transport infrastructure and services in the different regions of the country
aggravate these problems.
B. The Transport System
1.04      Within the Indonesian transport system road transport is the princi-
pal mode. In terms of volumes, about 90% of all goods and more than 95% of
all passengers transported in Indonesia go by road.  The road network expanded
from 85,000 kem to 148,000 km between 1971 and 1983, while the annual growth of
road vehicles was 25-30% for commercial vehicles, 13% for cars and welL above
20% for motorcycles. In 1982 there were about 4.6 million vehicles on
Indonesia's roads. Further details on highways and road traffic are given in
Chapter II.
1.05      Maritime transport, although a distant second to roads in the over-
all transport picture, is very Important in inter-island transport, handling
about 95% of all freight movements and roughly 75% of all passenger travel
between the islands.  In 1980, the domestic shipping fleet incLuded some 6,600
units with a total capacity of aoout 1.7 million DWT. Domestic marine dry
cargo traffic has increased by roughly 15% annually during the past decade.
Approximately 400 ports and numerous landing points constitute the basic
infrastru_ture for maritime transport.  The maritime sector is presentLy
undergoing significant changes in fleet composition and port infrastructure in
response to modern developments in technology; these will improve efficiency
In cargo and passenger handling.
1.06      Indonesia has inherited an extensive railway system from pre-
independence days, comprising some 5,500 route-Kn and covering all of Java and
parts of Sumatra. As elsewhere in the world, the Indonesian State RaiLways
(PJKA) have experienced significant decline in traffic during thie 1970s;
passenger and freight traffic declined by 45% and 20%, respectively. Since
1978, however, there has been some slight recovery, and in 1980 PJKA carried
42.8 million passengers and 4.7 million tons of goods.
1.07      Domestic air transport increased rapidlyl during the 1970s; the
average annual growth rate for passenger traffic was 22% and the volume of
cargo carried in 1980 was seven times higher than in 1970. In 1980, a fleet
of about 550 aircraft carried about four million domestic passengers. There
are several thousand km of niavigable waterways amcng Indonesia's river
systems, and river transport has a potentially important role in the movement
of people and goods.
C. Transport Development Programs and Financing
1.08      In 1969, GOI initiated its first five-year national development
plan, Repelita I, covering the period through March 1974. About 15% of the
Repelita I investment total was allocated to the transport sector, represent-
ing Rp 342 billion. Only Rp 297 billion was actually spent, and roughLy 55%
of this was in road development.  Repelita II, spanning the period between



1974 and 1979, initially provided Rp 500 bilLion to _he transport sector,
which constituted 16% of the total development outlays; Rp 753 billion was
actually spent. This sizeable increase was due to the extra revenue accruing
to GOI after the 1973 oil price increase. Road developmasut accounted for
about 42% of all outlays in the transport sector during Repelita I1. GOt's
policy for the sector during the period 1969-79 emphasized rehabilitation and
improvement of existing transport infrastructure and services rather than
extension of the network and expantvion nf services. Repetita III, covering
the period between 1979 and 1984, provides for Rp 2,998 billion (about 14% of
the total plan budget) to be invested in transport development, with road
infrastructure getting more than half of the allocation. The increased share
for roads (over Repelita II) is partly attributable to G01's new emphasis on
rural roads as an explicit component of the broader rural development
8trategy.
1.09      In drawing up the fourth five-year development plan (Repelita IV),
covering 1984-1989, GOl institutions have to address the problems associated
with reduced foreign exchange earnings and ircreasingly severe budget limita-
tions. Several downward revisions of early plan drafts have already taken
place. The performance of Repelita III in the last two years was also influ-
enced by fiscal constraints. Of considerable burden to the Government's
finances are the costs of various subsidy schemes in the transport sector
which have been devised over time to offset apparent inequalities and also to
cover the difference between the costs and revenues of state transport corpo-
rations. The aggregate of all direct and indirect cash subsidies in the
transport sector amounted to Rp 821 million in 1980 (roughly 2% of GDP). Non-
cash subsidies were probably substantially higher: for petroleum derivatives
used in the transport sector alone (which were priced below ruling inter-
national prices) they were Rp 750 billion in 1980. But in early 1982 and
again in early 1983 and 1984, GOI increased the pump prices of fuel consider-
ably. Today the Pump prices of both gasoline and diesel fuel are well above
the world market prices. As a result, there are no longer any indirect non-
cash subsidies for petroleam derivatives used in the transport sector.
D. Sector Management
1.10      Three government agencies have prime responsibility for developing
the transport system and organizing its operations. The Ministry of Communi-
cations (HOC) plans, regulates and controls all transport modes. Detailed
planning for highways is under the Ministry of Public Works (MPW), through its
Directorate General of Highways (DGH). The national planning agency Badan
Perencaltaan Masional (BAPPENAS), reviews sectoral investment plans drawn up by
140C and MPW and approves, jointly with the Ministry of Finance (MOF), invest-
ment plans under the development budget. Both MOC and MPW are large bureau-
cracies, whereas BAPPENAS is a small organization with less than 10 profes-
sionals for transport. MPW's organization is replicated at the provincial and
kabupaten (district) levels by integrated public works organizations, which
report directly to the chiefs of the provincial and kabupaten governments,
which in turn are under the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).
1.11      In the past, planning and programming transpL-rt development has been
undertaken by the individual lir. agencies without effective coordination.



-4-
While BAPPENAS has tried to balance modal investment programs, the lack of an
overall transport development strategy has hampered rational decision-making
concerning the desirable, i.e. most cost-effective, roles of each mode in the
transport system. To remedy this situation MOC is preparing a broad transport
sector develoment guide, the Sistem Perhubutngan Nasional (SPN), taking into
account regional development plans and comparative advantages of each trans-
port mode. Parallel to the preparation of SPN, MOC's Directorates General of
Land and Sea Communications are drawing up comprehensive development plans for
land and maritime transport, with technical assistance under ongoing Bank-
financed projects, with Bank staff devoting a substantial proportion of trans-
port sector work to assisting in the preparation of these plans. Also, until
recently, transport planning was strongly centralized with limited participa-
tion of provincial and district authorities in the process. As a result,
regional problems and concerns were not properly reflected in the transport
development plans. This situation is gradually changing and central govern-
ment Iihue agencies are increasingly obtaining regional inputs into transport
sector planning.
1.12      Except for roads, MOC has the overall responsibility for managing
the transport system, including the railways. PJKA is organized as a Perjan
(a semi.-autonomous government entity) and is as such a special branch of
MOC.  All other state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in the transport sector are
directly under the supervision of MOC. MOC is still among the least developed
line agencies in GOI and consequently arrangements for managing and operating
transport services are in many cases inadequate, There are cri-ical shortages
of experienced managers and professionals; manifestations of MOC's limited
sector management capabilities are cumbersome port operation practices and
generally inefficient SOEs in the transport sector. These problems are
increased by GOI's subsidy policy as subsidies often mask the inefficiencies
in the system and impede innovation and the search for low-cost solutions.
The Bank is assisting GOI in addressing problems and issues with SOEs in the
transport sector through technical assistance under ongoing projects. As a
first step, a corporate plan will be established for each SOE in the maritime
sector as part of the Maritime Sector Development Program.
1.13      GOI's pricing and taxation policies in the transport sector have not
only generated substantial subsidy requirements but also distortions in the
provision of transport services. Prices charged for the use of transport
infrastructure and services are often not cost-based. Distortions induced by
regulations are particularly severe in the maritime sector where port opera-
tions and shipping services are heavily controlled. The regulatory framework
which governs the transport sector has thus been a major impediment to the
evolution of an efficient system.  Under the land and maritime transport
development programs, the Bank is helping MOC to address these issues and to
draw up an action plan for required regulatory reform.
1.14      Many transport related taxes have not been adjusted in line with
recent price movements and GOI's explicit economic, social and fiscal poli-
cies, and technology changes in the sector. In several instances taxes had
not been modified for more than ten years, as in road transport. As a result,
existing taxes often promote non-optimal transport arrangements and contribute
to government revenues in a much more modest way than they potentially



- 5 -
could.  There is an urgent need to review all taxes in the transport sector to
determine their effectiveness in contributing to GOI's economic, soci.al and
fiscal policies; substantial elements of the transport taxation system may
have to be restructured. Another problem is inadequate tax collection! only
about 55% of all collectable road transport taxes are in fact collected. The
proposed project would assist in efforts to improve the situation in these
matters (see also para. 2.43).
E.  Transport Sector Issues in the 1980s
1.15      During 1982 and 1983 the present condition and future prospects of
the Indonesian economy changed dramatically as a result of the worldwide
recession and tlhe softening in oil prices. The latter is serious for
Indonesia, as 60% of government revenues are derived from *axes on oil
companies and 70% of export earnings come from oil products. The deficit in
Indonesia's balance of payments current account was equivalent to about 8% of
GNP in early 1983. A, deficit of this size is not sustainable. GOI recognizes
that, in a conditioni of resource shortage, changes will be necessary to
mcbilize private sector funds if the rate of economic growth is not to fall
too steeply. The principal change needed is relaxation of government control
over sectors of the economy that are potentially suitable for commercial type
operation.
1.16      Rather than changing the policy direction in the transport sector,
the recession has, in general, made more evident the need to reduce and
eventually eliminate subsidies and deficit financing and to move the trat2sport
sector towards commercial viability. Centralized planning of transport
services needs to be rea,'.aced by a system, more oriented and responsive to
changes in the volume and structure of demand. In practice, this is likely to
mean that the public sector should concentrate on the provision and mainte-
nance of infrastructure, leaving the private sector to supply the services,
with GOI monitoring rather than setting tariffs. Such a division of functions
can be economically viable only if the users are charged the opportunity cost
of providing and maintaining the infrastructure. The present situation is
still far from that condition.
1.17      The complete removal or reduction of implicit (and explicit)
subsidies in the transport sector will result in tariff iacreases, but it
shuuld stimulate greater efficiency in the long run and therefore more
economic transport operations and services. GOI has already taken several
measures which are aimed at reducing subsidy payment:s and at increasing
private sector financing of transport investments. Following the announcement
of the sector budget for 1983, domestic oil prices were raised, and again in
1984, to eliminate practically all oil subsidies.  GOI i8 also encouraging
state institutions to rely less on government budgetary funds and to tap
market funds directly through the issues of domestic rupiah bonds. P.T. Jasa
Marga, the Indonesian Toll Road Corporation, was the first in two decades to
float bonds for this purpose (in 1983 and 1984). Also, tolls on toll roads
were raised by over 100% in July 1983.



- 6 -
F.  Bi3nk Sector Su jort Strategy
1.18      In Lts general approach the Bank's strategy to support transport
development in Indonesia is geared to assist GO[ In carryinlg out the necessary
adjustments in the sector in line wich economic development trends.  Adjust-
mnents are required noL only in phlystcal faciLLtLes but also in sector policies
and management arrangements.  The aim is Lo gradually establish an efficient
transport system which is demand-responsive and financially self-supporting.
This should help to remove the many internal as well as external factors which
impede the transport system's performance.
1.19      The Bank's ongoing and proposed sector assistance program is three-
pronged, i.e. in (a) general sector development policies and management;
(b) highway development; and (c) maritime transport development. As an
integral part of all ongoing and proposed future transport lending operations,
the Bank will assist MOC in revising existing transport development and
regulatory policies and related arrangements, in support of GOI's overall
economic, fiscal and social policies. Substantial assistance will also be
provided to improve MOC's sector management capabilities.
1.20      The Bank's highway sector support strat-Agy concentrates on required
network development and improving road maintenance in accordance with cost-
effective technical standards and operational arrangements. Special emphasis
is on increasing regionalization of highway management functions. Substantial
support has already been provided in training highway administrators and
professionals, and in developing the capacities of local highway consultants
and contractors. There have been encouraging improvements in highway manage-
ment recently ana further assistance is included in the proposed project to
continue the process.
1.21      The maritime sector is a key element in attempts to improve external
and local trade, particularly in the context of GOI's policy to diversify the
country's export base.  The Bank is assisting GOI in establishing a maritime
sector development program wl-ch will set the stage for required regulatory
and sector management reforms to improve systemn performance.  Two maritime
lending operations are scheduled over the next four years; they would include
the implementation of regulatory and management reforms and investments
required for system expansion in line with projected growth in sea transport
requirements.
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSHCTOR
A. The Network
2.01      Indonesia has a relatively limited road network of some 148,000 km
of classified highways. Roads are classified according to an administrative
system into national (11,800 km), provincial (34,000 km), and district roads
(101,700 km), mostly reflecting financial responsibilities for construction
and maintenance of the networks. Table 2.1 shows length of roads by major
region and by administrative classification as well as relative distribution



of the road network, population, vehicle fleet and land area between major
regions of thie country in 1982. A functional classification system, intro-
duced by the tew road law of 1980, will replace the adIministrative system for
planning purposes when reclassification is completed in about five years. The
system has three categories of roads: (a) arterial, linking major regional
development centers; (b) collector, linking centers of secondary importance
with each other and/or with the arterial network; and (c) local, linking minor
centers of development with each other and/or with the collector network.
2.02      The classified nietwork has grown considerably over the last
decade: some 50,000 km of unclassified roads have been included in the dis-
trict roads network, an increase of about 100%, and reclassification has
resulted in the length of the national and provincial roads network increasing
by some 13,000 km or about 40%. The coverage of the main highway network
appears generally adequate for the country's present and medium-term road
transport needs, but capacity increases are required on many existiug roads.
About 47% of all national and provincial roads still have pavement widths of
4.5 m or less and over 60% of all bridges are substandard, having carrying
capacity of less than 70% of regular design loads. Some 10% of all bridges
are in critical condition and need immediate replacement. The type and condi-
tion of pavement on the classified network are summarized in Table 2.2, while
Table 2.3 shows the width, type and condition of pavement and  raffic volumes
on the arterial and collector roads in 1982.
B. Traffic and Road Transport
Motor Vehicle Fleet
2.03      ln 1981, registered motor vehicles totalled about 4.6 million
including 3.2 million motorcycles (Table 2.4). The number of vehicles
actually in use is considerably less thar. the number registered; on the basis
of recent inspection records, only about 80% of trucks and 60% of buses
registered were on the road. Only about half of the four-wheeled fleet is
cars and many are used commercially. During 1969-81 Indonesia's registered
motor vehicle fleet grew at over 17% per year, four-wheeled vehicles at about
13% (Lrucks growing fastest at over 16%), and motorcycles at 21%. Motorcycl:ls
are the principal vehicle for private use but many are also in commercial use
as taxis, sometimes converted to tricycle configuration. Traffic surveiys
indicate that motorcycles represent about one half of motorized traffic in
urban areas and about one third in rural areas. The use of minibuses has
increased very rapidly in recent years for short- and medium-distance passen-
ger traffic; in many areas they represent over one-third of motorized traf-
fic. Over 90% of trucks have less than 4 tons capacity and carry average
loads of about 3 tons. However, in Java, trucks are somewhat larger than the
average; trailers are also much more common there than elsewhere in Indonesia,
and a noteworthy increase in truck-trailer combinations has been experienced
during the last years. Virtually all newly registered vehicles are now assem-
bled in Indonesia as GOI regulaticns prohibit the import of fully assembled
vehicles, except for special equipment.  No comprehensive information is
available on non-motorized road vehicles in Indonesia, including animal-drawn
carts, bicyc).es and rickshaws. They are used extensively in the movement of
both people and goods and in many areas are a major component of traffic. As



- 8 -
an indication, some 240,000 bicycies and 40,000 rickshaws were registered in
the Province of Yogyakarta in 1978, compared to 57,000 motorized vehicles.
Traffic
2.04      Road traffic has grown rapidly during the last decrde (Table 2.5),
especially during 1973-78 when the price of fuel was low. The annual growth
rate during 1972-81 was ab,out 14% with an average of over 20% between 1973 and
1978 but a more modest rate of just over 4% from 1978 to 1981. Growth rates
vary considerably among provinces, from over 25% in the oil producing provin-
ces of Aceh and East Kelimantan to less than 10% in some of the others.
Procedures for obtaining traffic information are being refined at present to
increase the accuracy of the data. However, the trends in traffic growth are
confirmed by the growth in fuel consumption and vehicle registration. During
1973-81, gasoline and diesel fuel consumption increased by about 10% and 19%
p.a., respectively. The slower growth in gasoline consumption is explained
mainly by the shift from gasoline-powered vehicles to diesel vehicles,
improved road conditions and the introduction of more fuel-efficient vehi-
cles. Due to recent, significant price increases in fuel (para. 1.09), the
less optimistic economic outlook as well as plans for improved collection of
road user charges and possibly increased taxation (para. 2.43), traffic growth
in the near future is expected to slow down to a moderate range of 4-7% per
annum. The highest traffic flows are on approach roads to the cities of
Jakarta, Surabaya and Bandung in Java, and Medan in North Sumatra, where
volumes range between 15,000 and 40,000 vehicles per day (vpd). On Java,
major national roads typically carry 4,000-10,000 vpd, provincial roads 1,000-
4,000 vpd, and district roads up to 1,000 vpd; on most other islands, typical
volumes would be between 600 and 4,000 vpd. In 1981, Java had the highest
overall average volume for national and provincial roads with 4,200 vpd, fol-
lowed by Sumatra with 970 vpd, and Sulawesi with 770 vpd.
Road Transport Industry and Its Regulations
2.05      Commercial road transport is estimated to account for 75% of all
freight transportation in Indonesia. MOC vehicle inspection data for 1980
covering 158,000 trucks indicate that 50% of these were for hire and 50% were
for own account. Supply ani quality of services are adequate. The Highway
and Road Transport Study (HRTS), carried out under the Fifth Highway Project
by Halcro,w Fox and Associates (UK and Indonesia) and completed in 1982,
indicates that there are about 16,000 trucking firms in Indonesia with about
60,000 vehicles, and that these firms hold about one third of the market
share, with own-account private firms accounting for about 45% and the govern-
ment fleet for about 25%. Government trucking regulations cover restrictions
on operations in urban areas, weight and dimension limitations, licensing for
interprovincial routes on Java, biannual vehicle inspections and tariff ceil-
ings. Given little or no barriers to entry into the industry and the degree
of competition that exists in most areas, actual charges are usually below the
tariff ceilings.
2.06      Buses carry over 90% of passengers transported and some 77% of
passenger-kms travelled. Intercity passenger transport is provided primarily
by private bus companies. State-owned bus companies also provide some inter-



urban services, pioneer (perintis) services in low demand, remote areas where
operations are not commercially viable, as well as most urban bus services.
In 1980, there were 276 companies providing interprovincial service on Java
with some 3,t00 buses, and in Sumatra 99 companies with some 1,250 buses;
since a total of about 88,000 buses were registered in Indonesia in 1980, the
vast majority of bus services are intra-provincial and urban, Government
regulations cover various aspects of bus transportation, including the legal
structure of companies, route licensing and scheduling, vehicle weight and
size limits, biannual vehicle inspectton, passenger seating, fleet size and
tariffs. Tariffs generate adequate revenues for inter-urban bus companies,
while intra-urban bus services still require substantial, but decreasing, sub-
sidies as fares have been gradually increased over the last three years.
2.07      The HRTS (para. 2.05) has made recommendations for improving the
services and efficiency of the road transport industry through changes in gov-
ernment policies regarding vehicle size, axle load limits, route structure,
industry organization and management, and improvements in terminal and transit
facilities for freight and passengers. The recommended policy changes have
generated widespread interest in government, and already regulations on
vehicle size, weight and axle loads have been somewhat modified. A land
transport development plan, addressing route structure and terminal and tran-
sit facilities, will be prepared by consultants. The Bank, is engaged in a
continuing dialogue with GOI on desirable changes in sector policies and has
agreed, through its economic and sector work, to assist GOI to develop a
feasible program for the implementation of such changes.
2.08      Vehicle weights enforcement, the responsibility of MOC's Directorate
General of Land Communications, is unsatisfactory. Enforcement has been com-
plicated by confusing legislation governing the excessively restrictive and
out-of-date legal axle load limits, ranging from 1.5 tons to 7.0 tons (recent-
ly raised to 8.0 tons for some specified routes). The extent of overloading
is substantial; a recent survey at 16 sites on roads having axle load limits
of 3.5, 5.0 and 7.0 tons showed that on average over 30% of heavy vehicles
were overloaded and frequency of overloading was inversely related to the
legal limnits: 10% for 7-ton limit but over 40% for 3.5-ton limit. Axle loads
were, however, moderate with less than 1% of axles exceeding 10 tons, about 5%
exceeding 7 tons, and 18% exceeding 5 tons. There are some 170 fixed weigh-
bridges and 60 mobile weighbridges in the country; about one-third of all
weighbridges are beyond repair. The recorded detection rate of overloading is
exceptionally low with an average of three to five violations per 1,000
weighilLgs. The main reason for such reported low ratas are illegal fees
levied by weigh station personnel. In order to eliminate these practices, GOI
closed all weighbridges in February 1983. Since then, however, 55 weighing
stations have been put back in operation.
2.09      The HRTS includes an analysis of existing vehicle weight legislation
and associated enforcement practices. Many problems and shortcomings have
been identified and recommendations have been formulated for establishing
legal and procedural frameworks for axle load control, but more attention
needs to be given to relatively easily enforceable measures such as control of
import and assembly of heavy vehicles to ensure conformity with adequate
vehicle weight regulations and restructuring of road user taxes to encourage



- 10 -
use of vehicles with better configuration such as multiple axles. As initial
steps in this direction, GOI has already issued two decrees - one increasing
the axle load from 7 tons to 8 tons (for some specified routes) and the other
raising vehicle dimensions. Nevertheless, changing the mix of heavy vehicles
on the roads is a long-term goal which requires concerted efforts from several
departments of GOI - Finance, Home, Trade, Industry, Communications and Public
Works. During negotiations, GOI re-affirmed that it intends in the meantit:e
to enforce vehicle weight regulations as they exist now more rigorously. To
assist in this task, it has initiated a study by the Indonesian Institute of
Science to identify more appropriate equipment (such as electronic, computer-
controlled machines) that would minimize chances for abuse and evasion. At
negotiations, GOI agreed that it would, by December 31, 1984, prepare an
action plan, based on the results of the study, for more effective enforcement
of vehicle weight and axle load regulations.
Road Safety
2.10      Road traffic accidents in Indonesia are a growing socio-economic
problem. The limited statistics available show that some 11,000 fatalities
were reported in 1980 and only limited measures have yet been taken to address
the road safety problem. GOI has recognized the severity of the problem, and
in 1980 MOC commissioned a Highway Safety Program financed under the Fifth
Highway Project. A related study was carried out by the consultants Arge
INDOC (FRG and Indonesia) and identified numerous inadequacies in laws and
regulations regarding vehicles and traffic, and in their enforcement by the
police and other agencies; highway design and condition; and the treatment of
injured persons at accident sites and in emergency care facilities. The
consultants drew up a program for traffic safety improvements which was duly
approved by MOC.
2.11      Measures for improvement are presently being implemented, including
(a) drivers' education and aptitude testing; (b) a traffic safety education
campaign and an accident prevention program; and (c) a vehicle inspection and
testing system and related safety standards. Further work is also underway to
establish an improved accident reporting and evaluation system; improved traf-
fic regulations and their enforcement; upgrading of bus drivers' training and
improved emergency services for injured persons. An Indonesian Highway Safety
Council is being formed with representatives from several public and private
institutions and organizations interested in road safety and in promotion of
safety improvements. During supervision of the project, the Bank will monitor
the situation and maintain a dialogue with GOI. If measures underway and
planned do not produce adequate results the Bank would seek to define how its
resources could be usefully employed in future projects to assist GOI in
improving road safety.
C. Highway Management and Operations
Institutional Framework
2.12      Administration of the highway network is carried out by the Public
Works agencies of the various tiers of government. At the central level, the
Directorate General of Highways (DGH) in the Ministry of Public Works (MPW)



- ]1 -
has primary responsibiLity for the road subsector (Chart 1). Other road agen-
cies are provincial public works departments (OPUP) (Chart 2) and kabupaten
public works departments (DPUK) (Chart 3). The Indonestan Toll Road Corpor-
ation, P.T. Jasa Marga, was established in 1978 to deveLop and operate toll
roads. Jasa Marga is to finance its construction programs and operations with
income from toll revenues. But few toll facilities have yet been developed
and Jasa Marga's income Ls still limited. GOI will, therefore, support Jasa
Marga during its early years through provision of bridging loans and author-
ization to issue bonds in the domestic capital market. DGH is also assisting
Jasa Marga by secondment of experienced highway managers and engineers.
2.13      DGH is responsible for the design and execut4,n of most major road
works in Indonesia. It also coordinates the rehabilitation, maintenance and
minor construction programs which are carried out by the DPUPs with funds from
the Central Government, and operates a national highway equipment pool and
highway research and testing facilities. DGH has at its disposal the largest
team of skilled highway professionals and technicians in Indonesia who direct-
ly and indirectly influence road activities at all administrative levels.
However, there is still considerable lack of highway management capacity,
partic-ularly at the provincial and local levels. Furthermore, institutional
and functional responsibilities for highway development and operations are not
clearly defined resulting in confusion and overlap between all three levels of
government. A road law was issued in December 1980 and defines in broad terms
the framework for the administration of the highway subsector and establishes
overall functional responsibilities, a road classification system and the
basic technical criteria for road development and maintenance. A critical
step in establishing a well defined highway management structure is the issue
of detailed regulations under the road law. These regulations, setting out
the institutional and functional responsibilities at all levels of government,
have already been prepared and approved by most ministries but are awaiting
formal Cabinet approval; a draft of the regulations has been reviewed by Bank
staff and found satisfactory. During negotiations assurances were obtained
from GOI that the regulations under the road law would be issued by October 1,
1984.
2.14      There are 27 DPUPs, one for each of Indonesia's provinces.  On the
basis of a recent government regulation, the various provincial public works
functions will be handled by separate departments within the DPUPs; for roads
it is t'ne Dinas Bina Marga (DBMs). The new departments are being established
in the larger provinces where administrative capabilities are already well
developed, while in most other provinces staff and equipment continue to be
shared for the various functions of the DPUPs until sufficient managerial
skills are developed for effective provincial highway management. The decis-
ion to develop provincial line agencies in the public works sector is a clear
indication of GOI's commitment to reduce central government involvement in
regional management matters. The Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects provided
assistance in developing highway management skills at the provincial level and
the proposed project continues this assistance. In order to temporarily
overcome the shortcomings in highway management at the provincial level, DGH
has established Regional Betterment Offices (RBOs) which design and supervise
highway betterment schemes. As the betterment program increases in volume and
geographical coverage and as the provincial DBMs develop and gain experience,



- 12 -
DGH will transfer adrainistration and execution of the program to che DBMs;
eventually all betterment works will be administered by the DBMs. The most
advanced DBMs arc ready to talke over full responsibilities for all betterment
works in thcir provinces, and the functions and staff of the relevant RB0s
will ba transferred to these DBMs shortly.
2.15      Indonesia has some 260 kabupatens (districts) and 55 kotamadyas
(incorporated municipalities) and most have their own public works depart-
ments, the DPUKs. Under the overall authority of the Directorate General of
Regional Development in MHA, the DPUKs are responsible for the construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance of district roads within their confines and
most have their own staff and equipment, although a few are still dependent on
the DPUPs to handle road works. A significant upgrading of personnel and
equipment is required to improve DPUK road operations; this is being addressed
under the Rural Roads Development Project (Loan 2083-lND) and other projects
in 50 kabupatens, and further assistance is being proposed in 60 additional
kabupatens under upcoming projects.
Staff and Training
2.16      The steadily increasing volume of work imposes strains on DGH as
well as the DPUPs and DPUKs. DGH's permanent staff has increased by some 10%
annually over the last five years while the number of nonpermanent employees
has more than doubled over this period. Total DGH staff now exceed 5,000,
some 2,500 of whom are permanent with about 500 professionals (about 300
engineers). Despite substantial efforts to expand and upgrade staff, the
shortage of qualified personnel remains an important problem for road author-
ities at all levels. Training continues to be a major element in DGH manpower
management through both MPW's overall training activities and specific DGH
programs. MPW began providing regular in-service training for staff during
the mid-1970s. In 1981, MPW's budget for staff training was about US$7.5 mil-
lion with about 11% of staff participating in short courses as well as univer-
sity-based and overseas training.
2.17      MPW's Training Department, PUSDIKLAT, is responsible for coordina-
ting the Ministry's training programs and for providing short courses for
central, provincial and project staff, while three subunits, corresponding to
the Directorates General (DG), arrange training directly related to their sub-
sectors. Training costs are financed mainly through development budgets
allocated to PUSDIKLAT and the DGs, although the DPUPs help finance training
for provincial staff. Short- to medium-term formal training is generally
arranged through the Ministry of Education; overseas training is mostly finan-
ced and arranged through externally assisted projects. Under the Fifth High-
way Project, about 150 DGH professionals and technicians received overseas
training in transportation planning, project management and information sys-
tems. Also under that project, and in liaison with the Institute of Techno-
logy, Bandung (ITB), post-graduate courses in transportation planning and
highway and traffic engineering are being provided for GOI professionals. A
two-year extension of these courses will be financed under the proposed proj-
ect.  The Fifth Highway Project is also providing extensive training for pro-
fessionals and staff of eight DPUPs, mostly in the preparation, tendering and
managing of contracts for betterment works and in the planning, organization



- 13 -
and execution of road maintenance, including equipment management.  This
training will be continued and extended under the proposed project.
2.18      Recent manpower planning studies have concluded that, despite the
importance placed on manpower upgrading by MPW and its DGs, the effectiveness
of training provided is limited because of: (a) poor coordination and ineffi-
ciencies in the planning and management of staff training; (b) inadequate
technical support for the provision of short, job-related courses for staff,
and for related materials development and instructor training; (c) insuffi-
cient facilities to cater for the volume of training required by staff; and
(d) inadequate experier.ce with the provision of training for smaller contrac-
tors. The recent Public Works Manpower Development Project (Loan 2258-IND) is
assisting MPW to correct these deficiencies.
Planning
2.19      In the transport sector the planning process varies among modes.
Highway planning is the most sophisticated and still most centralized. The
main organization for highway planning is DGH's Directorate of Planning which
periodically collects data on traffic, including origin-destination surveys.
These data are complemented by systematic annual road and bridge condition
inventories which cover all national and provincial roads throughout the
country. DGH has a set of basic highway development objectives which are
derived from GOI's overall planning guidelines for each Repelita program.
2.20      Regional development has always been a significant factor in DGH
planning, but there was limited consideration in its analyses of the role of
other transport modes.  In 1979 DGH transferred its long range planning func-
tions to the Directorate General of Housing, Building, Planning and Urban
Development (Cipta Karya), one of the DGs in MPW. Cipta Karya has divided the
country into about 250 planning regions, largely defined around growth centers
and road networks. These regions are subdivided into subregions. Cipta Karya
has also assumed responsibility for planning guidelines for expanded GOI assi-
stance to kabupaten roads, while planning of their development Ls the respon-
sibility of MHA.  Planning of toll roads is done by DGH, while Jasa Marga's
role is limited to design, construction and operation.
2.21      Based on the results of surveys covering regional development
potential, traffic flows and consequent transport needs, a medium-range plan-
ning methodology has been developed which is followed by a priority ranking of
proposed investments, link by link, in the road network. The ranking process
forms the basis of a rolling five-year program.  DGH has introduced detailed
reviews of its rolling five-year program through the RBOs which screen and
design DGH betterment proposals, subject to review by DGH. Similarly, the
DPUPs are increasingly involved in the design of bridge and road rehabilita-
tion works. As part of the effort to develop the capabilities of provincial
DBMs, DGH will increasingly delegate planning of provincial and district roads
to the regional highway authorities. The proposed project would continue and
expand the assistance in developing planning capabilities at the provincial
level started under the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects.



- 14 -
2.22      The planning methodologies applied by DGH's Directorate of Planning
for natLonal and provincial roads are basisally sound.  ReLiable procedures
have been developed for screening aad ranking highway investment proposals.
But the parameters used in road investment analyses are derived from data and
criteria which are applied in developed countries where the circumstances are
somewhat different.  There is a need co revise engineering-econoaic pararaeters
used in DGH's highway planning to b7etter reflect local conditLons. The pro-
posed project would assist in reviewing and refining analytical methodologies
and parameters for highway planning.
Budgeting and Accounting
2.23      Budgeting tor the Indonesian highway system is carried out within a
three-tiered hierarchy made up of the central government, the provincial
governments and the kabupaten gorernments (Chart 4). There Is a considerable
amount of overlap with respect to expenditures by class of road and the type
of work performed.  Most national budget funds are administered at the centraL
level and flow through DGIH into programs included in DGIH's five-year rolling
plans for road development and maintenance. For the development of provinciaL
roads there is a special national budget allocation to the provinces which,
together with untied regional funds, finance the programs executed by DPUPs.
A, similar combination of tied and untied funds, together with a special INPR.ES
Jalan allocation, finances the DPUK kabupaten road programs. Direct central
budget support to Jasa Marga is limited to acquisition of right-of-way for
toll roads. The central government provides about 90% of funds for provincial
and local road programs. For local governments, fragmented funding from up to
four different programs complicates the planning and budgeting process, as it
multiplies the amount of accounting and reporting requirements.
2.24      DGH's accounting procedures are adequate; several functions are
computerized, others are being readied for computer application. Internal
training programs are used on a permanent basis to upgrade and improve the
qualifications of bookkeepers and accountants. Accounts are au.dited both
internally and externally.  Internal auditing of DGH is done by the 14W's
Inspectorate General which reports directly to the Minister. Projects for
audit are initially selected on a random basis, supplemented by follow-up of
projects with problems detected earlier.  Immediate attention is given to pro-
jects flagged by the external auditors.  External auditing is done by the
State Directorate General of Public Finance Control (State Auditors) of the
MOF, and is sound.
Highway Construction
2.25      Responsibility for highway construction lies with DGH'-s Directorate
of Construction for national roads and some major works on provinciaL high-
ways; with DPUPs for provincial roads and some minor works on national roads;
and with DPUKs for kabupaten roaus.  The works are executed under a variety of
arrangements. Most typical for minor construction is the use of smaLl con-
tractors who supply labor and local materials but use equipment and maantufac-
tured materials supplied by the respective road author4ty.  Ten years ago,
Indonesia had a relatively small number of experienced contracting firms cap-
able of executing major road works, and DGH therefore useJ mainly foreign



- 15 -
contractors for such jobs.  Since t'hen local capability has developed so that.
there are itow some 810 "A" class (eligible to bid on contracts over US$300,00%!)
and 1550 t"Js$t class (eligible to bid on contracts between US$150,000-US$300,000)
local conrracting firms in Indonesia, with about one-third directly engaged in
road construction/maintenance activities.  In addition, there are many smnall
contractors providing unskilled labor and transportation of materials for
large foreign and local con ractors as well as for government agencies.
2.26      The DPUPs are responsible for all road works financed under the pro-
vincial budgets and some minor works financed under: the central budget.  Most
road construLction/bettermenit works at the provincial level are carried otit by
local. contractors.  With technical assistance under the project, DGH wouLd
delegate the technical and administrative authority for execution of all
central government financed road betterment projects and bridge replacement
projects on national and provincial roads to the most advanced DPUPs and would
eventually do so for all DPUPs. As the number of qualified personnel needed
for such project execution has generally not been available at the provincial
level, DGH has provided needed technical assistance to the DPUPs.
2.27      The DPUKs are responsible for works on kabupaten roads.  Very little
new construction is undertaken by the kabupatens.  Most of the existing kabu-
paten roads were built prior to 1940 and have been inadequately maintained.
Works currently undertaken are, therefore, rnainly for rehabilitation and
naintenance of the existing system. A major part of the works is handled by
prequxalified local contractors, the prequalification standards are satisfac-
tory. The contractors execute the work in accordance with standards set by
the supervising authority, but supervision is often inadequate.
2.28      GOI has long recognized the need to improve the capabiLities of
local contractors and has arranged to this end short-term lending to small-
and rredium-sized firms at concessional rates, and training of contractors'
personnel.  It continues to encourage foreign contractors to collaborate with
local firms and to provide them with experienced technical and manageriaL
personnel. The long-range development of the Indonesian construction industry
was the subject of a study sponsored by the United Nations Industrial Develop-
nent Organization (UNIDO) in 1976/77. A related action plan was prepared
under the Fifth Highway Project, followed by technical assistance to the
industry by seconding key technical and managerial personnel, to local firms,
The Bank is discussing with GOI further assistance to the industry with the
nain focus on restructuring MPW's Construction Industry Development Bureau and
iaproved availability of credit and equipment to local con -actors.
Hlighway Maintenance
2.29      Maintenance of national and provincial roads is carried out by the
DPUPs, partly with provincial funds and partly with funds supplied by central
government, through the budgets of DGH and the Directorates General of Admini-
stration and Regional Auutonomy in MY.A.  Maintenance is funded under three bud-
getary categories, i.e., maintenance, rehabilitation and support worlks.  In
addition, it is supported through aLlocations by DGH of equiprent, bitumen,
steel, and other materials to the DPUPs.  The budget category "maintenance"
covers only routine work on "stable" roads. While the categories "rehabilita-



- 6 -
tion" and "support works" are essentially slmilar (equivalent to periodic
maintenance in other highway systems -- toat is, operations repeated -every 5-10
years, regraveLing for gravel roads, seals, sorface dressing or overlays for
paved roads), the for,mer applies to "stable" roads while the Latter applies to
"unstable" and critical roads which would require substantial improvenents 'o
become maintainable.  As the "stable" network is still relatively limited
(about 25% of national and provincial roads), the allocations under mainte-
nance and rehabilitation are nodeist while those under support works are sub-
stantial (Table 2. 10)   Because of the advanced state of deterioration oat the
bulk of the network these allocations have rot been sufficient to keep the
roads in adequate condition.
2.30      DPLJP studies have identified many deficiencies in the organization
and execution of road maintenance which couLd be corrected without large addi-
tional budget allocations but would require changes in:  (a) organization and
practices of the financial and road authorities at all levels, and (b) exist-
ing complex restrictions on the use of funds, supply of material, and deploy-
ment of staff.  To address these deficiencies, DPUP improvemrient programs,
including technical assistance and training, provision of equipment and
financing of support works, are currently underway in nine provinces, partly,
financed under the Fifth Highway Project and the Rural Roads Development Pro-
ject, whi^h is also financing preparation of improvement programs in. other
provinces.  rhe proposed project would finance technical assistance to four-
teen DPUPs:  extension of ongoing assistance to the eight UPUPs rfinanced under
the FifiTh Highway Project and assistance to six additional DPLJPs
(para. 3.09).  Special emphasis would be on improving efficency and introduc-
ing more cost-effective maintenance aethods (such as surface dressing) and
techniques.  For the same purposes the proposed project would also finance
equipment for surface dressiizg operations of the above DIUPs as well as labo-
ratory equipment for design and quality contrc.l of hot-mix bituniious
surfacings.
2.31      During Repelita IV DGII plans to improve some 17,500 km (3,50D km per
year) of national and provincial roads with the aim of having about 80X of the
network in a stable and maintainable condition by the end of the decade; dur-
ing this period allocations for maintenance and support works are expected to
increase from adout US$92 million in 1984/85 to about US$126 million in
1989/90 (Table Z.10), representing allocation of, on average, over
US$2,000 per km per year. 'With this allocation, together with assistance
under ongoing projects and the assistance planned under the proposed arid
future projects, regular maintenance of the aational and provincial network is
expected to be fully adequate by the end of the decade.
2.32      The DPUi,s are responsible for maintainirig all kabupaten roads.  In
some kabupatens, where the DPUK lacks the organizational capability or where
there is Po pubLic works organization, the works are handLed by, the DPLJPs.
Since most of the present kabupaten road system has a useful life of less than
three years, the length of roads for maintenence has been very small.  The
Rural Roads Development Project is addressing road maintenance improvenents in
25 kabupatens (and other projects isi another 25 kabupatens) by provision of
equipment, worksliops,  technical assistan-e and extensive training; this assi-
stance is planned to be expanded under future projects to some 60 ac.ditional



- 17 -
kabupatens.  MI-LA has agreed that at least 15% of all kabupaten road funds
would be allocated to maintenance and that this amount will gradually increase
as required to idequately maintain the kabupaten road systeri.
D. Highway Engineering
2.33      DGH1's design work is the responsibility of the Directorate of Plan-
ning.  With about 500 employees, including those of the eight RBOs, this
office has demonstrated its capacity to produce acceptable designs for a broad
range of highway and bridge construction, and to supervise a large volume of
design work by consultants as well.  Design work at the provincial and dis-
trict levels is the responsibility of the UPUPs and DPUKs respectively, while
DGH is responsible for developing the engineering capabilities of the DPUPs
and the DPUKs and, upon request, provides technical assistance to both for
design of roads and bridges in their programs.
2.34      The B3ank- and UNDP are assisting in the development of the local
consulting industry. A first step in that direction was taken several years
ago when DGH requested expatriate consultants to associate with local firms
when hired to carry out highway feasibility studies, detailed engineering and
construction supervision. WhiLe all the RBOs were initially heavily staffed
by expatriate consultants in association with local consultants, the number of
expatriates has decreased in step with increasing reliance on local consul-
tants. But shortages of qualified Indonesian highway engineers still persist
which impedes efforts to further develop highway design capabilities, both in
the highway administration and in the local consulting industry. Assistance
to reduce reliance on foreign consultants is being provided under the Fifth
Highway Project through: (a) technical assistance to several local consulting
firms by posting foreign experts as regular staff; and (b) a special graduate
program for highway professionals which has been established at the Institute
of Technology at Bandung (ITB). The University College oa Lonldon is providing
expert assistance in the ongoing start-up phase of the program, which has
proved to be effective. Under the project, continued assistance would be pro-
vided to ITB in highway planning and design (para. 3.12).
2.35      The geometric and structural design standards used in Indonesia are
traditional, with 5 classes according to traffic volumes (Table 2.6) and road
function. Structural design of pavements is based on the estimated number of
repetitions of equivalent standard axles. Bridge design standards are for
high single-axle loads of 20 tons and a gross vehicle weight of 45 tons. In
the design of betterment works, lower standards are generally used and for
pavements a design life of as low as five years has recently been used by
DGH.  For the project, agreement nas been reached with DGH that betterment
works be designed for a life of ten years which is considered the technically
and economically acceptable mninimum.  To this end, appropriate standards for
pavement design in betterment works have been prepared and agreed (Annex 1).
2.36      Technical specifications for highway construction and materials are
largely based on lNorth American and European standards. Little allowance is
made for the special properties of local construction materials, of which
there is an abundance. Increased utilization of local construction materials
would enable substantial foreign exchange savings. A particular case in point



- 18 -
is asbuton, a natural rock asphalt found on the island of Buton, off Sulawesi,
where it is quarried by the State Asphalt Corporation (PAN). The potential
for using asbuton in road construction and maintenance is considerable. But
asbuton, as presently produced, is only marginally adequate in terms of
engineering criteria as road surfacing material. Yet the use of asbuton for
road surfacings has more than doubled over the last few years; it is used
mostly in the form of non-aggregate cold asbuton sheets (NACAS), but sometimes
in hot rolled sheet (HRS) overlays which has recently been developed. The
project would include technical assistance to improve and expand the use of
asbuton in pavement construction and maintenance. The project would also
provide for special measures to identify and develop local construction
material sources, and to revise highway technical specifications accordingly.
E. HigEway Development Programs and Financing
2.37      Within the context of each five-year national development plan
(Repelita), special provisions are made for highway develo,nent and mainten-
ance. Under Repelita I (1969-74), about 12.6% of the development budget was
utilized for highway development. GOI's explicit policy for the highway
sector during the period of Repelita I emphasized rehabilitation and improve-
ment of existing infrastructure rather than network expansion. The same
strategy guided the highway program under Repelita II (1974-79), and 10% of
the overall development budget was allocated to highways. However, during
Repelita Li the budget for highways increased fourfold, due to extra revenue
accruing to GOI after the 1973 oil price increase. Although budget alloca-
tions for highways under Repelita III (1979-84) substantially increased in
e.bsolute terms over those in Repelita II, the highway sector's share in the
total development budget declined. Under Repelita III the sector development
focus was shifted slightly as GOI put increasing emphasis on rural roads as an
explicit component of its broader rural development strategy. The main
emphasis in the Repelita III highway development program has, however, been on
achieving a gradual and balanced improvement of the existing road network.
All natioril and provincial roads in critical condition were scheduled for
betterment by 1982/83; this has been largely achieved. By the end of
Repelita III stable roads would have increased to an estimated 12,500 km, or
approximately 25% of the national and provincial road network.
2.38      An analysis of highway expenditure trends in comparison with GDP
growth and total annual development buidgets is given in Table 2.7. While the
share of expenditures in the transport sector between 1977 and 1981 has de-
clined from 9% to 6% as a proportion of total budget expenditure, allocations
to highways remained almost constant at 3%. Central and provincial government
budgets for highways are shown in Tables 2.8 and 2.9. Less than 5%, on aver-
age, was spent on new road construction. Between 30% and 50% of the budgets
were allocated to highway betterment and bridge replacement; almost 40% of the
central government highway budgets and around 60% of the provincial highway
budgets were allocated to rehabilitation and maintenance works. The emphasis
and composition of GOI's highway development programs were, and continue to be
sound.
2.39      There have been significant improvements in roadway conditions as a
result of GOI's highway development programs uiider Repelitas 1, II and III.



- [g -
Bftwcon 1974 and 1981, the average Rtoad Corid itiin Index 2/ rose fromn 5.16 to
5.42 on national roads and from 4.26 to 5.()2 on provincial roads.  Investments
Li the highway sector increased froin Rp 209 billion during Repelita I to an
estimaated total of  ) 2,242 biliton during Repelita Ill.  Combined central,
provincial and local governmenLt expenditures increased by 18%. annually over
tlhe last three years and reached an estiMated totaL of Rp 714 billion in 1982,
of which roughly 70% was incurred in developing, maintaining and administering
national cad provincial roads.
2.40      DGH's target for Repelita TV is to bring 80% of the national and
provincial roads to stable condition and to provide them with bituminous pave-
maents, to upgrade all substandard bridges and to replace all bridges which are
in critical condition.  New road construction proposed is negligible.  The
concept is sound and the estimated total cost of such a program is about
US$3 bilLion.  Details of DGH's proposed Repelita IV highway development pr-
ogramn are shown in Table 2.10.  At the same time, substantial funds will be
required to improve the condition of district roads, of 'ihich an extremely
high percentage is seriously damaged and virtually impassable.  In the light
of increasing limitations on local funds, DGH's plan may be overoptimistic. A
plan has been drawn up as part of HiRTS (para. 2.05), which calls for upgrading
the key routes within the national and provincial roads network so that larger
and more efficient trucks than presently allowed can be used. Such trucks
would yield substantial economies of scale and reduce the costs of transport
and of maintaining roads. BAPPENAS supports this strategy, but DGH attaches
high priority to equitable provision of a reliable system of national and pro-
vincial roads throughout the country. The problem is to reconcile the objec-
tives of economic efficiency and regional equity within the framework of limi-
ted resources.  One solution is to upgrade and strengthen the key routes in
the system and to devise low-cost improvements for others. Equally important
is the need to establish efficient maintenance arrangements for all national
and provincial roads. The proposed project would promote such a strategy.
2.41      The possible effect of expected shortages of local funds for highway
development and maintenance could be imitigated through improved participation
of road users in highway finanaing. Out of the estimated outlay of Rp 714
billion for highway development, maintenance and administration in 1982, the
central, provincial and local governments accounted for Rp 350 billion (49%),
Rp 102 billion (14%) and Rp 262 billion (37%), respectively. Of this total,
the central government financed about 90%, provincial governmaents about 6% and
local governments about 4%. The tax revenues collected frota road users
amounted to only Rp 304 billion - about Rp 137 billion by the central govern-
ment, about Rp 166 billion by the provincial governments and Kp 1 billion by
the local governments. On the basis of existing legislation, all three levels
of gove!nment could have collected up to Rp 657 billion; the central govern-
ment collected only 54% of potential road user charges, and the provincial
governments only 42%.
2/   Road Condition Index (RCI).
RCI > 7, Good;   RCI 5-7, Fair;   R.CI 3-5, Damaged;
RCI 1-3, Seriously Damaged.



- 20 -
2.42      Limited cost recovery from road users is aggravated by extremely low
tax contributions by commercial vehicles, such as trucks and buses. Such
vehicles contribute only 2% to the costs of developing and maintaining road
infrastructure while accounting for almost 80% of road traffic. This is con-
trary to common practice in the industrialized countries where taxes are set
for dlfferent categories of vehicles in line with the damage they cause to
road infrastructure. Overall, non-oil road transport taxes in Indonesia are
among the lowest in the developing world.  Except for taxes on sedans and, in
some cases motorcycles, fixed ownership tax rates on road vehicles have not
been increased in the last ten years.  Improved tax collection from road users
and a realigrned tax structure in accord with internationally accepted prin-
ciples would enable GOI to finance highway deveLopment and maintenance costs
entirely with revenues from road user charges. Detailed proposals for improv-
ing domestic resource mobilization for highway development and maintenance
have been formulated under HRTS (para. 2.05). These proposals were reviewed
with senior officials in the Ministries of Finance and Communications during
project appraisal. A consensus was reached that there is a need for restruc-
turing the road user taxati.on systerA and to improve tax collection from such
users to increase the road users' contributions to financing the costs of
highway development and maintenance,
2.43      As part of its continuing efforts to raise more resources for
development, however, the GOI has recently taken several measures to increase
the contributions from road users. One is the increase in fuel prices, in
Lhree steps, with the most recent in January 1984, resulting in both petrol
and diesel prices now being above international prices. The second is a major
reform of the tax law, completed in December 1983 and to be effective from
July 1, 1984, which has brought about substantial. increases in the taxes on
road vehicles and related items. The new tax reform law al6o simpilified the
procedure for application of rates, eliminating or reducing the 6eope for
evasion and "nderpayment.  For example, the new value-added tax is a uniform
10%, compared with numerous rates for sales taxes which have been abolished.
In addition, there is a luxury sales tax of 20% on private passenger cars and
10% on motorcycles. Third, tolls on toll roads and toll bridges have also
been increased by over 100% recently. It is expected that the impact of these
changes will significantly increase road user contributions to Government
revenues both through rate increases and through more efficient collection.
Furthermore, the fleet of Government vehicles for staff use has been elimi-
nated except for some vehicles for field operations. This in itself has
reduced the number of vehicles which were exempt from taxes and fees. As for
fees collected by Provincial Governments, altbough the rates are prescribed by
the Ministry of HoTe Affairs, the responsibilis.; for collection and admini-
stration rests with the Provincial Governments. It was, therefore, agreed
during negotiations that: as a first step, the impact of changes to date
would be assessed by April 1, 1985, as part of GOI's land transport develop-
ment plan study; and the second step would be prompt preparation of a follow-
up action plan to ensure that road user contributions would be sufficient to
cover the coGts of road use, and that relative user conributions would not
result in distortions among transport modes or among different kinds of
vehicles.



- 21 -
P. Previous Bank Financed Highway ProJects
2.44      The Bank Group las made seven loans and credits totalling US$514.2
mtllion for r.iacl development in tndonesla.  The Cirst hlighiway Project ($28
million, Credit 154-INn), 1969) helped restore communicAtions in Indonesia
after a long period of neglect, by providing equipinent and materials for reha-
bilitation of about 3,000 km of roads. hle Second Highway Pro.ject ($34 mil-
lion, Credit 260-IND, 1971) priniarily helped rebu2ild a section oF the Trans
Sumatra Highway in an area which is a major site for .ransmigration develop-
ment tinder the Second Transmigration Project (Loan. 1707-IND). The Third High-
way Project ($14 million, Credit 388-TND, 1973) helped reconstruct a road to a
new irrigation area in Sulawesi.  It also Included an important training com-
ponent to set up a nationwide training system for highway personnel.  The
Second Highway Project was completed in 1977 and the Third in 1978. As de-
tailed in the Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR), SecMRl-4, January 6,
1981, the second project had relatively minor delays and cost overruns, while
the third had significant de'.ays (because of mobilization problems in a very
remote area and unusually wet weather) and increased construction costs; the
objectives of both projects were achieved.
2.45      The Fourth Highway Proiect ($130 million, Loan 1236-IND, 1976)
provided for: (a) the establishment of four regional RBOs; (b) a large and
complex program for the betterment of existing roads; (c) assistance to
strengthen D-H; (d) studies of other institutions concerned with highwayp,,
such as provincial and kabupaten public works agencies, and consultants and
contractors engaged in highway works; and (e) studies of highway laws, road
user charges, and vehicle weights and dimensions regulations.  The project was
successfully completed in June 1983, after 30 months' delay.
2.46      The ongoing Fifth Highway Project (US$123.2 million, Loan 1696-IND,
1979) includes:  (a) components of DGH's bridge replacement program; (b) road
construction and maintenance works executed by eight provincial public works
organizations; (c) measures to study and improve the highway institutions in
some provincial governments; (d) upgrading road maintenance; and (e) technical
assistance to strengthen Indonesian highway consultants and contractors.
There have been start-up delays due to:  (a) underestimation at appraisal of
time needed to process program-type components and numerous consultancy con-
tracts; (b) over-centralization of DGH; (c) shifting,of senior staff within
DCGI; and (d) chiange of development guidelines under Repelita III. Overall,
the project is about 69% complete, and there is a reasonable chance of com-
pleting the project with a total delay of about one year.
2.47      The Jakarta-Cikampek Highway Project (US$85 million, Loan 2049-IND,
1981) provides financing for the construction of a new toll road between
Jakarta and Cikampek, and for upgrading of the existing road between both
cities. Furthermore, the project assists in establishing Jasa Marge.. The
Ruwait Fund for Arab Economic Development is coifinar.ring this project with a
concessionary loan of US$60 million equivalent. The project has suffered
serious start-up delays because of budget constraints and institutional
changes. Most problems have been resolved, and construction contracts have
been let, substantially below appraisal estimates. Project completion is
projected for December 1989, about two years behind schedule.



- 22 -
2.48      The Rural Roads Development Project (US$100 million, Loan 2083-IND,
1982) provides financing for rural roads corstruction and maintenance in
25 kabupatens. This project has suffered early implementation problems
because of institutional weaknesses within MHA and its provincial branches.
Local budget constraints have aggra-.ated the early problems. An action pro-
gram has been drawn up to complete the project by December 1986, as originally
planned.
2.49      The common problems of start-up delays, extending through the pro-
curement and contracting period and the slow rate of disbursements experienced
under previous and ongoing projects, would be addressed under the proposed
project (paras. 3.29 and 3.31).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The project would assist GOI to pursue its highway development stra-
tegy of extensive restoration and upgrading of the national and provincial
road networks. The project would also contribute to improving planning proce-
dures, technical standards and implementation arrangements for highway better-
ment and maintenance.  Special emphasis would be on furthering efficient high-
way management, and on effective arrangements for highway maintenance and
development financing through increased road user charges.
B. Project Scope
3.02      The project would consist of:
(a) Civil Works: Betterment of some 2,000 km of intercity trunk routes,
consisting of major national and provincial roads, including re-
placement of some 2,500 m and repair of some 2,000 m of associated
bridges; upgrading/rehabi.itation of some 1,000 km of key roads,
including replacement of some 1,500 m and repair of some 1,200 m of
associated bridges; and replacement of 4,000 m of defective, high
priority bridges on other important roads;
(b) Equipment: Procurement of equipment for surface dressing oper-
ations; and laboratory equipment for the design and quality control
of hot-mix bituminous surfacing and for quality control of the
natural rock asphalt used in road construction and maintenance; and
(c)  Technical Assistance:  Engagement of local and foreign consultants
to design and supervise major road works; to improve highway
management at the provincial level and develop cost-effective road
construction and maintenance techniques and procedures; to Improve
road investment planning; to further develop training programs for
highway professionals at the Institutue of Technology in Bandung; to
survey and map local road building materials; and to improve the
production and quality of asbuton.



- 23 -
C. Project Description
Betterment of Trunk Roads
3.03      The 2,000 km of betterment works will include some 45-50 sections of
seriousl.y deteriorated two-lane roads with lengths varying between 30 and
75 km, in various parts of the country, selected on the basis of economic cri-
teria (see Chapter IV). Works will be carried out on existing alignment un-
less realignment of short sections (less than one km) is required to eliminate
known safety hazards. Traffic volumes vary between 1,200 and 15,000 vpd.
During construction, minimum inconvenience to traffic will be achieved by
having works carried out in one lane over a relatively short section at a
time, while the two-way traffic alternately uses the other lane. Works will
be designed for a 10 year lifetime in accordance with minimum betterment stan-
dards agreed with GOI during project preparation (Annex 1) and would generally
comprise, as required, improvement of side and cross drainage and repair,
widening and strengthening of pavements and shoulders. Some 20% of pavements
need widening and all pavements will be strengthened by bituminous overlays,
with thicknesses varying between 3 and 15 cm, (7 and 20 cm where a regulating
course is required to correct uneven surface and/or pavement camber) designed
on the basis of existing condition (measured deflection under load) and traf-
fic volume and loadings projected for the next tenl years.
3.04      While pavements are accurately designed and quantities defined, the
simple nature of other elements (improvement of draivage and widening and
strengthening of shoulders) and the cost of surveying make detailed design and
quantification uneconomical and contracts will contain only provisional quan-
tities based on random samples and averages from completed contracts. Design
of these elements will be carried out on site as work progresses with survey-
ing, setting-out and measuring of quantities done con-urrently. As the cost
of these elements is generally only 10-20% of total cost of works, even rela-
tively wide variations in quantities will have little effect on final costs.
The works will be carried out in two phases; the first phase program of
1,235 km has been agreed with GO (Table 3.1 and maps IBRD 17533, 17534 and
17535) and during negotiations GOI agreed that DGH would submit by October 1,
1984 for Bank review and approval its proposal for the latter phase of the
betterment works program.
Upgrading Rehabilitation of Key Roads
3.05      This component comprises upgrading and rehabilitation of key roads,
complement.ng the intercity trunk routes, with emphasis on linking inland
routes and ports and on establishing continuity in the network. Included are
over 60 sections, of lengths from 2 to 40 km, of two lane roads in various
parts of the country where: (a) pavement deterioration is still moderate and
can be corrected by relatively simple measures such as bituminous surface
dressing or a single 3 cm hot rolled sheet (HRS) overlay (excluding regulating
course); or (b) where low cost pavements, such as gravel and single bituminous
surface dressing, need upgrading by surface dressing or an HRS overlay. Traf-
fic volumes vary between 100 and 15,000 vpd. Although designed and executed
as described above for the trunk routes, works will be of much smaller scale



- 24 -
and average cost per km will only be about half of that of the trunk roads.
Selection of works is based on economic criteria; the first year program,
1984/85, of about 534 km has been agreed (Table 3.2 and Maps IBRD 17533, 17534
and 17535) and during negotiations GOI agreed that DGH would submit by
DecerAber 31, 1984 and 1985, for Bank review and approval its proposals for the
fiscal years 1985/86 and 1986/87 respectively for the programs of upgrading
and rehabilitation of key roads.
Bridge Replacement Program
3.06      The bridge program has three main components:
(a) repair of some 2,000 m and replacement of some 2,500 m of bridges on
the roads included in the betterment of intercity trunk routes
(para. 3.03);
(b)  repair of some 1,200 m and replacement of some 1,500 m of bridges on
the roads included in the upgrading of key roads (para. 3.05); and
(c)  replacement of some 4,000 m of bridges on trunk routes not ot'.erwise
included in the betterment program but needed to retain or establish
continuity in the road network.
Bridges included in the program are creating traffic bottlenecks for one or
more of the following reasons: severe load limitations because of low initial
design loads or advanced structural deterioration; width restrictions; and
hazardous hydrological conditions. Bridges will be designed by DGH with some
assistance from foreign and local consultants to agreed standards with 20 Eon-
nes maximum axle loads and 45 tonnes gross vehicle weights. Most of the new
bridges will have prefabricated steel superstructures that have proved very
economical and appropriate under Indonesian circumstances. Selection of
bridges for replacement is based on economic criteria and the first phase
construction program of 39 bridges with total length of 2,150 m and the second
phase of 59 bridges of 2,230 m length, have been agreed (Table 3.3 and maps
IBRD 17533, 17534 and 17535); DGHl has submitted a tentative program of
94 bridges of 4,170 m length from which some 3,600 m will be selected for the
third and last phase and during negotiations GOI agreed that, by October 1,
1984, DGH would submit its firm proposal for the last phase of the bridge
replacement program for Bank review and approval.
Equipment
3.07      The proposed project would provide equipment:  (a) for surface
dressing operations to improve the efficiency of road maintenance in the four-
teen provinces that will be provided with technical assistance under the
project (para. 3.09); and (b) for laboratories to improve the design and
quality control of hot-mix bituminous surfacings and quality control of the
natural rock asphalt, asbuton. The laboratory equipment would be allocated
to: (i) DPMJ's main laboratory in Bandung for pavement and materials
research; (ii) about 25 DPUP laboratories, to complement existing equipment,
and to a new laboratory on the island of Buton (where asbuton is quarried by
the State Asphalt Corporation (PAN)), in order to ensure, under DPMJ's



- 25 -
direction, adequate quality control of asbuton; and (iii) about 20 mobile
laboratories for asphalt mixing centers (AMCs) for the design and continuous
control of production. The list of equipment has been agreed with GOI.
Technical Assistance
3.08      General.  Recruitment and training of professionals by DGH and the
DPUPs lags behind the increasing demand from expanding operations, so a sig-
nificant number of consultants will have to be employed over the near and
medium-terms. The GOI's general policy is to use foreign consultants only
when local consultants do not possess the required capabilities. Although an
effective group of local consultants is emerging, their expertise and number
are yet limited and it is apparent that road authorities will need to continue
to use foreign consultants for some time. The Bank is actively assisting DGH
in reducing its reliance on foreign consultants (para. 2.34).
3.09      DPUPs:  In addition to the DBMs of the eight DPUPs presently being
provided assistance under the Fifth Highway Project and the one under the
Rural Roads Project, DGH plans to strengthen six more DPUPs. A program for
this assistance is being prepared by consultants (ENEX of New Zealand)
financed under the Rural Roads Project, and the proposed project would finance
technical assistance to the DPUPs to develop the capabilities of their DBMs
and, in liaison with the affiliated RBOs, to facilitate the gradual transfer
of technical and administrative responsibilities for major roadworks in DGH's
five-year program from the central to the provincial level. Assistance would
be provided to fourteen DPUPs: extension of ongoing assistance to the eight
DPUPs (North and West Sumatra, Bengkulu, West, Central and East Java, Yogya-
karta and Bali) financed under the Fifth Highway Project and to six additional
DPUPs (Aceh, Jambi, Lampung, South Sumatra and North and South Sulawesi). In
addition to assisting in improving the present activities of the DPUPs,
including the design and supervision of upgrading/rehabilitation works, the
technical assistance would specifically, and in close cooperation with DPMJ,
focus on the introduction of inexpensive surfacing such as single and double
bituminous dressing, improving the use of asbuton, the development of new
uses, improving the operations of the existing asphalt mixing centers (AMCs)
and the establishing of new AMCs.
3.10      For the fourteen DPUPs involved, some 900 man-months in total would
be required for a duration of about two and a half years: 500 men-months of
foreign and 400 man-months of local consultants' services. Terms of reference
for the services were agreed at negotiations.
3.11      DGH Planning Directorate:  DGH is using computer models for planning
investments in road construction, betterment and maintenance - mainly the
Australian GENMERRI model and a set of sub-models developed by consultants
under the Fifth Highway Project. Although these models are helpful, they use
relationships and parameters derived from experience in countries with road
building methods and climatic conditions quite different from Indonesia. DGH
is starting to develop parameters based on local conditions to improve its
planning work. To complete this work, the project will provide technical
assistance to DGH's Planning Directorate in the form of two experts for a
total of about 40 man-months. Terms of reference were agreed at negotiations.



- 26 -
3.12      Post-Graduate Training in Transport Planning and Engineering   Under
the Fifth highway Project and in liaison with the Institute of Technology
Bandung (ITB), a post graduate training course in development planning and
highway engineering was inaugurated in September 1982, using temporary accom-
modation in Bandung, ard with 9 lecturers provided through University College,
London (UCL).  The scope of the course has since been extended with the
addition of two lecturers to cover transport planning and traffic engineer-
ing.  The arrangement under the Fifth Highway Protect extends to August, 1984,
but it is unlikely that the Indonesian counterpart lecturers and administra-
tors will be ready to assume full responsibility for running the course
satisfactorily by then. The project will therefore finance an extension of
the entire course for two years, until August 1986, requiring about 270 roan-
months.
3.13      The course is being run in unsuitable and poorly located premises
borrowed from DGH in Bandung. Assurances were obtained from GOI at negotia-
tions for the provision of permanent accommodatlon not later than August 31,
1985.
3.14      Survey of Road Building Materials.  Like many developing countries,
Indonesia has resources of road making materials which do not conform to nor-
mally accepted standards, but which can be used to advantage in road build-
ing. Such materials are often found only in certain localities and experience
in their use is rarely codified. A start has been made in doing this in the
DPMJ, but work has been ad hoc and very slow.  A comprehensive survey, would
be very valuable in making effective use of locally available materials in
road construction and maintenance.
3.15      The project would provide technical assistance to help DPMJ plan and
program the surveying and testing of road building materials in the whole of
Indonesia and to start the survey in one or two areas of the country where
materials are scirce. To this end, and to supplement DPMl's expert staff, the
project would provide some 120 man-months of specialist local consultants as
well as an experienced expatriate project coordinator on a part time basis for
about 12 man-months during a period of two years. Terms of reference were
agreed at negotiations.
3.16      Quality of Asbuton.  To improve the quality of asbuton (para. 2.36),
the project will provide technical assistance and overseas training to PAN's
technical and managerial staff on quarry and transport operations and account-
ing procedures, as well as for DPMJ's staff for quality control.  The assis-
tance, estimated at some 80 man-months, would extend for about two years.
Terms of reference were agreed at negotiations.
Consulting Services
3.17      Supervision of Construction.  Supervision of betterment works and
bridge replacewent works will be carried out by local consulting firms that
will strengthen their staff by foreign experts as required. Due to the widely
scattered locations the cost of supervising the construction of road and
bridgeworks is somewhat higher than usual for such works; it is estimated that
the 2,000 km of betterment works will be let in some 50 contracts and that the



- 27 -
180-190 bridges to be constructed would be let in 40-50 contracts. It is
estimated that supervision of these 90-100 contracts would require 480 man-
months of foreign and 2,100 man-months of local consultants' services during a
period of about four and a half years. Terms of reference were agreed at
negotiations.
D. Cost Estimates
3.18      The total financing required for the project, including contingency
allowances and the capitalized front end fee on the Bank loan is estimated at
Rp 385.0 billion or US$385.0 million, while estimated37otal project cost is
US$384.4 million (including US$10.0 million for taxes- ). Total cost
includes: (a) physical contingencies of 10% of base cost on all items except
technical assistance for post-graduate training, materials survey and quality
control of asbuton; and (b) price contingencies calculated on proJected local
cost increases of 12% during 1984, 10% during 1985, 1986 and 1987 and 9.0%
during 1988 and on foreign cost increases of 3.0% in 1984, 7.5% during 1985
and 9.0% during following three years. Foreign exchange component is esti-
mated at US$239.4 million or 62% of total cost.  Detailed cost estimates are
given in Table 3.4 and summarized below:
3/   Includes US$9.5 milLion of identifiable taxes on civil works and
US$0.5 million on services of foreign consuLtants.



- 28 -
Y.
Local     Foreign      Total       foreign
-US$ million or Rp billion-        exchange
Civil Works
Betterment                         64.0       96.0       160.0          60
Upgrading                          15.0       28.0        43.0          65
Bridge replacements                14.6       41.4        56.0          74
Subtotal                        93.6       165.4       259.0          64
Equipment                             0.2         3.8        4.0          95
Technical Assistance                  3.2         8.9        12.1         74
Consulting Services                   5.2        10.4       15.6          67
Total Base Costs                102.2       188.5      290.7          65
Contingencies
Physical                           10.1        18.4       28.5          65
Price                              32.7       32.5        65.2          50
Subtotal                        42.8        50.9        93.7          54
Tota.lProject Cost              145.0      239.4       384.4          62
Front-end fee on Bank loan             -          0.6        0.6
Total Financing Required        145.0      240.0       385.0          62
3.19      The base costs are estimated as of early 1984 and have been derived
as follows:
(a)  Civil Works:  The estimates are based on updated bid prices and cost
of force account works from 1982 as well as on mid-1983 bid prices
for a few similar works.  They were further refined by data provided
both by DGH and by consultants employed under the Fifth lighw'ay
Project (N.D. Lea and Associates of Canada ard L. Berger of USA for
roadworks and Kampsax of Denmark for bridgeworRs).  Betterment of
intercity trunk routes is estimated to cost on average US$80, 000 per
km; upgrading/rehabilitation of key roads is estimiated to cost
US$43,000 per km reflecting lower standards and smaller scale ,f
roadworks than for trunk routes as well as exclusion of depreeiation
of equipment provided under previous highway projects; bridge
replacement is estimated to cost on average US$7,000 pcr nu.



- 29 -
(b)  Equipment: Cost of equipment Eor surface dressing operations and Eor
the laboratories is based on recent quotations updated as required
to early 1984 price levels.
(c)  ConsuLtancy Services:  A summary of the required consultancy
services is tabulated below:
Foretgn       Local                Base
consultants  consultants  Total      cost
man-months -- -  US$ million
For DPUPs/DBMi                 500         400       9O0            7.0
For DG's Planning
Directorate                   40           -        40            0.6
For ITB's graduate courses    270            -       270            3.5
For materials survey            12         120       132            0.6
For quality control
of asbuton                    40          40        80            0.4
For supervision of
construction                 480       2,100     Z,580           15.6
Total                   1,342      2,660      4,002           27.7
The average man-month cost is US$2,500 for local consuLtants and US$11,000 for
foreign consultants and includes salaries, fees, international travel, subsis-
tence and other applicable charges.  These costs are in line with recent
experience in Indonesia.  In addition, the contract costs include local trans-
portation costs, staff and operating expenses of local offices, report print-
ing and other minor expenses.
E. Financing
3.20      The proposed Bank loan of US$240.0 million would finance the foreign
exchange component (including US$0.6 million for the capitalized front-end
fee) or about 62% of total project cost (64% of total cost excluding taxces and
duties). The GOI would finance the remaining US$145.0 million equivalent, or
about 38% of the total estimated project cost, through annual budgetary allo-
cations to DGH.
F. Implementation and Procurement
3.21      DGHi will be solely responsible for project execution.  The details
of departmental responsibilities (para 2.12) and of the planned transfer of
some responsibilities to the provincial road authorities will not be firmly
known until the regulations under the road Law have been issued (para. 2.13).
Based on experience gained under previous highway projects, the implementation
capacity of DGH and the DPUPs, all asststed by qualified consultants, is



- 30 -
considered adequate to execL1te t4e project.  Project implementation period is
expected to be about four and a 1half years.
3.22      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Procurement Mslethod                 Total
Project element                     ICB        LCB     Other                cost
 (LVS  Million)- 
Road betterment                     218.8        -         -               218.8
(119.7)       _         _              (119.7)
Bridge substructures                 27.6       7..-                         35.4
(14.3)    (4.2)        _               (18.5)
Bridge materials                     34.7        -         -                34.7
(31.9)       _         _               (31.9)
Road upgrading/rehabUlttation          -       22.3      33.7                56.0
(12.0)   (18.1)              (31.1)
Equtpment                             4.5                                     4.5
(4.2)      -         -                 (4.2)
Technical assistance and
consulting services                  -         -       35.0               35.0
-        -      (35.0)              (35.0)
Totals                          285.6     30.1      68.7               384.4
(170.1)   (16.2)   (53.1)              (239.4)
Note:      Figures include physicaL and price concingencies and those in
parentheses are the respective amounts firanced by the Bank.
Civil works for the betterment of trunk routes, incLuding bridge repair
(US$218.8 million), would be procured under contracts through ICB in
accordance with the brank's Guidelines for Procure-aent.  As mosL betterment
contracts wilL be of the order of US$0.5-3.0 nillion, whenever feasible
contracts will be grouped into US$4-5 million packages in order to encourage
competition. Contractors would be eligible to bid on one or several contracts
within a package as well as on one or more packages, but eligibility for total
amount of contract award is determined through the prequalification
procedures. Tendering would be carrted out in two phases; tendering for the
first phase, amounting to about 55% of the value of all betterment contracts
under the project, started in January 1984 and bids will be submitted in early
April 1984 with implementatio.i extending from about September 1984 to March
1987.  The second phase wouLd be tendered in mid-1984 with implenentation
extending from about March 1985 throagh September 1988.
3.23      About 80% of all bridge substructures (US$27.6 million) will le
procured through ICB and whenever feasible contracts will be grouped into
US$4-5 miltion packages.  Because of isolated locations and small size of



- 31 -
works, substructures of about 45 identified bridges (US$7.8 million) with a
total base price (contract price) of US$6.0 million will be procured through
local competitive bidding; this is satisfactory as foreign contractors are not
expected to show interest in bidding for these works.  As most of the new
bridges have been designed with prefabricated steel superstructures and on
pile foundations of steel pipes and new culverts have been designed of corru-
gated metal pipes, it has been agreed, in order to take advantage of economies
of scale, that DCG procure all such superstructures, piles and culverts
through ICB in one or more lots (US$34.7 million) and provide them as ready-
made components (materials) to the contractors for erection and finaliza-
tion. Tendering of bridge substructures would be carried out in three
phases: tendering for the first phase (about 25% of total contract value)
will start in late March 1984; for the second phase (about 30%) of total con-
tract value), in September 1984; and for the third phase (about 45% of total
contract value), in April 1985. Construction period would extend from about
October 1984 through January 1988.
3.24      Apart from bituminous surface dressing and HRS overlays, civil works
for the upgrading and rehabilitation of key roads and associated bridge
repairing (US$22.3 million) will be carried out under contracts awarded fol-
lowing LCB procedures satisfactory to the Bank; contract size will generally
be of the order of US$0.1 - 0.5 million. Two secondary, but very important,
objE-tives of the-project are:  (a) to introduce (and gain experience in) the
use of inexpensive pavement surfacings such as single and double bituminous
surface dressings and (b) to pursue further the use of asbuton in overlays and
to develop new uses for asbuton. In order to achieve these objectives, as
well as to utiLize fully the capacity of -quipment (some of which has been
provided under previous highway projects) for the production of bituminous
overlays for periodic maintenance, bituminous surface dressing and hotmix
overlays (US$33.7 million) would be carried out by force account by the DPUPs
and the AMCs. Supported by technical assistance under the project, the DPUPs
wil' be responsible for the introduction and development of the bituminous
surface dressings and the AMCs for developing the HRS overlays as the AMCs
have been specifically equipped to use asbuton in the HRS production. While
the AMCs are established basically for maintenance works their present capa-
city would be sufficient to carry out the upgrading works during the next 2-
3 years though on a declining basis as they become gradually more involved in
maintenance.  Implementation of this component would start in April 1984 and
extend through about May 1987.
3.25      An average of about 5,000 workers are expected to be directly
employed on road and bridgeworks over a period of some four years. In carry-
ing out the works, contractors are free to choose their own methods, equipment
and labor, subject to works complying with specifications.
3.26      Bidding documents for civil works contracts estimated to cost
US$2.0 million equivalent or more (some 60% of all works financed under the
project) would be subject to the Bank's prior review and approval; other docu-
ments would be available for review, together with bid evaluation, after award
of contracts.



- 32 -
3.27      Equipment, including spare parts (US$4.5 million), wilL be procured
following ICB procedures and aLl documents will be subject to Balnlk's review
and approval prior to invitation for tender. Delivery of equipmentt is expect-
ed to take place in the first half of 1985.
3.28      Consultants would be appointed in accordance with Bank guidelines
and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and GOI's assurance to
this effect was obtained at negotiations.
3.29      Implementation delays have been common in previ,ous projects, partly
because monitoring of prcgress and tlagging of problems have been inadequate.
In order to improve implementation DGH has reorganized, and is in the process
of adequately staffing, its project liaison unit which is responsible for
monitoring, evaluation and reporting.
3.30      A detailed implementation schedule (Annex 2) was agreed with GOt at
negotiations.
G.  Disbursements
3.31      The loan funds would be disbursed on the following basis:
(a)  Civil Works:  63% ut expenditures on road and bridge works;
(b)  Equipment and Materials:  100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported items; or 100% of local expenditures (ex factory), exclud-
ing identifiable duties and taxes, of locaIlt manufactured items; or
65% of expenditures of locally procured items;
(c) Technical Assistance and Consulting services: 100% of expenditures.
Expenditures for civil works to be constructed under force account (improve-
ments and rehabilitation of key roads) would be reimbursed on the basis of
statements of expenditure (SOE). Supporting documents will be retained by DGH
for inspection by Bank staff during project supervision missLons. The sche-
dule of estimated disbursements is presented in Taole 3.5. It is expected
that implementation will improve and enable completion of loan disbursement in
about five years because: (i) tender documents have been standardized and
tendering procedures have been streamlined to facilitate early tendering and
signing of contracts (bids for first phase betterment works will be submitted
in early April 1984 and for bridge replacements, equipment and materials in
mid- to late-May 1984); (ii) contracts are smaller than in previous projects
(maximum construction period of 2.5 years); (iii) the practice of withholding
retention money during the one-year maintenance period is expected to be
replaced with a bond or guarantee of equal value; and (iv) DGH's project liai-
son unit is being strengthened (para. 3.29).  This assessment is supported by
recent experience under the Fifth Highway Project which, without the benefit
of early procurement and preparatory activities, is now expected to be
completed in about six years.



- 33 -
H. Accounts, Auditing and Reporting
3.32      DGH will keep separate accounts for each project component.  At
negotiations assurances were obtained that following the regular internal MPW
audit of the project accounts, including documentation for SOEs, the accounts
will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the BaTik and that their
detailed audit report be submitted to the Bank within nine months after the
end of each fiscal year. DGH would prepare a detailed project completion
report and submit it to the Bank not later than six months after the closing
date.
I. Status of Preparation
3.33      Feasibility studies have been carried out by DGH's Planning Direc-
torate with the assistance of the RBO consultants who have also carried out
engineering of the road links during the last few years while bridges have
been designed by DGH. DGH is employing the consultants N.D. Lea & Associates
(Canada) to review and revise the engineering on the basis of the agreed
betterment design standards (Annex l) and Kampsax (Denmark) is revising bridge
design. These reviews were completed for the first phase road links and
bridges in mid December 1983. Similar reviews for the second phase would be
completed by May 1984.  Contract documents have been standardized and agreed
and tendering of first phase works started in earLy January 1984.
3.34      DGH has completed its preliminary selection of roads for a five-year
program for the upgrading/rehabilitation of key roads and a first year program
of 534 km has been agreed.
J. Environmental Aspects
3.35      The project is not expected to have any adverse environmental
effects.  Works are mostly improvements of roads and bridges on existing
alignment with minimal requirements for additional land; works would include
improved side and cross drainage, widening and strengthening of shoulders and
pavements, overlays on old pavements and the provision of bituminous surfa-
cings on gravel roads, all of which would improve conditions along the road
through reducing dust and noise and the possibility of flooding.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01      The project would assist DGH in pursuing its basic highway develop-
ment strategy for Repelita IV, i.e. to restore and upgrade national and pro-
vincial roads, such that 80% of the network is in stable condition by the end
of the plan period. In parallel, arrangements would be instituted for improv-
ed maintenance of the restored network. Given that about 75% of the national
and provincial roads network is still in unstable condition, rendering road
transport unreliable and expensive, the project would yield substantial
returns. Furthermore, the project would ease GOI's budgetary problems, in



- 34 -
that it would initiate measures to increase road user participation for hLgh-
way development and maintenance financing, which will lead to reduced govern-
ment budget requirements. At the same time, the project would contribute to
further improvements in highway management at all government levels. The
three principal components of the project that are amenable to conventional
economic evaluatLon as reflected in rates of return are: (a) the betterment
program for intercity trunk roads; (b) upgrading and rehabilitation of dete-
riorated key roads; and (c) the bridge replacement program.
B. Betterment Program
4.02      The Indonesian procedures for selecting inter-city trunk routes for
improvement or betterment have evolved over the past several years, and now
consist of a logical series of steps initiated by the Screening Feasibility
Office (SFO) of the Rural Road Engineering subdirectorate in Jakarta, with
engineering support from the RB3s. Road links are passed through three suc-
cessive evaluations, with links meeting a minimum economic test (a 15% return)
approved for the next stage of engineering work, with the third and final
evaluation based on final engineering desigrn and resultant cost estimates.
4.03      The series of steps are as follows:
(a)  the RBOs propose an initial project list, based on their field
observations, road inventory information, and traffic counts. This
is passed through an initial SF0/RBO screening based on standardized
charts relating expected economic returns to traffic counts and to
average betterment costs in different provinces and for different
types of road works;
(b)  for those showing a 15% or higher return, the RBOs prepare a
Sufficiency Engineering Proposal (SZP) showing traffic counts and
forecasts as well as cost estimates based on preliminary engineer-
ing. SF0 then makes a second evaluation using its Generalized Model
for the Evaluation of Rural Road Improvements (Genmerri) developed
in 1968 in Australia and introduced in Indonesian road planning
under the Bank-financed Fourth Highway Project. All proposals not
meeting the cutoff rate of return are deferred;
(c)  RBOs then undertake detailed engineering for the approved links and
the evaluation is repeated with the cost estimates based on detailed
engineering. Though benefit streams are not usually revised, sensi-
tivity tests are made for significant uncertainty ranges; and
(d)  with the advice of Cipta Karya, the Planning Directorate of DGH
reviews and revises the priority rankings established by the SF0
model to reflect regional economic and social objectives. The
projected availability of funds is also taken into consideration at
this stage.
4.04      The Genmerri model is based mainly on benefits from road improve-
ments arising from: (a) road user savings (arising in the form of vehicle
operating cost and travel time savings) from reduced congestion; and (b) road



- 35 -
user and to some extent, road maintenance cost savings from improved road sur-
face (Tables 4.1 - 4.3).  The model, however, tends to overstate benefits from
reduced congestion and to understate benefits from improved road surface.  The
net result is that the screening process tends to be biased in favor of roads
wittl high volumes of traffic.  In oLlTer words, the program determined through
this screening process would tend to give priority to the busier roads even
though they may be in fair condition, with only the subjective regional
development screen as a safety net to bring into the program important roads
in poor condition (with relatively low traffic volumes) (e.g., port connec-
tions or inter-regional links).
4.05       During appraisal Bank and SF0 staff, therefore, agreed to correct
the above bias through modifying inputs to the wodel for screening and, based
thereon, selecting the initial batch of links for the first phase program of
betterment works to be financed under this project; this was done by adding to
the SFO-estimated vehicle operating c-st savings, additional savings attribu-
table to surface improvements over r- above those assumed in the Genmerri
model. A proposal for technical assistance to revise and update the evalua-
tion model is included in the project. The technical ascistance experts will
also develop a system for regular updating of the model.
C. Upgrading/Rehabilitation Program
4.06       Screening for works to be undertaker. in the upgrading program -
essentially rehabilitation or overlays - is based on f4yst year benefit
analysis to ensure a minimum first-year return of 15%.'  Priorities are
established according to a physical index relating traffic and expected sur-
face improvement (proxy for benefits) to measures of width and thickness of
the overlay (proxy for costs). The selection process is also designed to
ensure efficient equipment utilization and a (rolling) three-year program for
each province. As a final check, the physical indices are translated into
simplified first year benefit measures using a standardized vehicle
cost/road/surface relationship and average cost estimates per km of road.
Considering the large number of small sections ..nvolved, the procedure is
acceptable.
D. Bridge Replacement Program
4.07      To facilitate setting priorities for replacement oI bridges in cri-
tical condition, a standardized economic test of timiTag has been established
based on the number of medium/heavy truck crossings, subject to a minimum of
one such crossing per meter of bridge length per day. It is estimated that
this volume of traffic usually produces a minimum 15% first year return. The
economic rationale for bridge replacement is based on enabling cobimercial
vehicles, mainly trucks, to carry a full load wi.th lower costs per ton-km
instead of a partial load on unsafe or weak bridges. The new bridges are
designed to accept unrestricted crossing by trucks of up to 45 tons gross
4/   Even with modest traffic growth, this will produce a minimum economic
return of 10% over a 10-year design life.



- 36 -
weight. For this program also the first year return is an appropriate screen-
ing test since, with a very large number of bridges negoing replacement, the
principal question relates to the timing of the works.-
E. Economic Returns and Risks
4.08      Except for the minor reservations noted on the inter-city roads
evaluation model, the selection procedures for all components are sensible and
acceptable. For the first year program, economic returns estimated by DGHi are
high, as may be seen below:
Range from lowest to highest
Economic return         First year return
_ _    ( %)  (- -)                    _-_-_-
Road Betterment -
Inter-city links                23-100                   21-42
Upgrading and Rehabili-
tation                          33 (minimum)             35-100+
Bridge Replacement                15 (minimum)             15% minimum (based on
a range of 3-300 in
heavy truck crossings
per day per meter of
bridge length)
The expected returns remain above acceptable threshold levels over wide ranges
of variations in costs and benefits (Table 4.4), The selection procedures,
therefore, assure low risks of misinvestment.
4.09      Sensitivity tests made on a selection of proposed road betterment
links have, for example, allowed simultaneous variations in cost and benefit
streams to reflect the following uncertainties:
(a) Constructior. costs: The test analysis assumed that construction
costs would on average be 25% above the estimate, but that they may
also vary up to 50%;
(b) Maintenance costst The tests assume that maintenance costs will
vary about 20% above RBO estimates;
5/   The average life of the new bridges is 30 years.



- 37 -
(c)  Time savings:  SFO currenty values time saved through reduced road
congestion at the average Indonesian wage rate. Although it is not
known whether this over-estimates or under-estimates the average
income of road users, behavioral studies in several countries have
shown that road users are willing to pay rates of only 25-50% of
wages to save travel time. It is possible, therefore, that the SFO
aDproach overstates the value of time savings, and the test assumes
variations in this benefit down to about 30% of the SFO estimates;
(d)  Vehicle Operating Cost Savings:  These are based on an annual survey
of vehicle operating costs based on border prices, with a 25% vari-
ation from the SFO estimates; and
(e)  Surface improvement:  The test downplays the importance of the
roughness adjustment factor, by assuming values as low as 20% of
base values used.
In all tests, adjustments were also made to SFO estimates to reflect estimated
post-devaluation relative price changes.
4.10      If one allows all the variations to occur simultaneously according
to the probability distribution found in a test of 300 samples, the following
results emerge:
(i)  The test results generally mirror the pattern of the Genmerri
estimates, with the ranking of investments being similar;
(ii) The results change very little in terms of priority ranking;
(iii)  the probability that under the worst combination of circumstances
economic returns will fall below 15% is low: in 14 links tested it
is only 7%; and
(iv)  first year returns reflecting the appropriate timing of works are in
all cases adequate, i.e. at least 15%.
Some sample results of the test for the betterment program are shown in
Table 4.4. Data files and detailed results are in the project file.
4.11      The favorable results for the betterment program in particular
indicate that SFO could simplify the screening process by proceeding straight
to final engineering for any link which at the initial evaluation produces a
return that -emains well above 15% for large cost variations (say +50%).  This
would save considerable work in the RBOs in preparing SEPs.
4.12      Overall, the programs of highway betterment, bridge replacement and
upgrading/rehabilitation works to be financed under this project are expected
to show returns of above 30%.
4.13      A principal risk in most construction projects is the adverse effect
of delays in execution on economic viability. In the proposed project, such
risks are considered minimal:  the bidding process for the first phase program
is well under way and advance preparations for the second phase program are



- 38 -
also well in hand.  In any case, for betterment works of the kind constituting
the core of the project, one or two years' delay of works will enhance the
economic return, while an extension of the period of execution would only
marginally affect the economic return. Furthermore, the estimated returns in
this case are sufficiently attractive that there is no risk of any of the
components turning out to be economically unjustified due to any delays that
could be reasonably foreseen.
4.14      Road betterment works to be financed under the project will be con-
structed to engineering standards consistent with a ten year design life which
is considered the technically and economically acceptable minimum. However,
during the last few years DGH has in several cases designed and constructed
pavements for lives as short as five years resulting in premature deteriora-
tion and loss of investment. There is some risk in that, if restrictions on
budget allocations become severe, DGH may be tempted to maintain physical
targets for the length of road works to be completed and lower engineering
standards. In order to protect the investments under the project, assurances
were obtained from GOI during negotiations that design standards agreed and
used for betterment works of the first-phase program (Annex 1) will be adhered
to for works of later phases.
F. Beneficiaries
4.15      By lowering transport costs, improvements to Indonesia's main inter-
city highway networLk will directly benefit the modern commercial and indus-
trial sectors of the economy, through reducing costs for delivery of inputs,
inland distribution of imports, collection and movement of products for export
and for the domestic market. They will also improve labor mobility and pro-
.mote passenger movements. Eventually and indirectly the reduction in trans-
Port costs will benefit producers and consumers alike by favorable trends in
the prices the former can get for their products and the latter have to pay
for their purchases. Roadside service activities will grow to serve the
additional traffic induced by lower transport costs, providing additional
employment and income.
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with GOI:
(a)  on preparing by December 31, 1984 an action plan for more effective
enforcement of vehicle weight and axle load regulations
(para. 2.09);
(b) (l) on an assessment by GOI of the impact of recent changes in tax
law and related matters as they affect road user charges, to be
completed by April 1, 1985; and (ii) based on such assessment, on
the preparation of a follow-up action plan to ensure that road user
contributions are both adequate on the whole and appropriate as
between different kinds of vehicles (para. 2.43);



- 39 -
(c)  that DGH will submit:  (i) by October 1, 1984 for Bank review and
approval its proposal for the latter phase of the betterment works
program (para. 3.04); (ii) by December 31, 1984 and 1985, for Bank
review and approval its proposals for the fiscal years 1985/86 and
1986/87 respectively for the p:ograms of upgrading and rehabilita-
tion of key roads (para. 3.05); and (iii) by October 1, 1984, for
Bank review and approval its firm proposal for the last phase of the
bridge replacement program (para. 3.06); and
(d)  on an implementation schedule for the project (para. 3.30).
5.02      During negotiations assurances were obtained from GOI:
(a)  that the regulations under the road law will be issued by October 1,
1984 (para. 2.13);
(b)  that adequate permanent accommodation for the graduate courses in
transport planning and engineering be provided by August 31, 1985
(para. 3.13);
(c)  that consultants will be employed on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Bank (para. 3.28);
(d)  that a detailed audit report on project accounts, including SOEs,
will be submitted to the Bank annually within nine months after the
end of each fiscal year (para. 3.32); and
(e)  that the design standards agreed and used for betterment works of
the first phase program will be adhered to for works of later phases
(paras. 3.03 and 4.14).
5.03      On the basis of the above agreements, the project is suitable for a
loan of US$240.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Indonesia for 20 years,
including a grace period of five years, at the standard variable rate.



INDONESIA
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
Standards for Bettermenl Works
MlnImum
Traffic           Width of         Povement Condiflon
Present  AADT    Pavement/Shoukder    Visual    Deflection                      Typical Oterav SgectcaIon'
Mooerate    3 cm Hot Polled Sheet (HPS)                             3
nCi = 6    15 mm        ner jssIry to reUCe roUghness            I             3 -
1200-3000
10 Year Design         4.5/05                                3 cmHRS H P
1x1l0P Eoutralent                                                                                      o,- 
Stondard Axles                        Bad        High         5 cm Asphalt Treated Base (ATB)
On very weak xovements additional base d               4
crushed rock for equivalent as required         i
3 cm HR or 5 cm Asphaltic Concrete (AC)    io*.    o   o 3
Fair      Moderate
RCI - 6    1.5 mm      5 cm ATB where needed to reduce roughness               5
10 Year Design         . 0/1.0                               3
3X106 Eqiaet3 cm HRS or 5 cm AC                                                                                  3       
30 Equivalenr                                                                                       0      ~      1
Stondard Axles                        3ad        High        S cm ATB                                    .
PCI = 4    3 0 mm      8 cm or more as reouired. of crushed stone ot           4 to 8 -
equlvalant
.              ~~~~~~~4 cmAC or 4cm HR8 oSD<:                          4
Fair      Moderate      c
RCI 6    15mm          5 cm ATB where needed to reduce roughness               5 .
8000-20000
10 Year Design:        7.011_.
8x106 Equivalent
Standard Axles                                                4 cm AC or 4 crn- HRS                                  4
. r2-d  H30m@ h Im Scm ATB                                                     5
8 cm or mare as required, ot crushed stone or          4 to 8-
eciuiva'ont
Notre
Desgn ot Asphaltic Concrete n accordance with ACODI methodology (see The Design of Asphaltic Concrete Oveioys on Penetration Mocadom
Pavements in Indonesia. J.B. Cox. 3rd REAAA Conference. 1081): design otf lot Polled Sheet in occordonce with 14PODI methodology                            Z
(sea Optimising Pavement Overlay Desions in Indoneso. C.P. Come. 4th REAM Conlerence. 1983)
World Bank-25763-



ANNEK 2
- 41 -                  Page I of 3
INIDONESIA.
HIGHWAY BETTERMEWT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Project Item                                                 Implementation
Start       Complete
I. Civil Works
A.  Betterment Works
1.  Preparation, review and approval of tender
documents - Phase 1                              11/01/82    12/15/83
Phase II                            05/15/83    06115/84
2.  Agreement with Bank on Phase I works             06/01/83    12120/83
?hase II works          12/15/83    06/30/84
3.  Prequalification of contractors                  08/31/83    12/20/83
4.  Tendering of Phase 1                             01/06/84    04/05/84
5.  Recelve and open bids for Phase I, bid
evaluation, MPW, SEKNEG and Bank approval
and award of contracts                           04/05/84    08/20/84
6.  Construction of Phase I                          09/20/84    03/20/87
7.  Tendering of Phase II                            07/02/84    1C/04/84
8.  Receive and open bids for Phase II, bid
evaluation, MPW, SEKNEG and 3ank approval
and award of contracts                           10/04/84    02/18/85
9.  Construction of Phase II                         03/18/85    09/30/88
B.  Upgrading/Rehabilitation Works
1.  Agreement with Bank on 1984/85 program           09/16/83    12/20/83
2.  Implementation of 1984/85 program by
force account and contracts                      04/D1/84    05/31/85
3.  Agreement with Bank on 1985/86 program           12/31/84    02128/85
4.  Implementation of 1985/86 program by
force account and contracts                      04/01/85    05/31/86
5.  Agreement with Bank otl 19B6/87 program          12/31/85    02/28/86
6.  Implementation of 1986/87 program by
force account and contracts                      04/01/86    05/31/87
C.  Bridge Replacement Program
1.  Agreement with Bank on works in Phase I & II  06/10/83    12/20/83
Phase III works  12/15/83    09/30/84
2. Preparation, review and approval of tender
documents                                        06/10/83    03/15/84
3.  Tendering of Phase 1                             03/26/84    05/26/84



ANNEX 2
- 42 -                      Page 2 oE 3
4,  Receive and open bids, bid evaluation, MPW,
SEKINEG and Bank approval and award of
contract                                         05/26/84    09/30/84
5.  Construction o'. Phase I                         10/31(84    03/31/B7
6.  Tendering of Phase II                            09/10184    11/10/84
7,  Receive and open bids, bid evaluation, MPW
SEKNEG and Bank approval and award of
contracts                                        11/1.1/84    03/31/85
8.  Construction of Phase II                         04/30/85    10/31/87
9.  Tendering of Phase III                           04/15/85    06/15/85
10. Receive and open bids, bid evaluation, M4PW,
SEK'NEG and Bank approval and award of
contracts                                        06/16/85   1/31/85
11.  Construction of Phase III                        11/30/85    05/31/88
II. Procurement of Equipment for Surface Dressing and Quality
Control of Hot-Mix Bituminous Surfacing and 'Natural Rock
Asphalt (Asbuton)
1.  Prepare list of equipment and bid documents,
obtain Bank approval and advertise               02/15/84    03/31/84
2.  Tendering, receive and evaluate bids, MPW,
SEKNEG and Bank approval and awaTd of
contracts                                        03/31/84    09/30/84
3.  Delivery                                         04/01/85    08/01/85
III. Consulting Services
A. Supervision of I.A and C_/
1.  TOR and shortlist agreed with Bank               12/01/83    01/15/84
2.  Invitation, submission and evaluation of
proposals, MPW and Bank approval and
negotiations                                     01/31/84    06/21/84
3.  MPW and Bank approval, contract awards
and Bappenas approval                            06/21/84    08/18/84
4.  Supervision                                      08/18/84    09/30/88
B.  Technical Assistance for DPUPs/DBMS.L/
1.  TOR and shortlist agreed with Bank               12/01/83    02115/84
2. Invitation, submission and evaluation of
proposals, MPW and Bank approval and
negotiations                                     03/16/R4    07/21/84
1/  If, because of GOI's cumbersome review and approval procedures, contracts
cannot be signed in time for expected start of works (August 1984 for
betterment and bridge replacement programs, April 1984 for upgrading and
rehabilitation program), DGH intends to extend, as required, existing
contracts financed under the Fifth Highway Project.



ANNEX 2
- 43 -                    Page 3 of 3
3.  nPW and Bank approval, contract awards
and Bappenas approval                            07/21/84    09/18/84
4.  Implementation                                    09/30/84    09/30/87
C.  Technical Assistance for DCH's Planning Directorate
1.  TOR and shortlist agreed with Bank                12/01/83    03/20/84
2.  Invitation, submission and evaluation of
proposals, MPW and Bank approval and
negotiations                                     03/31/84    06/30/84
3. MPW and Bank approval, contract awards
and Bappenas approval                            06/30/84    09/30/84
4.  Implementation                                    10/31/84    10/31/86
D.  Technical Assistance for Survey of Road
Building Materials
1.  TOR and shortlist agreed with Bank                12/01/83    04/30/84
2. Invitation, submission and evaluation of
proposals, MPW and Bank approval and
negotiations                                     05/01/84    08/31/84
3.  MPW and Bank approval, contract awards
and Bappenas approval                            09/01/84    11/30/84
4.  Implementatlon                                    01/01/85    12131/86
E.  Technical Assistance for Quality Control
of Asbuton (DPMJ and PAV)
1.  TOR and shortlist agreed with Bank                01/15/84    03/20/84
2.  Invitation, submission and evaluation of
proposals, MPW and Bank approval and
negotiations                                     04/01/84    06/30/84
3.  MPW and Bank approval, contract awards
and Bappenas approval                            07/01/84    08/31/84
4.  Implementation                                    10/01/84    09/30/86
March 1984



-44-
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
INDOt4ESTA
MIHGiWAY BETTERMENT PROJECr
Selected Documents and Data AvailabLe in the ProjectFile
A.  Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
1.  Poernomosidi Hadjisarosa, Road Network Development Related to Regional
Development, Ministry of Public Works, Indonesia, June 1981.
2.  Directorate of Regional and City Planning, A Perspective of Transport
and Land Use Policies for Indonesia, Ministry of Public Works, January
24, 1983.
3.  Republic of Indonesia, Serial: Area Development Mechanism, Jakarta,
undated.
4. Ministry of Public Works, Charts of Traffic Coutits by Province,
Jakarta, April 1983 (in Bahasa).
5.  Ministry of Public Works, Inventory of Road Condition3 and Rtoad
Surfaces, Jakarta, March 1982 (in Bahasa).
6.  Organization Chart, Provincial Department of Public Wdrks in Lampung
(unofficial).
7. Road Classification Criteria, Indonesia, 1982/83.
8.  Director General of Iiighways, Review of che Highway Sector, May 1983.
9.  John B. Cox, An Overview of the Indonesian Highway Systen, Jakarta,
1983.
10. Director General of Highways, Development Expenditures under
Repelita I-III, May 1983.
11. a. Ministry of Public Works, APBN Programs, RepeLita IV, 80% stable
network target and 100% stable network target, September 1983
(revised, in Bahasa).
b. Ministry of Public Works,Targets for Repelita IV, 1984/8-1988/89,
Jakarta, May 1983 (in Bahasa).



ANNEX 3
45 -                         Page 2 of 3
B. Selected Documents Reports and Studies Related to the Project
I.  a,  Directorate General of Highways, Road Betterment, Economic
Evaluation of Design for Highway VI Road Project,
December 15, 1983.
b. Directorate General of Highways, Road Betterment, Phase I Urban
Sections, November 1983.
2.  Directorate General of Highways, Bridge Replacement Program Highway
VI, Packages I, II and III, December 1983.
3. ND Lea and Associates Ltd,, Proposals for IBRD supported AM4C
Betterment Program in Highway Six Loan; November 1983.
4. Mr. R.S. Millard, Properties and Uses of Natural Rock Asphalt -
Asbuton.
5. Mr. R. S. Millard, Road Building Strategy.
6.  Directorate General of Highways, Special Report on Vehicle Operating
Cost Survey, Screening Feasibility Office, March 1983 (in Bahasa).
7. Directorate General of Highways, Modified Vehicle Cost Model (MODVCM)
Coding Instructions, Screening Feasibility office, December 1982.
8. ND Lea and Associates, Ltd., et. al., Design Report Java Roads
Improvement Project, Volume II, AppendixB, "A Summary and Review of
the Genmerri Model", Republic of Intconesia, August 1980.
9.  Halcrow Fox and Associates, et. al., Highway and Road Transport
Consultancy Project, Final Reports:
Volume IA and B: Vehicle Weights and Dimensions Implementation Study,
Volume 2:         Road User Charges Implementation Study,
Volume 3:         Vehicle Operating Cost Model Study,
Volume 4:         Road Transport Industry Study, and
Volume 5:         Road and Traffic Legislation Study.
10. C.P. Corne, ME, MIE (Australian), Optimizing Pavement Overlay Designs
in Indonesia, August 1983.
11. Mr. D.B, Willmott, BE, DipTP, MIZIE, MIHE, Indonesia's Highway
Betterment Program; the Highway Engineer, December 1982.
12. Directorate General of Highways, Law No. 13/1980 on Roads (in Bahasa
and English).



- 46 -                    ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
13. Directorate General of Highways, NACAS, Review of Current Use
Properties and Performance and Recommendations for Improvement and
Development N.D. Lea & Associates Louis Berger International,
July 1983.
14. Project Brief, Issues Paper, and Decision Memo of 05/10/83, 07/07/83
and 07/25/83 respectively.
15. General Procurement Notice; Development Forum, August 21, 1983.
16. Regulations to the Road Law (draft).
C.  Selected Working Papers
1. Programming, Budgeting and Auditing in the Transport Sector.
2. INDONESIA: Highway Proposals for IGGI, June 10, 1983.
3. INDONESIA: Selection and Screening Processes, Road and Bridge
Improvements, May 26, 1983.
4. Rough Guess at the Effect of Including Road Roughness in the Selection
Criterion for Road for RoadLinks for Betterment, May 30, 1983.
5. INDONESIA, Road Betterment Screening, Interim Adjustment for Road
Roughness Effects, June 5, 1983.
6. Computer Files and Runs for Risk Analysis, Road Betterment Test Links,
September 1983.
7. PAN, Structure and Operations, October 1983.
8. DGH, TOR for Management Assistance Consultancy Services for DBMs.
9.  DGH, TOR for Technical Assistance to Directorate of Planning - Biptan.
10. DGH, TOR for UCL's Assistance.
11. DGH, TOR for Inventory of Road Construction Materials in Indonesia.
12. DGH, TOR for Technical Assistance Consultancy Services to PAN.
13. DGH, TOR for Supervision of Road Works.
14. DGH, TOR for Supervision of Bridge Works.
15. Procurement Unit (PAS/CPS) comments (07/15/83) on Issues Paper and Mr.
Stern's comments (08/01/83) on Decision Memo.
16. Cost Estimates.



INDONESIA
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
LENGTHS OF ROADS BY ADMINISTRATIVE CATEGORIES, 1982
Popu-
Distribution        lation    Vehicle    Land
National    Provincial    District    Total        N + P    District      1980       fleet     area
Region         tN) Km       (P) KM           KM         Km          %           %          X          X         %
Java             1,633         6,782       29,068      37,483      18.4        28.7      61.9      69.9         6.9
Sumatra         3,673         12,605       28,767      45,045      35.5       28.2       19.0      18.0        24.7
Sulawesi        2,473          5,311       19,100      26,884      16.9        18.8       7.1        5.2        9.9
Kalimantan       1,228         4,296        5,807       11,331     12.1         5.7       4.6        3.6       28.1
Other Is.       2,802          5,004       18,949      26,755      17.0        18.6       7.6        3.3       30.5
Total       11,809         33,998      101,691     147,498    100.0       100.0      100.0     100.0       100.0
Percent            8.0          23.0         69.0        100.0
Source;  Data Satistik Jalan, 1982, Direktorit Jenderal Bina M4arga
Note:    Other islands include Bali, Nu.lx Tenggara, Maluku, Irian Jaya and East Timor.
March 1984
t-,3



Table 2.2
- 48 -
INDONESI A
HIGIIWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
Summary of the Type and Condition of Pavements
Pavement
Type/Condition                National      Provincial      District      Overall
----------------------- M -----------------------
Type
Paved                            75             55            34            42
Gravel                           23            23             23            23
Earth                             2            22             43            35
Total                       100            100            100           100
Condition /a
Stable condition                 43             30            25            28
Unstable condition               53            65             51            54
Critical condition                4             5             24            18
Total                       100            100            100           100
/a   Stable indicates a roadway condition that by regular mairntenance can be
kept adequate for the type and volime of traffic using the road while
unstable indicates a rough pavement condition with high vehicle operating
costs and requiring frequent attantion to prevent further deterioration,
and critical condition indicates badly deteriorated and often inpassable
roads.
Source:   National and Provincial Roads:  Data Statistik Jalan, 1982.
District Roads: Statistical Yearbook of Indonesia, 1982.
M4arch 1984



- 49 -                                   Table 2.3
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
Condition of and Traffic on Arterial and Collector Roads in March 1982
(km)
Pavement             Less than             400-      1500-      3000-    Over
Width   Type    Condition         200    200-400   1500         3000       6000    6000       Total
(in m)                        - --------------------- (vpd) --------------------
km       km       km        km          km        km         km
> 6    Asphaltic  Good         103.3         0.0       48.9    398.2    171.0    525.4   1,246.8
Concrete   Fair          1.9         0.0       18.5      70.2      58.6    170.2       319.3
Bad          0.0         0.0        1.0       3.9       5.0       4.0       13.9
4.5/6  Asphaltic  Good         116.0        67.2   1,151.9    980.6    448.2    200.9   2,964.8
Concrete   Fair         16.0        25.0      116.9    215.6       59.1      11.5      444.1
Bad          5.0         0.0        4.0      20.0       1.6       0.0       30.6
<4.5   Asphaltic  Good         133.0       406.8      608.9      46.0      30.1      15.5   1,240.4
Concrete   Fair         93.0        35.0      341.6      31.0      55.0       7.6      563.2
Bad         37.0         0.0       60.0       2.0       1.1       0.0      100.1
>4.5   Macadam    Good         162.7       100.1   1,074.0    718.4    383.8    133.7   2,572.6
Fair       194.1       196.1   1,083.7    926.6    654.8    322.1   3,378.4
Bad         73.0        42.0      231.7    184.4       41.6      26.1      598.8
<4.5   Macadam    Good        466.1        429.8      880.0    141.3       99.7       8.0   2,204.9
Fair    1,489.3        735.5   1,974.7    261.6    187.3         69.6   4,717.9
Bad        382.7       138.0      532.4      76.6      18.4       1.5   1,149.5
>4.5   Sealing    Good           6.4        21.0      112.1    125.9    102.5    202.3         570.2
Fair        40.7       117.5      406.4    373.8    295.2    145.1   1,378.7
Bad         21.2        13.0       78.6      20.2      23.2       0.0      156.2
04.5   Sealing    Good         135.0        16.0       97.0      78.8      24.8      94.2      445.8
Fair       237.7       100.1      390.3    168.6       61.8      44.1   1,002.6
Bad        223.9        16.0      102.5      14.0       4.2       0.0      360.6
<4.5   Gravel      Good    1,757.0         370.0      479.3       0.0       0.0       4.5   2,610.8
Fair    3,213.7    1,249.0   1,053.9         61.7      10.5       5.8   5,594.6
Bad      1,347.4       405.2      401.6      21.0       8.2       2.0   2,185.4
<4.5   Earth       Good        342.4        19.0       18.0       0.0       5.7       0.3      385.3
Fair       932.1       127.8       61.0       0.0       0.3       0.0   1,121.2
Bad        756.2       167.9       40.2       1.0       2.4       0.0      967.5
Totals      Good    3,221.7    1,429.9   4,470.1  2,489.0  1,266.0  1,184.8  14,061.5
Fair    6,219.4    2,586.0   5,446.9  2,109.1  1,382.6    775.8  18,519.8
Bad     2,846.3        782.1   1,452.0    343.1    105.6         33.6   5,562.7
Grand Total           12,287.4    4,798.0  11,369.0  4,941.2  2,754.2  1,994.2  38 144.0
Source:  DCH, .ebruary 1983.
March 1984



- 50 -                        Table 2.4
INDONESIA
HIGIHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
Veliicles Registered, 1969-81 /a
Total
Total        Motor-       motorized
Year         Cars /b   Trucks    Buses /c   4-wheel         cycles /d   vehicles
1969         212,124      95,660    20,497    328,281          336,597      664,878
197C         238,924    102,975    23,541    365,440           440,005      805,445
1971         256,988    112,877    22,562    392,427           510,764      903,191
1972         277,210    131,175    26,488    434,873           615,220   1,050,093
1973        307,739    144,060    30,368    482,167            720,056   1,202,223
1974         337,789    166,457    31,439    535,685           944,734   1,480,419
1975         383,661    196,416    35,103    614,580         1,191,771   1,806,351
1976        420,488    222,310    39,840    682,638          1,417,228   2,099,860
1977         497,335    278,979    48,089    806,403         1,704,964   2,511,367
1978         520,652    311,048    55,548    887,248         1,898,424   2,785,672
1979         577,345    383,645    69,545  1,030,538         2,266,183   3,296,721
1980        639,464    473,831    86,284  1,199,579          2,671,978   3,871,557
1981         719,336    589,439   113,509  1,422,282         3,207,499   4,629,783
Average Annual Growth (percent)
1969-1981       10.8        16.3       15.3        13.0           20.7          17.6
1969-1974        9.8        11.7        8.9        10.3           22.9          17.4
1974-1979       11.2        18.1       17.1        14.0           19.1          17.4
1979-1981       11.6        24.0       27.7        17.5           19.0          18.5
/a   Includes all registered vehicles including non-operational ones, except
military or diplomatic vehicles.
/b   Includes taxis and jeep (4-wheel drive)
/c   Includes minibuses.
/d   Includes motorcycles, motor scooters and motorized bicycles.
Sources: Directorate of Traffic, Police Headquarters.
March 1984



- 51  -ITable 2.5
INLXNESIA
HIGHW   BErrEM        P8aJECr
Traffic Grcwth by Provincze
Average    Average
aounded    ADr
growth   weighted
1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981  rate (%)    by km
Province                                             (ADT)                               (1973-81)    (1981)
Aceh                      166    201    226    163    585    519    847  1,058  1,145    27.3            835
Riau                      244    241    367    367    503    616    685    651    773    15.5          1,147
West Sumatra              393    434    513    450    580    664    846  1,125  1,271    15.8          1,133
North Sumtra              746    767  1,095    929  1,226  1,386  2,258  2,386  2,303    15.1            520
South Su&ntra             167    200    297    314    389    498    563    662    836    22.2            342
Jambi                      82     99    112      99    148    202    243    246    300    17.6           420
BeroiQAu                  141    104    103    163    305    306    295    359    453    14.0           918
Lampung                   993  1,193  1,260  1,4%  2,015  2,453  2,212  2,367  2,517    12.3           1,398
Total Sunatra        430    471    585    572    810    974  1,247  1,491  1,272    14.5           972
West Java               2,222  3,769  3,475  4,333  4,908  4,901  5,109  5,638  5,914    13.0          5,540
Central Java            1,137  1,210  1,717  2,187  2,067  2,830  3,001  3,752  3,957    16.8          3,847
Yogyakarta              1,942      -  2,811  3,491  4,267  5,186  5,977  3,947  3,365        9.5       3,619
East Java               1,509  1,635  1,926  2,313  2,605  3,063  3,263  3,640  3,930    12.7         3,437
Total Java         1,596  2,006  2,269  2,808  3,224  3,502  3,706  4,102  4,364    13.4         4,208
West Kalimantan           181    190    240    526    867    476    566    525  1,912    24.6            710
East Kalimantan           159    249    255    635    724    349    670  1,129  1,029    26.2            262
South Kalimasntan         212    396    489    519    507    758    597    724  1,177   23.84            511
Central Kimantan            -      -      -       -      -       -     67    350    367        -         788
Total K-Limantan    192    295    359    550    658    590    570    710  1,124    24.7            586
North Sulawesi            750    910    995    884  1,297  1,385  1,778  2,256  2,216    14.5          1,309
Central Slawesi           111    140    118    120    538    327    276    381    391    18.0            368
South Sulawesi            324    447    369    645    817  1,182  1,293  1,353  1,443    20.5          1,175
Sulawesi Tenggara         288    114    142       -    299       -    526    314    4%       7.8         225
Total &dLawesi       422    544    513    660    914  1,140  1,276  1,296  1,331    15.4           765
Bali                      765    870    996  1,548  1,526  1,641  1,662  2,171  2,844    24.4          1,963
NMB                       513    597    548    806    836    791    775    948  1,105    10.0            633
NIT                        74     85      72     77    182    200    272    260    280    18.0           228
Hleuku                      -      -  1,218  2,360  1,166        -  1,398  1,593  2,521    12.9          591
Irian Jaya                  -      -      -       -      -       -      -      -       -       -          -
Total Other lsl.       -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -        -          -
Total Indlonesia     850  1,165  1,287  1 596  1,897  2,171  2,240  2,336  2,441    14.1         1,473
AnnLal growth rate (Z)      -   37.1   10.4   24.0   18.9   14.4    3.2    4.2    4.5          -           -
Nbtes:
1.  Historical averages deternined as sum of four-wheel mtorized traffic (car, bus, trudk) divided by
numnber of count stations.
2. Method overestinates average traffic levels in less developed provinces (see last cclunn) because
traffic count stations are located along links closer to settled areas with high traffic volLxnes.
Hbwever, they slhuld give a good idea of traffic grcwth.
Source:  Coptiled by M.D. Lea Associates from various sources, March 1983.
Harch 1984



INDONESIA
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
DGH Geometric Design Standards /a
Primary Highways                                            Secondary Highways                                  Feeder Roads
I                   h~~~~~~1A                  11B                       ~llC                         II
Moun-                      Moun-                       Moun-                      Moun-                      Moun-
Terrain                    Flat  Rolling  tainous   Flat  Rolling  tainous   Flat  Rolling  tainous   Flat  Rolling  tainous   Flat  Rolling  tainous
Average daily                       20,000                 6,000-20,000                1,500-8,000                    <2,000                     <1,000
traffic (ADT) in
Passenger car units
Design speed (km/h)          120     100       80       100       80       60        80      60       40        60       40        30      60       40        30
Minimum right of way         60       60       60        40       40       40        30      30       30        30       30        30       20      20        20
(m)
No. of lanes x
Pavement width (m)           Minimum 4 x 3.75            2x3.50 or 4x3.50                 2x3.50                      2x3.50                    3.50-6.00/c
Minimum median width         10% of roadway                     1.5/b
(ms)
Shoulder width (m)         3.50    3.00    3.00        3.00    2.50    2.50       3.00    2.50    2.50        2.50    1.50       1.00           1.50-2.50/c
Pavement cross slope                 22                          2%                         2%                          32                         42
Shoulder cross slope                 4%                          4%                         6%                          6%                         67
Surfacing                Asphaltic Concrete (AC)                 AC                         /d                          /d                         /d
(hot mix)
Maxtauum superelevation              10%                         10%                        10%                         10%                        10%
Minimum horizontal          560      350      210       350      210      115      210      115       50       115       50        30      115      50        30
radius (m)
Maximum grade                 3%       5%      6Z        4%       6%       7%        5%       7%      8%        6%       8%       10%       6%      8%       12%
/a  Pavement structure is designed in accordance with DGH's "A Guide for Pavement Design (Felxible)", 1974, No. 41PO/BM, and for a design life of
about ten years, unless another design life would be warranted. Bridges are designed in accordance with OGH's "Standard Loading Specification for
Highway Bridges", 12/1970.
/b  Only for 4-lane highways.
7E  According to condition.
7Td  Surfacing selected can vary from single bituminous surface treatment to asphaltic concrete on the basis of economic considerations.  Generally
roads with the above design standards can be varied flexibly to suit special conditions of traffic, land use or terrain.
Source:  Directorate General of Highways, Standard Document No. 13/1970.
March 1984



1NDOIiJSIP.
HIGHWAY BETTERMEN' PROJECT
Gross Domstic Product asd Cettral Government Budget !1penditures by Type, 1977-81
(Rp billion)
Average
Actual                             annual I change              distribution of total budget
GDP, budget expenditures                      1977       1978        1979        1980        1981      1977-80   1980181    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Current Rupiahs
Cross domestic product                   19,011.0   22,458.0   31,023.0   43,765.0   53,393.0          32.0       22.0       -        -        -       -        -
Total budget expenditures                 4,305.7    5,299.3    8,076.0   11,716.1   13,000.0          39.6       18.6    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
R%tifne budget                          2,148.9    2,743.7    4,061.B    7,800.0    7,501.0          53.'      (3.8)    49.9    51.8    50.3    66.6    54.0
Development budget                      2,156.8    2,555.6    4,014.2    3,916.1    6,399.0          22.0      63.4      50.1    48.2    49.7    33.4    46.0
Communications and tourism              354.7       413.2       465.8       708.0       810.0     25.9       14.4       8.2      7.8     5.8      6.0      5.8
Highway program
Interurban nontoll                  87.6       121.8       248.9       256.2       278.6      43.0        2.7       2.0     2.3      3.1      2.2     2.0
Urban and toll road                  13.0        18.5        17.3       46.5       120.1      52.9      158.3       0.3     0.3      0.2      0.4     0.9
Total Highway                       100.6      140.3       266.2       302.7       398.7      44.4       31.7       2.3     2.6      3.3      2.6     2.9
Other  nomaunication and tourism        254.1       Z72.9       199.6       405.3      412.3      16.8        1.7       5.9      5.2     2.5      3.4      3.0   '
Other development expenditures          1,802.1    2,142.4    3,548.4    3,208.1    5,589.0          21.2      74.2      41.9    40.4    43.9    27.4    40.2
Constant 1973 Rupiahs /a
Gross domestic product                    8,871.0    9,471.0   10,225.0   10,954.0   11,720.8           7.3        7.0        -       -        -       -
Total budget expenditures                 2,066.7    2,331.7    2,665.1    3,163.3    3,336.0          15.2        5.4    100.0   100.0   100.0   1(1.0.    10.
Routine budget                          1,031.4    1,207.2    1,340.4    2,106.0    1,800.2          26.9     (14.5)    49,9    51.8    50.3    66.6    54.0
Development budget                      1,035.3    1,124.5    1,324.7    1,057.3    1,535.8           0.7      45.3      50.1    48.2    49.7    33.4    46.0
Comnmunications and tourism             170.3       181.8       153.7       191.2        94.4      3.9        1.7       8.2      7.8     5.8      6.0      5,8
Highway program
lTterutban tontoll                   46.4        60.9       94.6        74.3        69.7      17.0       (6.2)      2.3      2.6     3.6      2.4      2.1
Urban and tol1 road                   6.9         9.3        6.5        13.3        30.0      25.1      122.2       0.3     0.4      0.2      0.4     0.9
Total Highway                        53.3        70.2       10i.1       87.8        99.7      18.1       13.6       2.6      3.0     3.8      2.8      3.0
Other communication and tourism         117.0       111.6        52.6       103.4        94.7      (4.0)     (8.4)      5.7      4.8      2.0     3.3      2.8
Ot'her development expenditures           865.0       942.7    1,171.0        866.2    1,341.4        0.5       54.9     41.9    40.4    43.9    27.4    40.2   1
la  Derived by deflating current Ruxpiah data by general price index excluding exports, except for highway program data which was deflated by the whole-
sale price index for public works on roads and bridges.
Source: Co"pIlea by Halcrow Fox$ Ltd. from various sources, 1962.
March 1984



INDONESIA
HIGERWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
Central Government aLlRhway Expenditures by Type of Road and Expenditure. 1977-81
(Rp billion)
Average annual           Z distribution of total prograr.
1977     1978      1979     1980      1981    Z change 1977-81      1977      1978     1979      1980     1981
Total Hlighway Program              100.6    140.3    266.2    302.7    398.7             41.1           100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Interurban Nontoll
New construction la               3.6      3.6       3.5      9.9      18.9           51.4             3.6      2.6       1.3      3.3      4.7
Betterment                      52.9      75.3     99.7    142.6    121.2            23.0            52.6      53.7     37.5      47.2     30.3
Bridge replacement               19.3     29.1      17.3     26.2      26.1           7.8            19.2      20.7      6.5       8.7      6.5
Subtotal                      75.8    108.0    120.5    178.7    166.2             21.7            75.4      77.0     43.3      99.1     41.7
Support works                     9.5     10.9      22.4     7h.9    104.5           82.1              9.4      7.8      8.4      24.7     26.2
Rehabilitation & maint.           2.3      2.9       1.2      2.6       7.9          36.1              2.3      2.1      0.5       0.9      2.0
Subtotal                       11.8     13.8     23,6      77.5    112.4           75.7            11.7       9.8      8.9      25.6     Z8.2
Total Interurban Nontoll      87.6    121.8    144.1    256.2    278.6             33.5            87.1      86.8     93.5      84.6     69.9
Urban Nontoll
New construction la               1.0      0.7       2.7      8.4       7.6           66.0             1.0      0.5       1.0      2.9       1.9
Betterment                         -        -         -       0.3       2.6            -               -         -        -        0.1      0.7
Total Urban Nontoll             1.0      0.7       2.7      8.7      10.2          78.7              1.0      0.5       1.0      3.0      2.6
Toll Roads lb
Urban la                          3.0      3.5       4.1     17.5      37.9           88.5             3.0      2.5       1.5      5.8      9.5
Interurban                       9.0      14.3      10.5     20.3      72.0          68.2             8.9      10.2      3.9       6.7     18.1
Total Toll Roads               12.0     17.8      14.6     37.8    109.9           74.0            11.9      12.7      5.5      12.5     27.6
Summary by Component
N4ew construction                16.6     22.1      20.8     56.1    136.4            69.3            16.5     15.8       7.8     18.5      34.2
Toll                           12.0     17.8      14.6     37.8    109.9           74.0             11.9     12.7       5.5     12.5     27.6
Nontoll                        4.6       4.3       6.2     18.3      26.5           54.9            4.6       3.1       2.3      6.1       6.6
X nontoll                   27.7      19.5     29.8      12.6      19.4                    -            -             -         -        -
Betterment                       52.9     75.3      99.7    142.9    123.8            23.7           52.6      53.7      37.5     47.2      31.1
Bridge replacement               19.3     29.1      17.3     26.2      26.1           7.9            19.2      20.7      6.5       8.7       6.S
Support works                     9.5     10.9      22.4     74.9    104.5            82.1             9.4      7.8      8.4      24.7      26.2
Rehabilitation & maint.           2.3      2.9       1.2      2.6       7.9          36.1              2.3      2.1      0.5       0.9       2.0
Other Ic                           -        -      104.8       -         -              -               -        -       B.4        -         -
fa Proportion of new construction in urban (total and toll) estimated based on Repelita II reported program share.
lb  Includes Rp 4.8 billion of land acquisition for toll roads.
77 Purchase of conatruction equipment.
Source: Compiled by Halcrow Fox from various sources, 1982.
March 1984



55 -                               Table 2.9
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
Provincial C vernment Hlighway Expenditures by Type of Road and Expenditure, 1979-81
(Rp biLlIton)
% distribution
Average annual           of totals
1979   1980   1981  % change 1979-81   1979   1980   1981
Total Highway Program              45.6   70.2   88.1            39.0        100.0  100.0  100.0
Interurban NontUll
New construction                1.2    2.0    8.4          164.6          2.6    2.8    9.5
Betterment                      8.6   13.5   16.0           36.'4        18.9   19.2   18.2
Bridge replacement              2.5    4.2   11.1          110.7          5.5    6.0   12.6
Subtotal                     12.3   19.7   35.5           69.9         27.0   28.0   40.3
Support works                  12.2   20.1   32.1           62.2         26.8   28.6   36.4
Rehabilitation & maint.        14.1   21.8   11.3          (10.5)        30.9   31.1   12.8
Subtotal                     26.3   41.9   43.4           28.5         57.7   59.7   49.2
Total Interurban Nontoll   38.6   61.6   78.9             43.0         84.7   87.7   89.5
Urban Nontoll
New construction                 -       -     0.1            -            -       -     0.1
Betterment                      4.2    5.1    0.5          (65.5)         9.2    7.3    0.6
Bridge replacement               -       -     0.3            -            -       -     0.3
Subtotal                      4.2    5.1    0.9          (53.7)         9.2    7.3    1.0
Support works                    -       -     8.3            -            -       -     9.4
Rehabilitation & maint.         2.8    3.5      -             -           6.1    5.0      -
Subtotal                      2.8    3.5    8.3           72.2          6.1    5.0    9.4
Total Urban Nontoll           7.0    8.6    9.2           14.6          5.3   12.3   10.5
Toll Roads
UrbUan                           -       -       -             -            -      -       -
Interurban                       -      -       -             -            -       -      -
Total Toll Roads               -      -       -             -            -       -      -
Summary by Component
New construction                1.2    2.0    8.5          166.2          2.6    2.8    9.6
Toll                           -      -       -             -            -       -      -
Nontoll                       1.2    2.0    8.5          166.2          2.6    2.8    9.6
% nontoll                100.0  100.0  100.0              -            -       -      -
Betterment                     12.8   18.6   16.5           13.5         28.1   26.5   18.7
Bridge replacement              2.5    4.2   11.4          113.5          5.5    6.0   12.9
Support works                  12.2   20.1   40.4           82.0         26.8   28.6   45.9
Rehabilitation & maint.        16.9   25.3   11.3          (18.2)        37.1   36.0   12.8
Source:  Ministry of Home Affairs and sample of provincial budgets.
March 1984



INDONESIA
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
DGH Highway Development Programs
1979/80 - 1983184 and 1984/85 - 1988/89
*                                   (in USS million)
Repelita ill/a                                                 Repelita IV (b
Program                 1979/80  1980(81  1981/82  1982183  1983184   Total           1984785  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89   Total
Mlaintenance               1.5      32.        5.5       6.4       6.8      Z3.4        39.0      47.7      58.5      71.9      R8.8      305.9
Support works             30.8      59.3      98,0      85.8      38.2     31Z,1         53.1      5Z.8     50.4      45.5      36.8      238.6
Betterment                87.2    192.5    201.6    269.2    231.9         982.4       Z44.0    259.6    265.9    269.9    239.2   1,Z78.7
Construction              31.2    103.6       37.2      72.4      79.0     323.4         49.9     53.d      60.8      68.4      71.8      304.7
Bridge replacement        27.8      41.8     40.0      47.4      17.0      174.0        90.0    100.8    112.9    126.4    141.6          571.7
Institutional &
staff developmer.t      68.4      62.3     Ra.3    13S.0       71.8      426.R        47.6      51.5      54.9      58.2      57.8     270.0
Total              246.9    462.7    471.6    616.2    444.7   2  41.1            523.6    566.4    603.4   640.2    636.0   2,969.6
[a   Actnal expenditures for 1979(80, 1980181 and 1981/82 - and budget for 1982/83 and 1983/84
(b   Budget proposal with a target of having 80% of national and provincial roads in stable condition by end of plan period.
Source; DOG
March 1984



- 57 -                        Table 3. 1
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY BETTSRMENT PROJECT
Betterment Program, Phase 1
Estinated
Contract                     Province                     Lenrgth     total cost
No.                    and Road Section                   (km)       (Rp ftlt)
West Sumatra
1.          Bukit Tinggi - Bonjol                        57.9          3,280
2.          8ukit Tinggi - Kota A-lan                    69.0           3,936
3.          Kota Alam - Riau Border                      51.0           3,445
Subtotal                                177.9         10661
North Sumatra
4.           Jembatan Merah - Ranjau Batu                61.0           2,918
RIau
5.           Parit - Bangkinang                          51.1           2,947
6.           Bangkinang - West Sumatra Border            35.3           2,738
Subtotal                                 86.4          5,685
South Sumatra
7.           ?rabumnulih - Karangagung                   47.0           2,710
8.           Karangagung - Baturaja                      59.0           4,321
9.           Betung - Sekayu                             55.8           3,463
Subtotal                                161.8         10,494
West Java
10.          Ciamis - Cikijing                            50.0           3,656
11.           Cikijing - Cirebon                          50.4          4,253
12.           Cirebon - Pejagan                           37.8           3,558
21.           Ciawi - Cianjur                             50.4           5,435
Subtotal                                188.6         16,902
Central Java
13.          Bawen - Yogya Border                         74.4          6,498
14.          Tegal - Pejagan - Prupuk                     66.8          6,079
15.           Sukrakarta - Mantingan                      41.4          5,207
Subtotal                                182.6         17,785
East Java
16.          Mantingan - Caruban                          68.9          4,745
17.          Nganjuk - Tulungagung                        63.7          5,272
18.          Ngimbang - Kandangan                         56.1          3,434
Subtotal                                188.7         13,451
South Sulawesi
19.           Ujung Pandang - Allu                        60.0          3,826
20.           Allu - Bantaeng                              58.6          3,337
Subtotal                                118.6          7,163
Urban Areas
22.           Tembung - Medan - Brayan                     10.5          2,005
23.           Dawuan - Kalijaga - Cirebozn                 15.3          3,006
24.          l.adai   Ujung Pandang - 1acini Sombala   30.0             5,841
25.           Bandarharjo - Jatingaleh (Sernarang)         13.6          2,344
SubtDtal                                 69.4         13,196
rotal                            1,235.0          98,255
Source:   DGH.
March 1984



Table 3.2
- 58 -
INDONESIA
HICIIWAY EBTTBRKSNT PROJECr
Upgrading/Rehabil1tation of Key Roada:  PFret-Year Program (198418S)
Es ttmaated
Province and road sectton                    Length                  total cost
(km)                   (Rp wiln)
Ak eh
Langsa-Sumatra Utara 8order                 30.0t                     1.302
North Sumatra
I4edan-Kabanjake                             30.0 1,302
West Sumatra
Padang Panjang-lubukeramnbtl                 9.5                        343
Kubukerambil-Solok                          20.5                        959
Subtotal                                 30.0                      1.302
South Sumatra
Rasuan-Gunungbatu                            12.5                       750
Kurungan Nyawa-Martapura                    17.5                        536
Subtotal                                 30.0                     1,286
lampung
Tegineneng-On. Suglh                          9.9                       413
Gn. Sugih-Terbangi Besar                    11.8                        492
Gn. Sugib-Gd. Dalam                          24.3                     1,012
Subtotal                                 46.0                      1.917
West Java
Cilegon-Labuan                               10.0                       361
Pandeglang-Sakati                            2.9                        138
Pandeglang-Serang                           23.8                      1,024
Lianjur-Padalarang                          18.1                        795
Cianjur-Sulcabumi                           27.0                      1,043
Cianjur-Sindangbarang                        2.3                         68
Subtotal                                 84.1                      3.434
Central Java
X4argoyoao-Jepara                            16.3                       699
Pati-Tayu                                   18.0                        682
Boyolali-Kartosuro                           5.4                        262
Kartosuro-Surakartg                           5.0                       222
Salatiga-Magelang                           42.0                      1,961
Surakarta-Sukoliarjo                         7.6                        306
Subtotal                                 94.3                      4.132
Yo yakarta
Yogyakarta-Pr. Tricts                         6.X                       199
Yogyakarta-Xaliurang                        10.0                        413
Yogyakarta-Pengang                           14.0                       662
Subtotal                                 30.0                      1.274
East Java
Sampolan-Centeng                            34.2                      1,319
Krian-Mojoaari                                7.2                       366
Mojosari-Pandanarura                         13.0                       689
Krian-tagundi                                 2.9                       117
Gempol-Mojosart                              16.4                       641
Ngawi-Maospat i                               3.E                       204
Maoapati-Madiun                              10.1                       580
Ngawui-Padangan                             37.6                      1,223
Subtotal                                125.2                      5.339
Eali
Singaraja-Batusart                          19.5                        694
Singe..aja-Seririt                           2.5                        117
Singaraja-Kubutamobaban                      12.0                       584
Subtotal                                 34.0                      1.395
GRANT) TOTAL                            533.6                     22.683
Source:  N.D. Lea AaaociateG, February 1984.
?March 1984



- 59 -              Table 3.3
INDONESIA
RIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
Bridge Replacement Program
Tentative
Phase I            Phase II           Phase III           Total
Program            Program             Program            Program
No. of   Total    No. of   Total    No. of   Total    No. of   Total
bridges  length   bridges  length   bridges  length   bridges  length
Province                          (m)                 km)                  (n)                 (m)
Aceh                      -          -         9      235         10       500        19       735
North Sumatra             -          -         7      305          1       120         8       425
West Sumatra              5        250         -        -          -         -         5       250
Riau                      3         95         -        -          8       275        11       370
Jambi                     -          -        10      345          -         -        10       345
Bengkulu                  -          -         -        -          -         -         -         -
South Sumatra             -          -         -        -         16       525        16       525
Lampung                   -          -         7      280          3       105        10       385
West Java                 -          -         -        -          -         -         -         -
Central Java              -          -        10      305          5       23n        15       535
Yogyakarta                -          -         -        -          -         -         -         -
East Java                 1        105         2      170          4       450         7       725
West Kalimantan           -          -         -        -          6       135         6       135
Central Kalimantan        -          -                             -         -         -         -
East Kalimantan           7        200         -        -          6       155        13       355
South Kalimantan          2         55         8      265          -         -        10       320
Bali                      1        180         -        -          -         -         1       180
West Nusa Tengara         -          -         -        -          -         -         -         -
East Nusa Tengara         -          -         -        -          -         -         -         -
Timor Timur               -             -          -               -         -         -         -
North Sulawesi            4        345         6      325          7       225        17       895
Central Sulawesi          3        175         -        -         10       475        13       650
South Sulawesi            3        355         -        -          8       570        11       925
Southeast Sulawesi        -          -         -        -         10       405        10       405
Maluku                    -          -         _-                            -         -         -
Irian Jaya               10        390         -        -          -         -        10       390
Total               39      2,150         59   2,230         94    4,170         192    8,550
Average length              55 m                 38 m                44 m                45 m
Source:  DGH, December 1983
March 1984



- 60 -                        Table 3.4
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY BETrnRMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimate /a
Rp billion or USS  il/b       % foreign
Project Component                         Local    Foreign    Total       exchange
A. Civil Works
(t)  Betterment of 2,000 km
of Intercity Trunk Routes         64.0        96.0    160.0           60
(ii)  Upgrading/Rehabilitation
of 1,000 km of Key National
and Provincial Reads              15.0        28.0      43.0          65
(iii) Replacement of 8,000 a
of Deficient Bridges              14.6        41.4      56.0          74
Subtotal (A)                   93.6       165.4    259.0          64
B. Equipment
.(1) For quality control
of asbuton                          -          1.0       1.0          95
(ii)  For surface dressing                0.1         i.7      1,8          95
(iiI) For mobile soil and
materials laboratories             0.1         1.1       1.2          95
Subtotal (B)                    0.2         3.8      4.0          95
C. Technical Assistance
.(I)  For DPUPs and DBMs                 2.3         4.7       7,0          67
(ii)  For DGH's Planning Directorate   0.1           0.5       0.6          80
(i1i)  For ITB graduate courses            0.6         2.9      3.5          83
(iv) For DPKJ for materials
survey and asbuton
quality control                  0.2         0.8       1.0          80
Subtotal (C)                    3.2         8.9      12.1         74
D. Consulting Services for
supervision of A (1) and (iiI)           5.2        10.4     15.6          67
Total Base Costs              102.2       188.5    290,7           65
E. Contingencies
Physical /c                       10.1        18.4      28.5          65
Price /d                          32.7        32.5      65.2          50
Subtotal (E)                   42.8        50.9      93.7          54
Total Project Cost            145.0       239.4    384.4           62
/a  Prices as of early 1984.
/b  US$1.00 - Rp 1,000.00
/c  10% on all items except C (iii) and (iv).
/d  Expected price increases (%):        1984      1985     1986      1987      1988
Local      12.0     10.0      10.0      10.0     9.0
Foreign    3.0       7.5       9.0       9.0     9.0
Source: DGH, consultants and mission, Jane 1983.
March 1983



- 61 -                       Table 3.5
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
(US$ miilionT
IBRD fiscal year                               Cumulative disbursements
and end of semester                                  at end of semester
1985
December 31, 1984                                          6.0
June 30, 1985                                             38.4
19B6
December 31, 1985                                         74.4
June 30, 1986                                            110.4
1987
December 31, 1986                                        146.4
June 30, 1987                                            182.4
1988
December 31, 1987                                        216.0
June 30, 1988                                            232.8
1989
December 31, 1988                                        240.0
Closing date:          December 31, 1988
March 1984



- 62 -
Table 4.1
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
Road User Costs on Improved Road in South Sumatra
(Rp per km, in 1982 prices)
Vehicle          Fuel &                Repair &                      Other/a
Type             oil       Tires    maintenance   Depreciation   costs    Total
Motorcycle         5.4        0.2          6.0            7.9          6.4      25.9
Car               19.8        3.2         15.0           49.6         33.4    120.8
Light bus         34.4        1.3         17.5           21.7         52.9    127.8
Heavy bus         49.1        7.4         25.0           55.7        125.1    262.4
Light truck       33.5        1.9         22.5           20.9         25.8    104.6
Medium truck      41.2        4.2         22.5           18.7         37.9    124.5
Heavy truck         -          -            -
Jeep              36.0        2.5         17.5           43.0         35.1    141.4
/a Crew and occupants' time.
Source:  Screening Feasibility Office, DCH.
March 1984



INDONESIA
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
Basic Road User Costs by Region
(Rp per vehicle-km, i982/83 prices)
West       Central       East       South         West         South            East        South
Java         Java        Java      Sumatra       Sumatra    Kalimantan       Kalimantan   Sulawesi
Miotorcycle            21.1        22.7       23.1         25.9          25.2          27.4            30.2         26.8
Car                   101.4        98.8      97.7         120.8         139.8         153.6           165.4        154.7
Small bus             103.7        97.0     100.8         127.8         141.5         141.3           148.5        131.3
large bus/a          241.5        229.4     228.0         262.4         269.9         175.6           181.1        265.7
Light truck            84.8        82.7      85.7         104.8         111.6         112.6           117.5        109.8
Medium truck          135.6       133.3      130.9        124.5         146.5         156.4           163.2        160.9
Heavy truck           183.5       191.3      186.5           -          183.0            -               -             -
Jeep                  114.8       112.3      110.7        141.4         159.4         168.9           177.6         143.6
/a   34-seaters in all provinces except in South and East Kalimantan, where they are 24-seaters.
Source: Screening Feasibility Office, DGH.
'March 1984



- 64 -                        Table 4.3
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
Road User Savings on a Sample Road Section
(Rp per vehicle-km iTl 1982 prices)
Before improvement          After improvement           Saving
Motorcycle                     32.5                        30.5                2.0
Car                           194.4                       182.2               12.2
Light bus                     228.1                       202.5               25.6
Heavy bus                     385.0                       350.5               34.5
Light truck                   179.0                       161.4               17.6
Medium truck                  206.4                       191.6               14.8
Heavy truck                   322.5                       289.3               33.2
Note:  The above data allow for the specific geometric features of the road,
such as gradients, curves, etc.
Source: SFO, DGH.
March 1984



- 65 -                                       Table 4,4
INDONRSI A
HIGAWAY BETTEItRMENT PROJECT
Sample Test on Economic Returns
Re-estimates allowing for the effects of the 1983
Devaluation on Relative Price Changes
Overall return, all costs and benefits
Standard
DGH estimate              deviation
First               about        Probability that the         First
Region and                      AADT   Overall   year   Overall  mean rate         overall return is            year
road            Length    (1981)  return   return  return   (points)   <10%  10-15%  15-30%  >30%    return
(km)                        (Z) -----
A. SUMATRA
Jembatan Merab
Ranjau Batu
03020-01         15.5          791    36        21     32         6.1        -      -       42      58       23
(SUMD 1)
03020-02         33.2          791    38        22     32         6.3        -      -       42      58       24
(SUM02)
03020-03         11.7          727    30        24     25         5.8        -      5       79      16       21
Sekayu-Betung
15029-01         21.2         752    36        42      42         7.2       -       -       3       97      47
(SUM04)
15029-02         25.0         592    23         32     29         5.5       -       -      67       33      32
( SUMO5)
15029-03         12.6       1,217    32         37     49         8.9       -       -       2       98      52
S. JAVA
Ci kiiing-Kuningan
22065-01          5.0       5,010    97         34     67        13.0        -      -        1      99       32
(JAW'.)
22065-02          7.0       3,240    57         27     34         8.5        1      1       27      71       14
(JAWA2)
22065-03          8.0       3,240    44         26     26         7.6        3      6       63      2S       10
( JAWA3)
Palur-Sragen
24023-01          1.5      11,100   105         23     72        14.0       -       -       -      100       19
(JAWA4)
24023-02         12.5      11,770   109         39     67        13.9        -      -        1      99       46
(JAWA5)
24023-03         10.0      11,560   122         36     67        12.7        -      -        -     100       27
Kediri-Nganjuk
28071-01         25.4       8,034    60         25     33         8.1        -      2       34      66       10
(JAWA7)
Notes:  (1)  Post-devaluation price adjustment effects are estimated by increasing all prices for tradeable
goods by the devaluation rate; and local prices by 25% the average adjustruen, factors are:
construction cost, 1.34; maintenance cost, 1.26; time savings, 1.25; vehicle operating costs, 1.49.
(2)  Probability distributions for risk analysis are: (a) construction cost uniform chance of variations
between cost estimte and +50%; (b) normally distributed variattons about values 20% share cost
estimates standard deviation 10% of mean; (c) time savings normally distributed about values 70%
below SFO estimates, standard deviation 10% of mean; (d) vehicle cost (before roughness adjustment)
varying normally about the central estimates, 25% standard deviation; (e) spectal roughness effects
varying normally about values 20% below the central estimates, 12% standard deviation.
Source:   DGH Screening Feasibility Office and Mission Estimates.
March 1984



Chart 1
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
Central and Provincial Wofks Organizations
In ReWon to Highway Administration
N%W0,dPu1:AicWorM1                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(27)
IC-hotl                                                                                              I  W    I~W,lot
PrGw    Geetol           Irfrto   G        iac
Caca~e         Ger c  d                                                                                                 __  nod
Doed~~~oted               Doccoexe s           (oMo)            Bin_    m
___~~~~~1                                                              Cr----2COOl 
rSub-&ocIoe I |Sub-rectrlde          F40D-nreclee    SuO-Doectrce          Sub-dim   sf         S ct|                su"eofe |seS| -eoco|
r~~~~~~~~~ P-                                       EVe-            1 f-                    d&V1                                   a  =            .r;=                  (f.-  
I                                                               .           I  ,.                                                                      ,
I ~ ~    ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       Op R fegu ra Betelremont                                        ss   s e
(D.*on dAl *]       Antk  I & I. C-dir-   d COn ,muccO
ISnp       @ Wok Sites to, Saeent IWois. & Advice to DRVs)
* U.do        ~ rca.dA.oh. Nae S-o   AOu Wesl,-t      -
2 PolTernt  Jonb. South k t ch . Berngkuh LOj
3              Ntlg   Po.olWv ,a Wo eo, nO, 0o Con0 Ooo
L .-       430 .o Pa,o'o Onc                                                          ___________________-__                          _ _______
Betto,nenTen I Ai - becutod ttlogh Cor*ot GmerowN t4e R                                  eeg eo  0ent OMC=
6e IIr0Tu0     Pio0tCod Eos CanItd&SoJh flWImontan
7 UrCP wond     no,+  SdSouth & Souteo,7&,So.e
8 Mogido       NoAmcs d Noflh & Cantol Suk_
_  T  Wd 3                  Tyd WDI 911>.                             I~~~~~~~~~~~NoslechNccd Mcner)
Swce    0Pufi*a wok                                                                                                                 Zo
~ *oe3 3En-52



Ch.~t 2
INDONEA
HICGHWAY BETIERMENT PROJEC
NoPino of Wed Sumwto
PromneIla Dodment d Public Wodi5 (DPUP)
OWgantIon Cha
=;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                  I
QoOds D. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~       O~Q  5~e
~~  ~CWO~~~ ~fiCWO vim            CWO*WO&
-iIlAtAbbAA49;AitA;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
*A~~~.                                    I                      
S-~~~101d,    >s
1083~~WIfSXC                                                           WR



68                                                       Chart 3
I NDONESIA
HIGHWAY BErTERMENT PROJECT
Kabupaten Public Works Department (DPUK)
Typical Organization Chart
Chlef of DPUK    |
Logistic        Financial         Personnel lngement
.Affairs         Affairs           AffairsAfir
r X r I -Ir ~~~~~~~~~I                                                                 IA-   
Plning               Planning              Building                 Broadgs &             lmgation           Maintenanrce.
Planniong             Section               Setion                    Becidoe               Sectior            & Workcshop
Section                           I      Section                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Section
Sector
Coordinator
Sector I         Sectoa 11        Sertor 111           Sectori/          SectorV          SectorVI         SectVrVII
overseer
Foreman
Source  Rurol Roods Develorpment Project. Loan 2083-IND. Staff Appraisal Report. Docember 10 1981
Woirld Bank -25827



69
Chart 4
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
Source and Fow of Funds for Road
Malntenance and Development
Inrs 9stTT5Gont                                                                                   c       |                   Incone
& Tolls                                                                                                                   (2nd Lc n cd  (1 nevel)
titn l D opmnent                          
Inpres
8udet APB) |ProvinciallInpres                         Kc_bup_tern
|                                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~npres (TK.I)'   Jalon            , ,(TKJI)+'
Jasr Margo Bu                 Bfna Marg                                                      Provincial Developrnent        District Developme_ t
Ebsa Morgez   gna Marga Budget                         Budget (APBD TK.1I)          Budget (APBD TK.11)
Rehabilitatilon  Spot          B                rde           Spot           Big
Maiintenanice                      ""'s em"t   Relcmn-oks                  epaemn
Stable Roads                              Non-Stable Roads
Nationl & Provinclal Roads                                             District Roads
[ol2 1oorJs J I                                     (ArterIal. Collector & Local Roads)                               L       (Local Roads)
+ Through Ministry of Horne Affairs Budgets    * Roject Ad & Land Acquisition Costs
Source: DGH
November 1983                                                                                                                         World Bank-25782



_  PHILI PPINES                                                     I                         I
'7     /                    BR UN EI~ t                     "                                                                    110 .
Pt, I IiL  DLI WN' 
MA  L AYS  11A                                                                                                                             \
d                                     S ' .           /        I5 ' ,                             - 6                      / . 1R   V
', KALIMANIAN            '      .                           .R                                       lI        !
t  \! J  P   *     2      j     A~ULAWLSI
'a, -    IRIAN  IAYA         ,N.
. A I   , /   \              /                            |}        \>           ;            z    //j                                                    ) N\
[,jIiA/    ,r ,          IAWA~ a                          . '/,'                I              ,J' .,,- 
11100          .-                                                                                                                                 . _  a- t  
TaonjungS.0or, "'
M  A  L  A  Y  SI  A                                       /
' tI ,                           '                                                                                                                            < Tanjungred
ingkawgn                                 'alaM NrangN Putuss                               0      K     A            MMAA NjTTAANN
t \   rAk       '~~~~~~~ C aikarangan                  ,                                 
1LA   /                   .;                                        ,'-    j- A  ' 00                                                             JJ 1
meui  aWa                  /Sanggat                         'Snan                                                                                                                        B
Xotina \L  _o  9                                  "               . ~                                                Ir' ina
x o n t i a n .k   '                                K o ta b a r u
I                                                                      ~~~~~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tengg ron
N                                               ac/ (  \ 8Nangapinoh   /    '                      Purikcau                                                                r
Telukbatang                        , .                                                                     uent-l9an
'i      '              Sandai          /                           ,                       ,                 t                                                   >1
o                                                                                            V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/~~~~~~~~a ~~~~~~kpapan
;)                                                                            " " A      f   J                     ,am
Ke tapang;         t                 ',                       /               '                    / t                                   'r thg  go
\) ? \ / Ka; Kasongan I    a                    Kndangan
\ > Sukaraja                                                                                   A    -aagaaa munta,pi\~
'.endavwangan               ,Pangkalanburi               Sa it                     l                 a>                          J
,andangan
7hts MaV has been P'opared by                                                      J
The %Bbrkt Bank' s stalt O.cluwrerly                                               l                                     sF                                  .
for theonvenerceI hthe                                             i                                            B     t.               artapura              totabaru
reed&is and Isedsrey/rIr                                             yalJm$l       
nternal use of rhle  ofAOtd Bank                                                                                                               Pagatan    /
and the Jntendahona/ Fnance
Corpofabton the denonmnattens                                                                                                _-
used and the bo-ndanes shown n                                                                                          PlriI
on tMls rnap do not 'fnly. on the
parl of The Wrld Bank and the|
Internatlonal Fnance Corporalonr.
any ludg-nenf on the lVel statis
o0 any terrtory Of any 
endcese,seinf rS ac eDlence 0/f
such boutalda                                                                                         f      ;      lo te 
.50
KILD)METERS   z            |       100 110            200                 300                400
MILES   i                I      
0             50             100            160             200            250
_1100                                                            _1150



IBRD 17535R
, _  -   1280      MARCH  1984
I N D O  N E S I A
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROIJECT                                                                           .
KALIMANTAN AND SULAWESI
PROJECT
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT (PHASE I)
' -   *- -   HIGHWAY UPGRADING / REHABI,LITATION (YEAR ti
A.1 X .BRIDGE REPLACEMENT (PHASE tl
PREVIOUS PROJECTS
,CR. 260 IND.
, ,+  -   -  CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENTS  LOAN 1236 IND.
LOAN 1696 IND.
)                                                                        - ~   NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
PROVINCIAL ROADS
------  LOCAL ROADS
.J..      PORTS
t  >  t   AIRPORTS
bIPROVINCIAL BOUNDARIE'i
. .- -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Ns  '                                                            Paleleh                                 anaci=   iri Tembaga
--angkSankuirang   )                           1 )     tol   '                                                        otican p na n
/(                                                            outonglkuo
,ontang                        Saban    /
002
) (/  (x,          r   A    c    I r F          , C      U    L   r   A    N
/Saffiarinda                              P~Dondo
Palu                                    -JP/ ~~~~~~~~~~~Balantak
Luwij
papan                              Pi oK                  +          'so       Toili     j
}%                        :    a       S                 vLb, S   > (Zs<u2a  j /B an k
j        ~~~GimPu    r,                                       -1S
.'I'T rips                            rr        tIt        \- ]
,f kale   '  pKolonodalealqp
y  I  ~~~S ................ XO B\ui Pungk u
8 Marnuju J \ ~~~~~~~~6 U L A W E S I
Majn.         /      Enekang             Lasusua
lin                             ~~~~~~~~~Wawotobi 
Piman9+<    J  /   >           oKen~~~~~~~~Kedari
P               l,yy..f6Fngkalene                     Kends .r. _tT  
Paepairnipa       Kolak7
IJ/     \r t!hatampone
MatostvZ /\ v Rahasi, w! ,R ha
Ujungp8 da                jai
LBau Bau
TakaIar't Sar taefl,                                 
Jenepontro       Bululkurba
i }en tong
1200                                                                             1 215



1 10013'
S UMA TE RA
-                             -. --                                  Majatrn~~~         ~         ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~gka  ae  Tagal  Pekal-ngen
WI    b.eang Jmng, 
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pi  ik rio 1atregr  Wonosobob
28'                                                                                                                                                                                  Pr*rbn,iaMage
/                                           Couns
PHILIPPINtS
MALAYSIA             B        /UNE                                                         rhIs marp has been ptrParnd by
MALAYSIA  e'                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The World EPank's staff execIoseeia
MAIAYSIA                                                                   tor the croverence of the
'P     Si rN_/                                                                               readers and Is esckasnely to, thri
SAINGAANTAN-                                                                   sternal rse oft Thrr World Bank
I, 51 N ALPOE   KAI sMANCAN                                             esrand the Inlernatonat Frnance
-v                                  SULAWESI                                      t   Corporaho,c  The denomnrpahops
It 1AN  JA YA      ussd and Ihe houndsrnes shown
oen Uis rmins do not *mpty on the
olt of The World Elani and the
Internal,oiist F.nen  Cseporatroa,
~~~~ Art,                                            a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ny ,sdgn,nnt an the legal sataen
,, r.E                                    0O Ony teevtory   nnrfley
enrdorsemrent or acceptance no
sach bourndaar0e3
__ __ _ __ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ ___.  ___..                _ ___                                                                                           1 1013'



IBRD I 753d
INDONESIA                                       JANUARY 198
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
JAWA
PROJECT
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT (PHASE 11
HIGHWAY UPGRADING /REHABILITATION (YEAR 1i
B 8RIDGE REPLACEMENT (PHASE 1)
PREVIOUS PROJECTS                    , CR, 260 IND.
CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENTS iLOAN 1095 N.D
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                LOAN 2649 IND.
PROVINCIAL ROADS
LOCAL ROADS
RAILWAYS
.l     PORTS
__                                                                                  ,Jt;    AIRPORTS
teIn.a                 X                                                                    _._-  PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
I          ,                                                                                 -.ntl,ag  - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Pat, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     -
~~~~~~~~~~6Ia,                               TXa                                                             S um.rop
soia;ga            j                                               --   Srarabay                   MADURA
,I<aolrura   I   aangn'.                          k.Ja   n                       Pwra
(Itrn,,,    '  S,koho,IO  Madruo                '-                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Panaruk.n
KILOMETERS O    2,0  4p0   _j 80
MILES P   10  20  30  40 50
No13-
W_osr                   I _



WBRD 1 753,-
96o 100 tr5M40                                                        rQr a ;Ps.4                                                          J } bUANUARY  1984
,.*rSJffiar4dtflIfIof             S^ t        6A L S IA   I
CO,D~~~JI~ Tn. AnO.I.nn  .   AP1 .
-sendo  flln'apdonoI,Wf - TN                 KALIMANhAN
SNIAWISI1
r~; oSNII                                                          bI .....  n.Y#COD*IMAN JAVAI
Dl;kleleXa z p\2 \M    A   L   A   Y  S    I  A
B..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.'
51. .   czBINTAN
"'NIAS~ ~~~~~~~~~~I ,*T.                   ~    d 
s>.SA~~~~~~~~ M                             A TE    E Rw's \  A   /Q
SIBERUT   3  ~~                     ~7                    ~         -   , ANGIKA
IMPROVEMENIS{LO IRON IWO~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~BL IUN
cONTRICIO AN           AN 123 ND                             |NG  PQRE
INDONVINIAL OD
SUMA---T- RAIWY
H GHWAY POINTS   DING I R                                      l  )
LRVO$PROJINCTALSOUS
55   00      200        300    4~CR 00INs
-ILCONSTRUCTION N  I.P.V..NT50 N 250 NDK 
sRfrIbI rK   . N | A 5            ON1690 5                                                   10D0
-    NVNA HIGWAY</i>S 
---S pVINCA BERUT ' NGKARE
I  I DONTERNATIOA A ONARE                                                                                       J  AY   W   A=/ - -n TlNpd
HIGHWAYR BETRET  PROJC 300                                         '9u>00?                        s
MIE   U M~                I T      2E RADCQU )LC                                    3
DROPOSEe ~     ~        loo PR:CTDtKE \W <                                       X J



A'  THAILAND
LI.~~~~~~~~~~~~-
.,'19  '     ' ' U.                                                                                                                                                     Ill(lIh I
*-            \                          MALAYSIA                                                                                                             BRiJNH                                            (
\   ( t           ih S.lol " z 'c'P 'sJ II
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 k, I( AlA_JIP.IF
,,,,,,                                                                                                                        MALAYSIA    2
JLIr-SINGAPORE                                           "           .
Lsl        X   J~~~~~~~~~~~ g                                                                 (t)~~~~~~-  K_   I      /     /      Wd   /1    4'   /    ,;                1IL'
4     I U                 A           V   I      A        l  IJ I
.,~~~~- 35               K- gz A-A                                                                                  v
J lli,,,IJ,,          84A                               W
K a..a n l7.
LII,                        K,IIab,I,,l,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L VAI
I,,IITII,J         AKA9   Ki lLI" P1f11Th , ,ekJ..  
rO
Nhs  DPo hag b en plep7ror by T'he WorId Gank S SIP# e:c&hs-loy Wo the son-em.lc o/
Ie earie s enr .s -dug-slvy to, the  cmtenl use o/ The Wsbod Bank and It e himralbo-i
F',C. cCorworol  7n 1 Ted ro-ndlhons -d-s    m             -h-yrlbus/.e  .to,l xh,. -p7 donoet
rDPjy on 11e perl o/ rh. Worid fGo7k md the Inle-rne/4 torle / ace Corpadf1ion any Iudgmen
ton 1ego deo s/ lss o enY tmlef   , -lrray oedorsome-t or 8sceptamoc of s uch bounda-ls
ioP                                            IOP('                                           1st                                            II 5 I
--------- -          _~~ ,                                                                      ,



_ __ --; -                                                                           z                           jaIBRD   1753i
INIIDONC SIA
PHILIPPINES  .~- -                                            TRANSPORTATION NETWORK >
/ z                                                                     -   MAJOR ROADS
*  RAILWAYS
PORT S
AIRPOR tS
INTErRNATIONAL SCIJNOARIC,1
<                     ~~~~~~~~H,I I MA H(PAx
S LII A ;i' f SI                  A                                                            , 4I10
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nl,  (    'IAAJ    1,,,-' (A                                                             I :
Iltf   tJ g>f%  F 
MII
vzo>  ISb                        13;3Ce                            13b14



