Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9102
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2404-IND)
OCTOBER 26, 1990
Jperations Division
ent V
ffice
ricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURR-NCY EQUIVALENTS
Annual Average
1983 (Project Appraisal)  US$1.00 = Rp   909
1984 (Board Approval)       US$1.00 = Rp 1,026
1985                        US$1.00 = Rp 1,111
1986                        US$1.00 = Rp 1,283
1987                        US$1.00 = Rp 1,644
1988 (Project Completion) US$1.00 = Rp 1,681
1989 (Final Disbursement) US$1.00 = Rp 1,770
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
DBM       =  Dinas Bina Marga: Provincial Roads Department
DGH       =  Directorate General of Highways
DPUP      =  Provincial Department of Public Works
Genmerri =  Generalized Model for the Evaluation of Rural Roads
Improvements
ITB      =  Institute of Technology at Bandung



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washingion, DC 20433
USA
Ofice cd Dvetot-Cmwal
OpHaIMIn  t vakatmin
October 26, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Indonesia Highway Betterment
Proiect (Loan 2404-IND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Indonesia Highway Betterment Project (Loan
2404-IND)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
.ctachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDONESIA                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONL
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2404-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE ......................................... I ...............                                                   i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..............................................   ii
PART I             PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Project  Identity .....................................                                             1 
2. Project Background ...................................                                               1 
3. Project Objectives and Description ...................    1
4. Project Design and Organization ......................    2
5. Project Implementation ...............................    3
6. Project Results ...................................... S
7. Project Sustainability ...............................                                               6
8.  Bank  Performance .....................................                                             7
9. Borrower Performance .................................    8
10.  Project  Relationship .................................                                              8
11.  Consulting  Services ..................................                                              9
12. Project Documentation and Data .......................    9
PART II :  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Sector Issues ........................................    11
Institutional Issues .................................    12
Project Reporting ............................,i14
Administrative Procedures ...........................                                             15
Civil Works Contracts ................................    16
Consultancy Contracts ................................    18
Project Results and Sustainability ...................    19
Graduate Training                                         ..                                      20
2. Bank Performance .....................................    21
3. Borrower Performance .................................    22
4. Lessons L% .rned ......................................    23
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:  Related Bank Loans and Credit ........................   25
Table  2:    Project  Timetable ....................................                                               26
Tabl.e  3:    Loan  Disbursements ................................ ...                                             27
Table  4:    Project  Implementation ..............................                                                28
Table  5:    Project  Costs  and  Financing ..........................                                             29
Table  6:    Project  Results ......................................                                               30
Table  7:    Status  of  Covenants ..................................                                              31
Table  8:    Use  of  Bank  Resources ................................                                             32
This document has a restricted aistribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDONESIA
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2404-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Highway
Bettermer. Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 2404-IND., in the amount of
US$ 240.; nillion, was approved on April 17, 1984. The Loan was closed on
December 31, 1988 on schedule. It was fully disbursed and the last
disbursement was on August 2, 1989.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the
Country Department V of the Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Part I and Part III). In March 1990, the Borrower was given Parts 1 and III
and requested to prepare Part II but no reply was received.
Preparation of the PCR was based on information contained in the
Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement and a review of information in Bank
files including supervision and progress reports.



INDONESIA
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2404-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Objectives and Design
The project was aimed at continuing the restoration of the country's
basic road networks into a maintainable system, introducing measures to
strengthen the highway institutions at central and provincial government
levels and preparing improvements concerning road user charges and vehicle
weights and dimensions (paras. 2.1, 2.2 and 3.1)
The project's physical component was designed and organized to ensure
that the restoration process was carried out in order of road priorities
established by a rigorous selection method based on criteria and economic
analysis tested in earlier projects and approved by the Bank. The project was
intended to finance a slice of the road development program included in the
Government's fourth five-year development plan (Repelita IV -
1984/85-1988/89). It also included substantial technical innovations
(paras. 4.1-4.4).
The establishment of adequate project implementation arrangemnnts
required Government to clarify the allocation of responsibilities betw-er.
Central and Provincial highway agencies. This was timely, well understood by
Government and achieved early on (para. 4.5). On the contrary, policy
undertakings were not satisfactorilv designed (para. 6.4).
imnlementation Exnerience
On the whole, there were no significant difficulties in proj..t
implementation. However, the focus of both Government and the Bank was mostly
on the project's physical and technical components.
Execution of civil works was timely because well prepared. Bids for
more than half the value of the civil works had been. invited before
negotiations and opened prior to Board Approval. Contracts were signed and
construction began close to schedule. There was a little delay in the
commencement of works for the remainder of tne civil works but, overall, it
did not affect pzoject closure or; December 31, 1988. (para 5.1)
Some procurement problems occurred but remained minor. Although the
bulk of the civil works contracts was awarded after international competitive
bidding, two thirds of the contrarts awarded for road betterment works went to
local contractors, a significant .-. Alt.  All road rehabilitation and
bridgeworks contr?rts were also executed by local contractors. Their



- iii -
performance was mixed but almost all contracts were completed, albeit some
with extended construction periods (paras. 5.2 and 5.3).
Project risks were not great as project selection process had been
established by earlier projects especially the preceding Fifth Highway Project
which had strengthened the highway institutions. The risks were furtheL
diminished by the use of consultants. There is a persistent risk associated
with the use of a iarge number of local contractors and care should be taken
in their prequalification (para. 5.5 and 5.6).
Implementation experience was also satisfactory on the whole
concerning technical and institutional improvements.  Government did not make
a real effort concerning the policy improvements.
Results
The physical targets set at appraisal were largely achieved.
Technical changes were Guccessfully implemented. Significant although
incomplete restults were also achieved concerning institutional objectives.
The initiation of a decentralization process can be credited to the project.
In addition, some success was achieved in improving data collection and
beginning the formulation of a comprehensive highway management system. The
movement made towards restructuring road user charges was not effective and
the establishment and enforcement of vehiclE weights and axle load limits also
posed problems which remained unresolved. These results can be linked quite
clearly to the quality and deficiencies of project design. The project has
also affirmed the increasing viability of the local construction and
consulting industry (paras. 6.1-6.3).
Sustainabilitv
The outlook is good to sustain project benefits. Since 1987/88,
budget allocations for road maintenance have been substantially increased to
cover requirements. Technical and institutional progress have also proven
durable and have often been the basis for further continuous developments
mainly because they corresponded to major concerns of the road authorities and
progress related to the whole sector and not only the project (paras. 7.1 and
7.2).
Findings and Lessons
Bank-financed projects are expected to have fewer problems in the
execution of the physical works involved because of Government familiarity
with and understanding of Bank procurement polices and procedures and an
active local construction and consulting industry. However, even in projects
relatively tree of serious procurement problems, a large part of Bank
supervision time can be expended on administering the project's physical
implementation if there is too much emphasis on routine matters (para. 8.4).
Policy reforms are another matter and the project shows that a ccalstant and
prolonged dialogue has to be well organized and maintained with the
Government. The major lesson learned is that more of supervision time should
be spent on discussing sector issues and monitoring actions taken by
Government to resolve them both within and without the project. Discussions



- iv -
with, Government on sector issues should also be recorded in Bank su'ervision
reports and Aide-Memoires and supervision objectives should shift to improving
transport management and resolving sr!tor issues (pa'ds. 8.1 - 8.5).
Monitoring of physical execution in detail is an impossible task
because of the scatter and size of tne country. This should largely be left
to consultants who should be selectea with great care. Bank's role should be
to supervise the process by selective site visits, reviewing progress reports
from Government and its consultants, and drawing lessons concerning
institutional performance. For this reason, an effective reporting system
should be in place at the start of the project (paras. 8.5 and 12.2).
The project showed that durable progress can be achieved on key
technical and institutional matteLs when improvements are of a sectoral
nature, well understood by the implementing agencies and made part of the
project design (paras. 4.6 and 7.2).
Bank-Borrower relationship wa3 good throughouit the project possibly
due to both parties focusing on physical execution of the project to the
exclusion of hard sector issues. The devolution of highway administration
powers to the provinces signals the need for Bank staff to have direct
relationships with the provincial governments. Bank staff should also be
encouraged to meet with local consultants and contractors to have a better
understanding of their problems (para 10.1).
Finally, the performance of consultants in providing technical
assistance and training was satisfactorv. Both Government and Bank have
continued to underestimate the need for consultants and this project has also
registered a significant increase in consulting services costs. The bright
side is that the increases were in local man months and indicate greater
participation by local consultants in project preparation and execution.
Local consultants costs are much higher than appraisal estimates but some
economy can be achieved if local consultants have a steady volume of work to
enable them to bring their support costs down. In the short term, since local
consultants are employed mostly for routine design and supervision of civil
works, it may not be undesirable to include price in the evaluation of
consultants proposals (para 11.1-11.3).



INDONESIA
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2404-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION PEPORT
Part I: Project Review From Bank's Perspective
1.       Project Identity
Project Name   Highway Betterment Project
Loan No.        2404 - IND
RVP Unit        Asia Region
Country Department V
Country         Indonesia
Sector          Transport
Subsector       Highways
2.       Project Background
2.1      The project was the sixth Bank-financed project to restore
Indonesia's extensive road networks to a maintainable condition after many
years of neglect in the sixties and before. Impetus to the Government's
program of road rehabilitation was given by the boost in oil revenues in 1974
when the Government began to make heavy investments in infrastructure
facilities, including transport, aimed at promoting traditional sectors of the
economy, such as agriculture, and expanding manufacturing.
2.2      The social and economic gains made in the seventies are in part due
to the increased mobility of people and goods in the larger islands and the
better access to remote rural areas brought about by the improvement in road
conditions. Institutional de-elopment and improvements in road transport
sector policies remained a second priority during this period and the early
eighties, however, as was showed by the mixed results achieved in these areas
by the Fifth Highway Project. GOI was nevertheless becomiig increasingly
aware of their importance and needed support to achieve meaAiingful progress,
particularly on the institutional side.
3.       Project Objectives and Description
3.1      Project Objectives.  The project was designed to assist the
Government to pursue its highway development strategy through restoration and
upgrading of the national and provincial road networks. The project's
objectives included improvement in planning procedures and strengthening of
the provinci3l public works agencies to take increasing responsibility for the
construction and maintenance of provincial roads. Thus, the project continued
the process begun in 1980 of devolution to the provinces of some of the
functions of the Directorate General of Highways (DGH), the central government
agency, responsible for the highway system in the country. In addition, the
project aimed at preparing a reform of the structure of road user charges and
effective measures to enforce vehicle weight and axle loai regulations.



3.2      Project Description.  In order to achieve the above objectives the
project provided for :
(i)   the betterment of about 2000 km of intercity national and provincial
roads;
(ii)  the upgrading/rehabilitation of about 1000 'Kn of other key roads;
(iii)  the replacement of about 8000 m of bridges and repair of about
3,200 m of bridges on th.e above and other priority roads;
(iv) the procurement of surface dressing equipment and laboratory
equipment for the design and quality control of hot-mix bituminous
surfacing and natural rock asphalt; and
(v) technical assistance and consulting services for design and
supervision of civil works contracts, improvement of planning
procedures and highway management, training, survey and mapping of
local road building materials and research to improve the production
and quality of natural rock asphalt.
4.       Project Design and Organization
4.1      Project design had its origins in the preceding Fifth Highway Project
(Loan 1696-IND) which had also determirad the methodology for screening and
evaluating priorities for road betterment and rehabilitation. The methodology
had ev'lved over several years and consisted essentially of the processing and
application of field data in three stages. At each stage, road sections were
subject to technical and economic analysis of su- -ssively greater depth
before a final decision was taken on the sections to be included in the work
programs. Road Betterment Offices (RBO), an extension of DGH planning and
engineering department, located in the provinces, prepared initial project
lists based on the`. field observations, road inventory data and most recent
traffic counts. Charts relating expected economic returns to traffic counts
and average betterment costs in different provinces for different road
standards and types were applied to screen out those road sections that did
not yield a minimum of 15 percent economic return. Traffic forecasts then
were made and preliminary engineering carried out on the basis of an
innovative 'fast trade' method and a second evaluation was carried out using
the GENM4ERRI model (Generalized Model for the Evaluation of Rural Road
Improvements) developed in Australia and introduced into Indonesia under the
Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1236-IND). Finally, dei.ailed engineering was
carried out and a final determination made of the economic returns which were
tested for various ranges of uncertainties and risks.
4.2      In effect, a systematic collection of data and analysis of individual
road sections were made and their rationale was understood by all concerned
with project organization and implementation, namely, the planning and opera-
tions departments of DGH, the RBO's, the prcvincial highway divisions (DBMs)
and the supe-rvising consultants. The project continued the application of
concepts originated and tested in earlier projects, particularly, the Fifth
Highway Project. A slight innovation was introduced in that steps were taken
to adapt the GEUMERRI model to Indonesian conditions by calibrating it to
correspond with local experience and data. The objective was to promote the
implementation of a balanced program of road betterment and rehabilitation
which covered not only the heavily trafficked roads around the main cities and
towns but also roads that served less developed parts of the country.



4.3      The project was limited to restoring to a maintainable condition the
existing road networks starting with intercity routes and key roads both
national and provincial. Although there was some heavy construction in
places, road works were confined largely to improving existing roads with no
major changes in alignments. The road betterment works were designed for a 10
year life span in accordance with standards agreed with the Bank (which
included the use of hioh bitumen content, gap-graded, asphaltic concrete
surfacing, a major technical innovation). The project was intended to finance
a slice of the Government's five year program. Its scale was adopted to
enable the Government to reach a target of 80 percent stabilization of the
national and provincial roads network during the fourth five-year development
plan (Repelita IV)(1984/85-.988/89).
4.4      In 1986, however, the Government ran into financial difficulties as a
result of the drop in world oil prices and the considerably reduced reveaues
from oil taxes. The Central Government's budget deficit rose from Rp 2.7
trillion in 1985/1986, to Rp 4.0 trillion in 1986/87 and capital expenditures
were cut drastically. At the Government's request, the Bank agreed to
increase the disbursement percentage applicable to civil works from 63 percent
to 70 percent.
4.5      The project was well prepared with detailed engineering completed and
bids invited for roads representing about half the project costs before loan
negotiations. The purpose and scope of consulting services and technical
assistance were also defined and terms of reference finalized early on to
avoid the problems encountered in the preceding Fifth Project. The delays in
the execution of that project (two years delay in project completion) and
start-up problems with the Jakarta - Cikampek Project (Loan 2049-IND) affected
the project preparation process, however, and loan processing was completed
about nine months later than anticipated.
4.6      The Government had enacted a road law in 1980 setting the frameuork
for the devolution of road administration powers to the provincial departments
of public works CDPUP) At the time of project appraisAl, regulations had not
yet been introduced to implement the law and a degree of uncertainty existed
as to the functions of the DPUP Highway divisions (DBMs). The regulations
were promulgated in 1985 and, broadly speaking, clearly established (i) MPW's
responsibility through DGH for the planning and development of national roads
and roads strategic to national interests and (ii) DPUPs responsibil4ty
through the DBMs for the provincial roads betterment and maintenance programs.
However, it was understood that de facto authority would continue to rest to a
large extent with DGH which provided the necessary technical assistance to the
DBMs particularly through its regional betterment offices (RBOs) and
contributed substantially to the funding of the provincial road programs.
These arrangements proved satisfactory. Their establishment was a success of
the project7    -
5.       Project Implementation
5.1      The Loan Agreement was signed on May 11, 1984 soon after Board
approval and became effective on August 13, 1984. The project start-up was
very successful. The Government initiated procurement very e~3rly. Bids for
the fir3t phase of the betterment works were opened in Apri .984 before Board



approval. Disclosed bid prices were below appraisal estimates. There were
some administrative delays later in the awprd of contracts for the remainder
of the civil works but, overall, there did not have a substantial Lz,pact 3n
the project con.pletion delayF.
5.2      Documentatioi for bidding was generally satisfactory and only minor
delays occurred in procurement. The bulk of the civil works contracts was
awarded following international competitive bidding procedures. Local coin-
petitive bidding procedures were limited to ro-d upgrading rehabilitation
works and bridge repairs and construction of twc bridges in extremely remote
areas. On the whole, procurement arrangements were satisfactory. Contract
packaging was made large enough to attract large foreign contractors while
providing adequate opportunities to lozal coatractors.
5.3       In the event, in all. 51 local contractors (including consortia of
local firms), 11 foreign contractors and 9 joint local/foreign ventures were
prequalified for the civil works. The majority of the civil works contracts,
was executed by local contractors with no foreign contractor successful in
winning a bid for the bridgeworks. Thirty one out of the 45 contracts for
road betterment works were won by local contractors. Only 14 contracts for
civil works wire awarded to foreign or Joint local/foreign contractors. The
totai value of thcse contracts amounted to about Rp 69 billion (US$50
million), represenring about 20 percent of the total value of civil works in
the project.
5.4      The project was implemented substantially as conceived.  There were
minor changes in road priorities but as the project was a slice of the Govern-
ment's five-year development program and project preparation consisted princi-
pally with agreement on selection criterIa, these changes were expected. The
total cost at the close of the project was about US$329.9 million 'ompared to
an appraisal estimate of US$384.'4 nillion. The reduction in total cost in US
Dollars was due to che continued devalua*.ion of the Rupiah from US$1.00 - Rp
1,000 in 1984 to UJS$1.00 = Rp 1,770 in 1989. The Loan balance of about
US$16.7 million was applied lo finance part of the cost of road sections which
were selected with the same criteria and slated for improvement under the
Highway Maintenance and Betterment Project (Loan 2717-lND), approved in 1980.
There was arn important cost ove:run in the consultancy services project
component, however, mainly because actual supervision cost were underestimated
at appraisal.
5.5       Proj ect risks were not great.  The betterment prugram (60 percent of
total project cost) com?rised intercity and key  .ational and provincial roads
whose selection for improvements was agreed with the Bank. Checks for
economic feasibility were made before and after detailed enigineering. The
previous projects h3d strengthened the capacity of DGH to administer the
project and the risks associated with project selection aad execution were
further diminished by the use of consultants. Thz project was a period of
consolidation and adjuscment within the DGH and of efforts to devolve more
responsibilities to the provincial highway departments.
5.6      The fact that most of civil works contracts would be executed by
local -ontractors presented a risk that many contracts would not be completed
with. .. the construction periods stipulated in the contracts. The risk appears



to have not been fully understood at the time of contract awards because 18
out of the 31 contracts awarded to local contractors for the road betterment
works resulted in significant construction delays ranging form 8 percent to
66 percent of the original contract periods. Bank's insistence on invoking
the liquidated damages clause may have compounded local construction industry
problems which are mainly financial and managerial. However, the results
suggest that care should be taken in the prequalification of contractors for
civil works. The project was completed on December 31, 1988, about six months
after the scheduled completion date. The delay reflects the extensions in
construction periods granted to local contractors.
6.       Project Results
6.1      On the whole, the project achieved its physical objectives, was
successful to a substantial extent in its institutional development objectives
but had unsatisfactory results concerning t:he improvement of road transport
policies.
6.2      The physical part of the project accomplished mostly what it set out
to do, namely, the continuation of the process of restoring the national and
provincial road networks to a stable condition that cculd be sustained by
normal maintenance activities. The physical targets, established at
appraisal, were substantially achieved.
6.3      There was also substantial progress on the technical side.  The 'fast
track' design method reduced considerably the unduly long preparation process
of road projects in Indonesia (this project was implemented in four and a half
years whereas previous--smaller--projects had necessitated up to nine years
implementation). The new AC surfacing also proved a major development. The
research carried out by consultants, into the use of naturally occurring rcck
asphalt for pavement overlays, improved the knowledge of this difficult
material and set the stage for the productior Df appropriate standards which
were completed under ;he follow up project.
6.4       Instituticnal and policy objectives were much more difficult to
achieve. Clearly the devolution of increasing implementation responsibilities
to the provincial highways divisions and the clarification of the respective
roles of the central and provincial agencies, which was needed for project
implementation, covenanted, and achieved, was a success. Some success was
also achieved in putting in place systematic procedures to record traffic and
road condition data and beginning to formulate a comprehensive highway
management system for planning, programming and budgeting. However, as
subsequent experience showed, much additional technical assistance remained
necessary in particular to bring systems to a first final stage, to train and
supervise local staff to use the systems effectively, and to ensure that data
collection T'a conducted accurately on a regular basis. Also, the movement
made in the project towards reform of the structure of road uscr charges was
not effective and a new approach has been recently formulated in the Highway
Sector Project. Regulations for enforcement of vehicle weights and axle loads
were introduced by the Government in 1985 but did not prove effective. A
broader approach, which is accompanied by other actions in respect of road
classification, vehicle design, traffic and enforcement measures has been
defined under the Highway Sector Project.



6.5      The project has clearly affirmed the viability of the local
construction industry and experience gained in the project will help local
contractors to improve performance and quality in future works. Participation
by local consultants in providing technical assistance and consulting services
has also increased beyond that estimated at appraisal. The extension of
consulting services was almost entirely local and this has enabled the
increase in consultants costs to be much less than it would have been
otherwise.
6.6      It was not possible to recalculate the economic rate of return of the
civil works financed under the project mainly because Bina Marga has now
abandoned the GENMERRI model and uses a totally different approach to the
programming of its road works based on the Bank's Highway Design Model.
Traffic data have also proven quite unreliable in recent years and would not
be an adequate basis for a meaningful revaluation of project benefits. Since
project costs were lower than estimated at appraisal but traffic growth is
also likely to have been lower until the recent surge in non-oil exports and
rapid GNP growth, economic rates of return are likely to have remained about
the same as estimated at appraisal.
7.       Project Sustainability
7.1      The stability of the improved road sections is dependant on the capa-
city of the Government. inter alia, to allocate sufficient resources to
maintain the roads and employ the necessary skills to improve the quality of
road maintenance. Although maintenance expenditures i.ncreased by about
10 percent per annum during the first three years of the project period
(1984/85 - 1986/87), the amounts were insufficient to maintain adequately the
growing .oad network. Since 1987/88, budget allocations have been
substantially increased and now cover estimated requirements. However, poor
management and inadequate training and skills continue to plague road
maintenance and efforts are being made under ongoing projects to assist with
training ani also to adopt a policy of giving out most of the maintenance
works espe::ially periodic maintenance on contract to the private sector.
While the importance of adequate road maintenance funding is now well
understood by GOI, the quality of implementation can only be expected to
impLove slowly in the near future.
7.2      The technical studies and the institutional development efforts under
the project have contributed well to the improvement of the highway sector in
Indonesia. Although the achievements may appear limited in some instances.
some of today's most significant achievements in planning/programming and
design methodologies can be traced back to the project, which is evidence of
the sustainability of these activities. Most importantly, the
decentralization and clarification of responsibilities achieved at the outset
of the projett remained the basis of implementation arrangements for road
works until 1990 when further (and complementary) decentralization was
implemented. The fact that changes were achieved in the overall institutional
process and not only for the sake of the project's implementation, was key to
the sustainaF lity of this program.



8.       Bar.k Performance
8.1      The Bank's participation in the project was timely in that it
coincided with the start of the implementation of the fourth five-year
national development plan (Repelita IV, 1984/85 - 1988/89). The success of
the project in executing the various civil works programs was in part due to
the agreement on Government expenditure strategy in the sector and the
development during project processing of a plan to which the Government was
committed. However, while it was easy to implement the physical part of the
project, policy reforms hit snags right from the beginning. The fact that the
Bank was not consistent in its prioritization of sector issues and gave
varying emphasis to issues during the project preparation and appraisal period
and the fact that sector issues were seriously discussed with the Government
only at or near appraisal may have contributed to compromises which left both
Bank and Government room to defer taking hard decisions.
8.2      The impression that is created is that the Bank raises policy issues
and -uestions of needed reforms only at or near appraisal. Little time is
ava_.able before negotiations for the Government to act.  For example, the
issue of insufficiency of road user charges was raised in 1978 in connection
with the appraisal of the previous project, the Fifth Highway Project. At t-
decision meeting of that project, it was decided not to inclu.e any Loan
covenant designed to increase diesel fuel prices and taxes on trucks and to
defer discussions on road user charges generally. There is no evidence of
efforts on the part of the Bank to pursue the matter with the Government and
to work together during the project's (as well as the p-evious one's)
implementation period to draw up a detailed action plan to restructure road
user charges and to institute urgently needed reforms.
8.3      During project negotiations, both Bank and Government were forced to
compromise and the Loan agreement required the Government to undertake an
investigation of the impact of existing charges and to present an action plan.
The results of the investigation, which were not closely monitored by the
Bank, were ambiguous and no action plan followed. The issue was left hanging
until the recent Highway Sector Project which sets a target date of 1994
(about 16 years after the issue was first raised with the Government) for ful'
recovery of charges from heavy commercial vehicles with a first stage
adjustment in 1990. During the entire supervision of the project, there is no
record of discussions with the Government on this important issue. Similar
observation could be made for the project's undertaking concerning vehicle
weights and dimensions.
8.4      A large amount of Bank staff time was expended on dealing with pro-
curement matters although, in retrospect, procurement issues were not a
priority. Part of the problem was also the Government making changes to bid
documents (>reviously approved by the Bank) in the second round of bidding for
civil works. A major problem was the Government referring every variation
order in a civil works contract and every modification to a consulting
contract, however minor, to the Bank for its approval. At one point it seemed
that Bank staff was assuming the role of the Engineer or worse still that of
the Resident Engineer. It is quite evident that, even in projects which are
relatively free of serious procurement issues, the routine duties of Bank
staff in respect of procurement matters can occupy a large part of supervision



-8-
time. Instead, emphasis should have been placed on non-routine matters,
i.e., the procurement process of the implementation agencies.
8.5      It is clear from the supervision records that Bank staff devoted most
time in the field to visiting construction sites and discussing construction
problems. Hardly any time was spent on discussing sector issues and
monitoring actions taken by Government to resolve them. The reporting on
institutional achievements appears also quite inadequate. The lessons learned
are that (1) Bank staff sector discussions with Government in the field should
be reflected in the supervision reports and Aide-Memoires and (ii) the
supervision objectives in the field should shift to improving transport
management and resolving sector issues rather than monitoring physical
execution.  The latter is an impossible task to do thoroughly in a country of
the scatter and size of Indonesia and in projects involving a large number of
contracts. It should largely be left to supervising consultants who should be
selected with great care. Improved reporting of project progress by
Government and its consultants should be emphasized and, in the main,
supervision of physical execution should be confined to reviewing these
reports and taking up specific matters with the Government as needed and
selective site visits.
9.       Borrower Performance
9.1      The project continued the work carried out in previous projects to
restore the country's road networks to a stable maintainable condition. In
general, the agencies have been able to improve their performnance continuously
over the project period despite the fact that there were changes in staffing
of key positions and a reorganization of the Government structure had been
going on for some time   The outcome was a relatively smooth project start
with minor procurement problems and satisfactory execution of the civil works
in the project.
9.2      Although the procurement problems were minor, these could have been
avoided and some of Bank's time could have been saved, if only the Government
had not made changes in previously Bank-approved bid documents and made selec-
tive references to the Bank for its clearance of numerous addenda to civil
works and consultants contracts. The Government practice of incorporating
every variation order as a formal addendum to a contract should be discon-
tinued. With regard to sector matters, there was a long delay in Goverrnment
compliance with the Loan covenants relating to road user charges and vehicle
weight and axle load control and no effective steps were taken during the
project period to achieve the sector objectives envisaged by the covenants.
10.      Project Relationship
10.1     Refations between the Bank and Government were always good.
Possibly, this was due to both parties focusing on physical execution of the
project to the exclusion of dealing with hard sector issues. During the
project, the Bank conducted most of its work with central government officials
and foreign consultants. Government policy to give more authority to the
provincial governments signifies a need for Bank staff to deal. directly with
provincial government staff. Equally important is the need for Bank staff to
meet with local consultants and contractors so that a proper assessment of the



quality of their work can be made and problems of the industry can be better
understood. This was not done during the project, mainly because of time
constraints, but should be a focus of attention in the future.
11.      Consulting Services
11.1     Almost all consulting services were provided by joint ventures of
foreign and local consultants. Although key positions and management of the
assignments were largely in the hands of the foreign partners, the project
discloses greater participation by local consultants than under previous Bank-
financed projects. Their performance was satisfactory. However, there is
likely to be a continuing need for foreign consultants to provide specialist
services.
11.2     With regard to graduate training in highway planning and engineering
at the Institute of Technology at Bandung (ITB), it was a setback to sever
relations with University College, London, and to employ a consulting firm to
provide teachers for the extension of the courses. The circumstances sur-
rounding the break with University College are not clear but efforts should be
made by ITB to resume contact with that college or some other higher
educational institution so that a relationship can be maintained with an
academic institution until the courses have become a permanent feature of the
ITB course calendar and local staff can take responsibility for future
development.
11.3     Both Bank and Government have consistently underestimated at
appraisal the need for consultants and this project was no exception in regis-
tering an increase in costs of consulting services during implementation. The
bright side to this is that the increases were in local man months and  ..q:
cates a trend towards greater participation by local consultants in proj,ct
preparation and implementation.
11.4     Local consultants costs were higher than appraisal estimates.  The
costs ran at about US$4000 per man month compared to an appraisal estimate of
US$2500. They include costs of support staff and facilities (office, furni-
ture and equipment), travel and mobilization and demobilization costs, which
total about US$1700 per man month. Costs are high probably because they are
computed on the same basis as for foreign consultants who are assumed to mobi-
lize afresh for each assignment and the employment cf a large office staff.
Some economy can be achieved if local consultants are encouraged to bring down
their support costs by prospects of a steady volume of work. In the short
term, since local consultants are employed mostly for routine design and
supervision of civil works, it may not be undesirable to inc ude price in the
evaluation of consultants proposals for those tasks.
12.      Prjlect-Documentation and Data
12.1     The Staff Appraisal Report contained various indicators against which
project implementation could be measured and a variety of sector data to be
monitored. Unfortunately, full use of the repo t was not made and supervision.
reports could give neither details of project -xecution nor updating of sector
data.  The upshot was that data relevant to t e PCR were not readily available
and an assessment of project results had to await a fresh review at project



10 -
closure. In the absence of detailed Bank supervision reports, the Government
should have been required to submit consolidated project progress reports.
12.2     Unfortunately, there was no agreement with Government on project
reporting requirements. The reports received by the Bank consisted of con-
struction progress reports and other reports prepared by consultants as part
of their service contracts. Thus, project reporting was fragmentary and scat-
tered over a variety of consultants reports. Project monitoring can be a
difficult and daunting task because of the large number of civil works con-
tracts supervised by consultants. Both Bank and Government should have agreed
at negotiations on a simplified format for individual progress reports and the
submission of consolidated project progress reports, preferably, on a
quarterly basis. The consolidated reports should cover not only the execution
of all project components but also compliance with loan covenants and related
sector matters and be prepared by the Government. The task of preparing the
consolidated reports could have been assigned to DGM's Project Coordinator
whose responsibilities were apparently nev r made clear.
12.3     It is worth noting that documentation for the policy undertakings was
inadequate. The Bank attempted to deal with sector issues before an action
plan, which can be incorporated in the Loan agreement and implemented under
the project, was prepared by the Government and agreed with the Bank. Thus,
Section 4.03 (a) of the Loan agreement merely called upon the Government to
formulate an action plan to restructure road user charges in consultations
with the Bank and there was no reference to imp!ementation afterwards. The
plan was finally agreed with the Bank in connection with the appraisal of the
Highway Sector Project in 1989. Section 4.03 (b) required a similar obliga-
tion on the part of the Government in respect of vehicle weights and axle load
control except that the action plan in this case should be satisfactory to the
Bank. Both remain live issues to this day and it is incomprehensible as to
why in one case mere consultation with the Bank was considered adequate and in
the other case Bank had to be satisfied.



- 11 -
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2404-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Part II: Project Review From Borrower's Perspective
Comments on Part I
Sector Issues
1.1       The two main sector issues embodied in the covenants of
the loan agreement for this Sixth Highway Betterment Project,
namely; the restructuring of road user charges with the aim of
gaining full cost recovery from heavy commercial vehicles and the
introduction of effective vehicle weight and axle load
enforcement regulations, were addressed to some degree by the
Govertlnment and an investigation was indeed carried out. However,
DGII as the executing agency for the project on behalf of the
Government recognizes that these two important issues were not
satisfactorily addressed during the project's execution and
measures have now been put i.i hand under the current Highway
Sector Project to correct this situation.



- 12 -
1.2       On reflection of the actual events that have taken
place over the time span of the project, the occurrence of
changed national economic circumstances during this period
necessitated the Government to redirect a large proportion of its
effort into developing measures for a major shift in economic
direction. Although not an excuse for not fully addressing these
two major sector issues, it is fair to say that such a major
effort certainly had an impact on the amount of time allocated to
these items. It must also be remembered that within the
Governmental structure, responsibility for the action of sector
issues of this nature lies with the Directorate General of Land
Communication (DGLC) and that DGH's responsibility as the
national highway authority and the executing agency for this
project is to assist DGLC in the resolution of such issues. In
this situation the fact that the agency responsible for action
was not the executing agency may also have contributed to the
subject not having been adequately addressed.
Institutional Issues
1.3       The Bank's concern over slow overall progress in the
transfer of responsibility for highway administration functions
from DGH to the DRM's is shared by the Government and more
recentLy additiornal effort is being given to this issue in an
attemnpt to speed up the process. From DGH's point of view the
principal problem requiring attention is the level and quality of



- 13 -
trained staff attached to the DBM units. However, it is also
recognized that many structural weaknesses still exist within the
provincial administrations themselves and that this is
undoubtedly having an impact, and will continue to have a
substantial effect for some time to come, on the effectiveness of
the transfer process.
1.4       It must be understood that for a developing nation as
diverse as Indonesia, effective transfer of respGnsibility to
many scattered provinces is a complex issue which will take
considerable effort and realistically cannot easily be achieved
over a short time frame. A mixed success rate can also be
expected between different provinces. Under the Sixth Highway
Betterment Project the mechanisms for transfer were still in
their infancy and were not during that time fully developed.
However, from the experience gained under this project, DGH and,
the Bank have, under the follow on Highway Maintenance and
Betterment Project and the more recent Highway Sector Loan, been
in a better position to give more attention to such institutional
matters with the ultimate aim of increasing the rate and
effectiveness of transfer. With this objective in mind, the
strengthening of the DBM's has also been included as an important
component of recent loan agreements with other agencies providing
funding for the highway sector.



- 14 -
Project Reporting
1.5       Effective project reporting is an important part of any
project and as such DCH recognizes that there was room for
improvement in the style and consistency of the reporting carried
out under the Sixth Highway Betterment Project. Although bi-
monthly executive summary reports for Bank assisted projects were
first introduced during the running of this project, there had
been no agreement prior to the signing of the loan on the
detailed level of reporting that was required. As a consequence
DGH largely agrees with the points noted by the Bank in Section I
of this Project Completion Report.
1.6       Based on the implementation experience of this project,
the subject of reporting in general has received far more
attention in the establishment of subsequent projects and it is,
hoped that under the current Highway Sector Project reports of
good quality and of the agreed format can be consistently
produced for the benefit of both parties. DGH recognizes that if
the desi;'ed level of consistent reporting is achieved, the Bank's
level of supervision of routine matters should be reduced and
that this would allow a greater amount of time to be devoted to
the more important objectives of the project.



- 15 -
Administration Procedures
1.7       DGH is of the belief that tender documents, although
now largely standardized, will continue to be in need of revision
to incorporate changes in governmental regulations with respect
to the procurement of government contracts and to reflect the
improving capability of the local contracting industry within
Indonesia. However, it is anticipated that the amount of change
required will diminish with time.
1.8       The tender documents that were used for phase one of
the civil works programme were put together rather hurriedly in
an initial attempt at some degree :,f standardization between all
of the project specific documentation that had previously been in
use. It was known at the time that further refinement and
improvement to such model standard documents would be required
and DGH made the conscious decision to include the initial
improvements in phase two of the programme, even though a delay
in cummencement of this second phase would inevitably result
whilst Bank approval of the changes was sought. As it transpired
the delay turned out to be relatively short and inconsequential
in terms of the overall project timetable.
1.9       Wit.h respect to tlit- long standing policy of seeking
Bank approval for all  itd. t.he smallest uf variations to civil
works contracts and for alL consultant contract modifications,



- 16 -
DCH is in agreement with the Bank that a considerable emount of
administration time, to the benefit of both parties, can be saved
by relaxing this policy. With this in mind the procedures for
Bank approval of such contract amendments have now been
simplified under the current Project Sector Loan by limiting
submissions to changes in the scope of work and amendments that
effectively change the original economic appraisal by more than
fifteen percent.-
Civil Works Contracts
1.10      DGII concurs with the Bank's comments concerning the
higher risks involved in utilizing local contractors for a
substantial proportion of the civil works programme. However, DGH
is confident that the general standard of local contractors will
improve with time, when given the opportunity to compete, and
therefore con"ders that the additional risks involved will
diminish as the industry generally becomes more financially and
managerially capable. To this end, DGH is going to great lengths
to ensure that prospective contractors are fully aware of t:. eir
obligations and what is expected of them under the civil works
contLacts by standardizing the contract documentation, as far as
is possible, and by giving detailed explanations of the
requirements to all bidders prior to tendering and again .o the
successful contractors at both the time of contract signing and
during the preconstructioui meetings.
1/ Changes in civil works contracts under the Highway Sector
Project are to be made in accordance with an internal Bina
Marga procedure acceptable to the Bank and to be reviewed by
the Bank in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines
(Appendix 1, Section 4) ex-ante for large contracts (over
US$40 million) and ex-post through a random review process
for other contracts.



- 17 -
1.11      Pre-qual.fication procedures have also subsequently
been strengthened during the running of the Highway Maintenance
and Betterment Project in an attempt to minimize the risk of
awarding contracts that have no chance of being successfully
implemented. In this respect DGH are now monitoring the
performance of each contractor operating in the highway sector to
the extent that the original programme pre-qualification ranking
o.f the cuntractors is being updated on a monthly basis. Any
serious performance offenders are to be sanctioned by being
blacklisted for a period of time from receiving any future
contract awards. The actual period of time for which such
blacklisting is to apply will be determined according to the
seriousness of the offense.
1.12      Experience during the Highway Six Betterment Project,
together with other ongoing projects, has shown that DCH has
always had a problem in being able to successfully deal with
contracts that substantially overrun their designated
construction periods or which for- some reason become frustrated.
It is generally believed that one of the principal factors
producing such difficulty is that for a young and, at this time,
relatively weak local contracting industry, the provisions for
forfeiture, which were based on the internationally accepted
FIPEC general conditions of contract, were too harsh and
administratively complex arid therefore difticult to implement.
As a consequerice revised provisions for the determination, rather



- 18 -
than the forfeiture, of delinquent contracts have now been
introduced for use under the Highway Sector Project. With a more
workable termination provision that can be used in cases where
the contractor is in extreme difficulty now installed, the past
restriction of only being able to apply licquiQated damages has
now been improved.
Consultancy Contracts
1.13      In line with the majority of highway sector projects of
this type, the amount and cost of consultancy services required
to satisfactorily achieve the project objectives for the Sixth
Highway Betterment Project were underestimated by both the Bank
and DGH during project appraisal. This was particularly so in the
case of local consulting services. Whilst part of the increased
requirement is due to maintaining construction supervision
services during extended contract periods, DGH agrees with the
Bank's assertion that more consideration should be given at
appraisal stage to the amount of consultancy services that are
realistically required to adequately support the project
objectives. This is particularly true for technical services
contracts that contain a substantial training or technology
transfer component.
1.14      From the point of view of the costing of consultancy
contracts, DH l has recognized tlhat the local consultancy services



- 19 -
provided for this project contained a high level of support staff
and mobilization costs. Consequently, in subsequent projects DGH
has attempted to reduce the cost of these elements by deleting
any unnecessary overlapping responsibilities within, and between,
separate contracts. With respect to the Bank's suggestion to
consider introducing price competition into the evaluation of
local consultants proposals for supervision services, DGH does
not believe this to be a viable consideration at this time as the
local consulting industry is still young and the quality of
service, whichi is not yet of a high standard, will likely suffer.
Project Result ao,: Sustainability
1.15      DGI' is of the sami, opinion as the Bank thit the project
objectives, particularly wi.1 respect to the physical execution
of the civi' works programmE, have largely been met and that in,
general the project executiol has good.
1.16      In terms of the increased level of maintenance required
to ensure that the economic gains resulting from the civil works
programme can bo sustained during the ten year design life cycle,
maintenance has, for the first time, been stressed as one of the
project objectives of the follow on Highway Maintenance and
Betterment Project and has also been included in other similar
projects that are funded by other agerlcies. The overall aim being
to have all natioinal and provincial rot.ds that are already in a



- 20 -
stable condition, and therefore not designated for improvement
works, included in either a routine or a periodic maintenance
programme. However, initial experiences under these follow on
projects has already shown that the planning and execution
requirements for such maintenance programmes, of a scale not
previously carried out in Indonesia, are extremely complex and a
longer learning curve than that originally envisaged may be
required before the maintenance programmes are as effective as
they should be.
Graduate Training
1.17      During the execution of the Sixth Highway Betterment
Project graduate training at the Institute of Technology in
Bandung was carried out in association with University College,
London. However, although the academic quality of the training
programme was considered to be of a high standard, difficulties
were experienced with the level of service provided by the
management of the university and DCH decided to sever the
relationship. As DGH considers this type of programme to be
essential in improving the overall standard of engineering
graduates, an alternative relationship has now been established
with the University of Leeds. With a satisfactory alternative now
in place, there is no intention at this point in time for DGH to
re-establish the relationship with University College.



- 21 -
2         Bank Performance
2.1      In general the Bank's performance over the duration of
the project is considered to have been good and of a helpful
nature to the Borrower. With perhaps the exception of the two
main sector issues which are comprehensively commented upon by
the Bank in Section 8 of Part I of this Project Completion
Report, the Bank staff carried out all of their obligations under
the covenants of the loan agreement in a professional and
effective manner. A genuine effort appeared to have been made by
the Bank to push for improvement in the Borrower's performance,
particularly in areas concerning institutional issues and
administration procedures. The Bank rightly sees these two areas
as being weaknesses on the part of the Borrower.
2.2       Even though Bank staff may have over committed their
time on this project to routine procurement and supervision
matters, their input during field visits into construction
problems is considered to have been of great value to the
Borrower. The importance of this aspect of the Bank's role in the
monitoring of a project should not therefore be underestimated
nor diminished in the planning and preparation of future
projects. It is also fully appreciated that the large scatter of
contracts throughout the country puts a logiFtical limit on the
numbe- of construction sites that may be visited by Bank staff
during any one project. hlowever, it is considered absolutely



- 22 -
essential that the Bank staff continue to inspect actual progress
on site in order that an accurate understanding of the many
problems encountered during physical implementation can be
maintained. If anything, this particular aspect of the Bank's
supervisory role is going to become even more important as the
progressive transfer of administrative responsibility to the
provinces gains momentum.
3         Borrower Performance
3.1        In general the performance of the Borrower showed a
significant improvement over the previous Fifth Highway Sector
Project. This is verified by the fact that the loan disbursements
ran more or less according to the projected disbursement rate
envisaged in the loan agreement and the fact that for the first
time the loan was fully disbursed on schedule. Although the
project got off to a slightly slower start than was desired, the
disbursement rate soon picked up and sustained a sufficient pace
suich that the sluggish start became of no consequence to the
overall schedule.
3.2          A substantial factor in this achievement is
undoubtedly the increasing familiarity and confidence of the
Borvower in the implemnentation of projects of this nature.
However, unlike previous projects the project loan period for the
Sixthi Highway Betterment Project was over a relatively short time



- 23 -
frame of three years and the scope of the project was kept
relatively straightforward. The main emphasis being placed on the
physical implementation of the civil works contracts, the first
phase of which had already been designed and put out to tender
prior to the commencement of the loan. It is this mix of
separating out the design phase into an earlier time frame and
simplifying the project scope by limiting it to simple
implementation programmes over a short time duration that
probably made the biggest contribution to the improved
performance of the Borrower and to the success of the project in
general.
4         Lessons Learned
4.1       The generally successful execution and timely
completion of this project, particularly when compared to the
past performance of previous similar projects, adequately
demonstrates that the project objectives and scope of work must
be clearly thought out and defined, and should, wherever
possible, be based on sound but simple parameters. These factors
need to be embodied without ambiguity in the covenants of the
loan agreement.
4.2       During the implement.ation of the Sixth Highway
Betterment Project, several small items of importance, such as
well definied zeporting procedures and effective administration



- 24 -
procedures for contract amendments, were not adequately addressed
in the loan agreement and as a consequence considerably more
administration and supervision effort was required by both
parties than should have been necessary. These particular items
have subsequently been noted as being in need of more careful
attention and have been addressed in more detail and in better
clarity in the following Highway Maintenance and Betterment
Project.



- 25 -
PART lII.  STATISTICAL INFORMATION
I   R.(.t.d *p,.  Lop..  p,  Cweit.
a~n t                                                                              yea,
Lob'/Cr.it  Ttl. of poject                  (us5  *n)                      Det.o.                                              .*.0 O.*        Stet.0
C,  154-IDO  Fi,et Hl, ghay                      28 0      Highway  -ha iI;tatir .d4  Airt*MnCO                                 1Q69           Co" I *ted
Cr  260-IlO  Sscond H.gh.ay                      34,0      HMMeSy costlution                                                       I           Coolated
C,  388-IhO   Thi,d M',M.e                       14,0      Highway con.trction, amteance. t.si-nqn                              !973           Co"Ieae4
Ind stQJiqa
*n 1236-IhO  Fawth Hi.hJ.a                     130.0       Highway  .ette-.nt, t.chrical aei.tanco                              1976           Coaplatod
and  insti  tiqtn  bi; ing
_  1866-ItO  Fifth High.ay                     123 2       High.jy batte,".t. ,     idae tnIate.m*tt.                           1974           Completed
t.ch-C.l asastance, at~diaa and
inot;t,t;on  bji Id;ng'q
2049-N D   Jska,ta-Cikampeki                 84 0       Tol I read Con.rrction                                              1081           Ongosg
2C83-I O   R.'al Road. De-lopant            100.0       Dist.ct nonda  ..9nonf.0nt and M*;ntonanc.                          1Q82           Co" lted
Snd n-t*twtlon b4 I4inG
*. 2717-ItO   Highacy MaintenanCe              300.0       Hih.ey                  btintennca  baternt and                      1Q86           Ongoing
and 8.ttr.-nt                               ;nat,tot,on  b-1 Idn   ad safety
-, 2881-INO  Second Ro,nl Road.                 140 0      0at-ct  .ad.  .090o.n..nt and  ant.nnc.                              1967           Ongong
Oaneopnent                                  and ,n-t,ttion b,,Id,
3133-;hO  HighMay Secto'                    350 0       Ig.ooning o-en l I effci.mcy  of the  oad                            10Q6          Ongoing
a.naector a U, a package of aol ;cy
rOfoe   c, n    work. .nd t.ch^in;cul aaatanc.



2.  Project Timetable                   26
Date                 Date                 Date
Item                             planned              revised               actual
Identification                    07/82                   -                 10/82
Preparation                       03/83                10/83                12/83/a
Appraisal mission                 04/83                 05/83               05/83
Loan negotiations                 01/84                 02/84              02/24/84
Board approval                    02/84                04/84               04/17/84
Loan signature                      -                     -                05/11/84
Loan effectiveness                06/84                 08/84              08/13/84
Loan closing                     12/31/88                                  12/31/88
Project completion               06/30/88                                   12/88
/a  Cost Estimates and Bid Documents finalized.
Comments:  Preparation for the project consisted mainly of updating road pri-
orities, engineering designs and cost estimates of a road better-
ment/rehabilitation program prepared by the Government, assisted by
consultants financed under the Fifth Highway Project. The issues
raised and emphasis varied over the gestation period of the proj-
ect. In the first and only project brief dated May 10, 1983, the
issues raised concerned: (i) the devolution of highway management
powers to the provincial and district governments: (ii) the
restructuring of the national and provincial road networks to pro-
vide a basic trunk route system for commercial vehicles; and
(iii) a risk that the Gvernment may not be able to provide full
local counterpart funding for a large project. The appraisal
mission issues paper reiterated the concerns for the highway
organization and management under the new road law regarding
decentralization of responsibilities and project financing an!
added the question of adequacy of road user charges and effective-
ness of current collection procedures and minor procurement issues.
There was no mention of vehicle weight and axle load control. The
d1cis-ion memo felt that a smaller project would reduce Bank
influence in the sector and laid down that the issuance of
regulations to implement the new road law and an action plan on
road user charges should be conditions of negotiations. Project
staff continued its dialogue with the Government, raising the issue
of enforcement of vehicle weight and axle load control and
requiring bid prices to be in for the first-year program before
negotiations. Little attention was made to the road transport
industry which was encumbered with practices that distorted
competition and were a charge on public funds. Negotiations went
ahead in February 1984 on the Government giving assurances that it
was moving towards complying with Bank requirements.



- 27 -
3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (USS million)
FY85       FY86      FY87       FY88        FY89
Appraisal estimate                   38.4      110.4      182.4      232.8      240.0
Actual                               12.8       80.1      156.0      210.6      240.0
Actual as I of estimate                33         73         86         90        100
Date of final disbursement           August 2, 1989



- 28 _
4.  Project Implementation
Appraial estimate       Revised estimate               Actual
Start   Complete    Start  Complete           Start       Complete
Ciivil Worka
Road betterment:  Phase I            09/20/84  03/20/87         -        -          10/16/84     12/18/87/
Phase II        03/18/86  09/30/88          -        -         11/18/85    12/31/88/b
Road rehabilitation                  04/01/84  05/31/87         -        -         07/01/84           -
Bridge replacement:  Phase 1         10/31/84  03/31/87         -        -         03/23/86    04/16/88/c
Phase II    04/30/86  10/31/87          -        -          10/31/85    12/29/87/d
Phase III   04/16/86  08/16/86          -        -              -             -
Equipment Procurement                  04/01/&5  08/01/86         -         -         10/17/84/o  04/06/87
Consulting Services
Supervision of civil works           08/18/84  09/30/88         -        -         03/14/86    12/31/88/f
Technical assistance to DPUPs/
DBMs                               09/30/84  09/30/87         -        -         03/14/86    12/31/88/f
Technical assistance to DOH
Planning Directorate               10/31/84  10/31/88         -        -         02/26/86    09/--/88
Technical assistance for mate-
rials survey                      01/01/86  12/31/88          -        -         02/16/88      12/31/88/f
Technical assistance for qual-
ity control                        10/01/84  09/30/88         -        -         08/-/86      07/31/88t2
/a Program subst4ntially completed on 03/20/87.
/b Program substantially completed on 09/30/88.
tc Program substantially completed on 03/31/87.
/d Phase III bridges included in Phase II.
L   Date of signing of contracts.
/f Project closing date.
La Includes study of natural rock ashalt.



- 29 -
Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs (USS million)
Appraisal estimate /a        Actual expenditures
tem                         Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign/b  Total
.vil Works
Road betterment              87.5   131.3   218.8       68.8   127.9       196.7
Road upgrading/rehabili-
tation                     19.6    36.4    56.0       15.0    31.3        46.3
Bridge substructure          17.7    17.7    35.4/c    6.7    17.1          23.8
Subtotal                 124.8   185.4   310.2       90.5   176.3      266.8/d
juipment and materials         9.7    29.5    39.2/e    -         20.9       20.9
?chnical assistance and
consulting services          10.5    24.5    35.0        -       42.2       42.2
Total                    145.0   239.4   384.4       90.5   239.4      329.9
a Includes contingencies and taxes and duties. Estimate taken from
procurement table in appraisal report.
Represent disbursements out of loan proceeds and not actual foreign costs.
Excludes steel superstructures and steel pipe piles.
* Includes some works transferred from Loan 2717-IND.
Includes steel bridge superstructures, pipe culverts and piles.
=mments:  Total project cost, expressed in US dollars, is less than appraisal
estimate because of the devaluation of the Rupiah from US$1.00 =
Rp 1,000 in 1984 to US$1.00 = Rp 1,770 in 1989. All civil works
were executed as planned and, even then, savings of about US$16.7
million accrued to the loan account. The savings were applied to
finance parts of civil works approved under Loan 2717-IND. Con-
sulting services costs are higher than envisaged at appraisal,
principally due to a continuation of technical assistance to the
Road Betterment Offices which were originally scheduled for absorp-
tion into the provincial highway departments and extension of con-
struction periods on some of the civil works contracts (18 out of
the 45 road betterment contracts).



- 30 -
Project Coats and Financing (cont'd)
B. Prolect Financing
Planned
(loan agroement)          Revised estimate               Final
Sourc,                                 USliX                     USt             %          USt          %
IBRD Loan
Civil works                                        63                         70                      70
Bettorment                    104,000,000               104,000,000               127,870,807
Upgrading/r,habilitation       28,000,000                28,000,000                31,277,834
Bridgo substructures           13,000,000                13,000,000                17,116,698
Equipment and materials          34,200,000  100:65/L    34,200,000   100:65/   20,893,600    100
Consulting services              27,700,000       100      27,700,000        100     42,242,782    100
Foo                                 698,604         -         698,604          -         698,604       -
Unallocated                      32,601,496         -      32,601,496          -               -       -
Total                        240,000.000       62      240,000,000        62    240,000.000/b   72
Government Funds
Civil works                     140,900,000        38                -         -     90,000,000       34
Equipment and materials           3,100,000         8                -         -               -       -
Consulting services                        -        -                _-                                -
Total                        144,000,000       38                 -        -      90.000,000      28
/a  100% of foroign expendituros, 100% of local oxpendituros (ex-factory cost) and a5% of local
expenditures of items procured locally.
/b Includoe an adjustment of -USt86.22 to allow for exchango difference between the amount
charged to the loan whon funds were advanced and the advance was documented.
Comments:  Tho disbursoment percentage for civil works was increased on April 1, 1980 from 83% of
total expenditures to 70% to include some local financing to moet shortfalls in budget-
ary alilocations due to a loss in oil revenues.



- 31 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal               Estimate at
Indicators                                         estimate              closing date
Road -etterment                                    2,000 km                   2,192 km
Road rehabilitation                                1,000 km                    n.a. a/
Bridge replacement                                 8,000 m                   8.550 m
Bridge repairs                                     3,200 m                    n.a. a!
Road network in stable condition                       57Z                        442
a/ No details reported in files.
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal               Estimate at
estimate              closing date
ERR (Z)                  ERR (Z)
Road betterment                                    23-122
Road rehabilitation                                  > 15
Bridge replacements                                  > 15
Overall project                                        30                 About same



la*; -    d         Lot t 5'. 3-s.
13Q8"                                                   C     .CffibE   31    B%    Co,   d    t.
;3 03                                                                                                               to,C   ..    ,;- "{    -ca,   .3 *)3   )C d
J t2  EA ow **n: 3'S -    to B-C            .....    .                                             4d    th
No'.~~~~~S
3                             L2 Is. c t -  3-p'e  to ,c         t   Ba"..                                    Co_Ic  . tL
3 3-3|          Zit *o,n    ad  a's a* so  os fo'n  a'o.s   0  gootdsC            N Son                      C.os   sd .00r
_- 3  4t7         a   a.'tco  n   "a"c.d  O  .0a"
3 3(e)        .' to, t.Ba.  s-oc..          0 .'  nnrac   con -0 N-n             C.  .cst
sIt:, aS -.oaoso *L  n.   a                                                                                  LI
3,. w4a  aOe 'S.nnA .o.   a'.' .nt oo  to' -ed                              o.-. adat
,^ 3 ~~OOoNt  '9  4o..0  acCeoow-ss ........... to  it-na   ta.^ 1  t0oo-  ate Oc d**
sno at o 'ac 0 at 5hO '0tec 's,,a t'.c-o At C
n" 3  4(c)    Coo..' act. to BascC         0atas  .t   noaB'                      sto    at'd                C.       ct
-- 1 : .f!to, as ,.......  *a^ nontntct  aa... cw.  at ono   as. and- 'owtrt o'-  a o.d
cont'.n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t 0& a- nopto        r3  e0>   s.
to sot aC a'aaa'ate 0"       to :Bas cs 5a-4a
111   O~ b                 Ssi^-I         Ot _  t too-a  ast
3 35              .sa"o  50.  a t o' .'n          ona                                40saa'                     Cosa  t-C o* a  tO
3 36           A      A-gsa-se-tn~&t onnoso_dt  "a fo' soao-aA                     *.g.a&t 31   135           * tso-aOo'o  fan    to tsa  5a*. 9'' Fta d         ;    -
ts..s-aasatt-.  --at  :.  ''c.c    ,' at. ^Cn; *  "ttr. t.ta w tt to  *-ta t   t3-   r- -'-                                                             -
8or ,wg                                                                                         o&ttons   0o'OO'5    'to   t- '59s *  C    C ^"
to Co^at'_ct 55'oaNsn t& :a       t   o^'.  Ca.os -    " 
'a o1t ass" SonO
3~ 37               . s    o-.s-o  so s.0cn50"sncc'As'acwt'                          *s,ns                       OCs  ad .a
too go at a^ts en d soan n e t ct sat a'ntC-CO'
74 (3.           5Osc.  lo-n,-~t-t  o sa-.cn'ttrnaat    s o-                        s..rs oOs- _OC                        .  to
an.'c-t  4: a-oct nas
~     -- a    s : *: "a -totssa-a en   -t  o'              a-a-   t-  s.               -t    o- osa                cnos  scat.'
-c -X ja    ttaoa.oeto .3  ncs-A  t. :-* s      A-ta-             e" st-can,*t
233  83)
4 -2c <         DO  oc   oA  tO                                                    Oo'n  31 a'ne   n           aOO-  a . oots   do a.   "05   a  .  o   -
b . . O^: *                                                            *a: Oft S a^~~~~e""    .-   t0 'ao, 't. '&    s    ' dgf 
ant o" ~~~~~~~~~                                                       an~~t. a s-tn to ;.0  nA  *; *a ne-Bce. -5
K= ,nocs   A-oaAansn,-ts  cat  - D 
-tog..- I.,  ...n...oosaca
Ostagat bo' ':   'onna o   O^* ncso'  0  - e s 0
; n t'A-r1334    _*t**t-*       eo*e   
as 31  1384     Coo    a  a ta
Lt 's   nn - .ns,   Sato'I .         -.t. te....-
aAd - - -otdc a t  not on -yat
-  4 34             5..  ,  'o       5 -  toN   c'a    a a a'sn t -cad anc t to       -C-s ' -    1384            Coos  d . th or 00, 31,  35   EIs. .:t..-.,,-.'
a  ont  N        , se_ aot-            .a 5   t at to                                          t o.        'cat o   O "tops-. |t  0    -na..         - 
tta  '0  0.    as af    c  f gt.a't.nt                                                        staff tntonsk of acaA  Osto    sat :a
'os-nn a- enCd c-o' at 0-a*$ 
* zs           *'o.'   on cf a   'so ns fwc    o- tna wesao  of tot                on's                       "'-  Goss'-o.' o g  so       h a0 to-'-,  to --s, 05t5-
a-' ant'o  As4  5,0  ?' Ags gO  00 "9 C 5   a-o                                                "na^c    " trs a  onat on of .'_    anA  otoc-:
e'd  to_na''7  on tsaNtsnoNca^ acnoAantt                                                       '50o'.'t     O 'nss'"  Owtt t.t 05 OoS 000B   as 
a Oa'otJats  taCG 0'  'P end V Non.' 01 at a'te'A                                            Of e dsq0aO   as    a a d  'a^a te"fsntoj  sc-s o--a
Ot - 0 as tt-t       q-   -   s^-.:



- 33 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staff-weeks)
Stage  of project  cycle                                 Planned                Revised                Final
Through  appraisal                                                                                     86.55
Appraisal  through  Board  approval                                                                    93.67
Board  approval  through  loan
effectiveness
Supervision                                                                                            78.49
Total
Comments: Planned staff inputs are not available. Revised staff inputs are
availabe only from FY/1988
B. Missions
No. of   Days in   Specialization   Performance   Type of
Stage of proj-ct cycle         Month/year  persons  field /a  represented /b  rating status  problems
ThroughApraisal
Identifica ~tioW                08/82         2         7              E,H               -              -
Preparation                      10/82        2         7              E,H               -              -
Preappraisal                    02/83         2        21              E,H               -              -
Appraisal                       05/83         4        21            E,2H,F              -              -
Appraisal Through Board
Approval
Postappraiaal 1                 09/83         1         7               E                -              -
Postapproisal II                 11/83        1         7               E                -              -
Postapproisal III               02/84         2         7              E,H               -              -
Board Ap roval Through
?Tf.ctiveness                   05/84         1         7               H                1/c
ris!on                            10/84        1         7               H                1
II                              02/85         1         7               H                1
III                             02/86         1         7               H            n.a. d
IV                              05/86         3         7            E,H,F               1             -
V                               09/86                  12              SE             n.s.              -
VI                               10/88        3         7             E,2H               1              -
VII          -                  02/87         3         7             E,2H               1              -
VIII                            07/87         1        10               H                1              -
IX                              11/87         1         7               H                1             -
X                               05/88         1         7               H                1              -
/a Days in field do not include time spent on other assignments.
E = Economist, F = Fina,icial Analyst, H = Highway Engineer, SE = Specialist Engineer.
A full supervision report was made.
B back-to-Office Report only.



