Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FLE COPY
Report No. P-3757-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEV-
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
-ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$240.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
March 23, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
Rp 1,000     = US$1.00
Rp 1 million = US$1,000
INDONESIAN FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AMC               -  Asphalt Mixing Center
Asbuton           -  Natural rock asphalt mined on Buton Island
Cipta Karya       -  Directorate General of Housing, Building, Planning and
Urban Development
DBM               -  Dinas Bina Marga (provincial highway administration)
DGH               -  Directorate General of Highways
DPUJK             -  District and Incorporated Municipality Public Works
Department
DPUE'             -  Provincial Public Works Department
GOI               -  Government of Indonesia
HRS               -  Hot Rolled Sheet
ICB               -  International Competitive Bidding
LCB               -  Local Competitive Bidding
MOC               -  Ministry of Communications
MPW               -  Ministry of Public Works
Repelita          -  National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74,
Repelita II, 1974-79, Repelita III, 1979-84,
Repelita IV, 1984-89)
RBO               -  Regional Betterment Office



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Republic of Indonesia
Amount:          US$240 million equivalent (including capitalized front-end
fee)
Terms:           Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable rate
Project
Description:  The project would (a) restore and upgrade parts of the
existing national and provincial roads network and its
bridges; (b) improve highway planning and management; and (c)
increase road user contributions to highway construction and
maintenance.  As part of Indonesia's road program under the
Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (1984-89) the project would
provide for betterment and upgrading of some 3,000 km of roads
and 3,200 m of bridges and replacement of some 8,000 m of
bridges. Equipment would be provided for surface dressing
operations to improve the efficiency of road maintenance in
fourteen provinces, for design and quality control of hot-mix
bituminous surfacings, and for quality control of the natural
rock asphalt (asbuton) used in road construction and
maintenance. The project also includes components for
consultancy and technical assistance services, and training.
The project would provide substantial economic benefits to
large areas of the country, improved capacity for planning,
construction and maintenance of highways as well as assistance
in decentralizing those functions. There are no unusual
technical or other risks associated with this project.
This document has a restricted distributio and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otbrwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Project: Costsw
Local   Foreign   Total
'::=  (US$ million) 
Betterment of trunk routes                             64.0      96.0    160.0
Upgrading of key roads                                 15.0      28.0      43.0
Bridge -re-olaceznent                                  14.6      41.4      56.0
Equipment                                               0.2       3.8       4.0
Consultancy services and tcechnical assistance          8.4      19.3      27.7
Base Costs (early-1.984 prices)                  102.2    188.5    290.7
2ontingencies
Phys ,ica                                         10.1      18.4      28.5
Price                                             32.7      32.5      65.2
Total Project Cost                             145.0 /a 239.4    384.4 Ia
Frot-end fee on Bank loan                          -        0.6       0.6
Total Financing Required                       145.0    240.0    385.0
flinancing Plan
IBRD                                       -      240.0    240.0
Government                              145.0        -      145.0
Total Financing Provided                       145.0    240.0    385.0
Estimated
Disbursements:    Bank FY            1985      1986       1987       1988    1989
…(US$ million) 
Annual            38.4      72.0       72.0       50.4      7.2
Cumulative       38.4    110.4        182.4      232.8   240.0
Rate of Return:    Over 30%
Staff Appraisal
1e1=rt:            No. 4804-IND, dated March 23, 1984
/a    Including approximately US$10 million in taxes on civil works and
consultancy services.



REPORT AND RECONI4ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR A HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
1.        T submit the following report and recommendatioin on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$240.0 million (including
the capitalized front-end fee) to help finance a Highway Betterment Project.
The loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I'
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, entitled "Indonesia:  Policies for Growth with Lower Oil Prices'
(No. 4279-IND dated May 12, 1983) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 17, 1983. Annex I gives selected social and economic indicators for
the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two
million sq km. It now has a population of over 150 million, growing at about
2.2% p.a., and is the world's fiflh most populous nation. The country has a
diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, signifi-
cant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of
agricultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these
primary resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java, which has areas
with some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a
quarter of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban
population growth is about 4% p.a. The 1982 estimate of GNP pe5,capita is
US$580, which places Indonesia amongst middle income countries.-
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Second
Provincial Irrigation Development Project (No. P-3700-IND), circulated
under cover of R83-378, dated December 20, 1983, and approved by the
Executive Directors on January .0, 1984e
2/   On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



- 2 -
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for over
a decade. This was associated with rapid increases in public expenditures,
total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in the
period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-60s. The Government took
effective action to restore macroeconomic stability, liberalize the economy,
rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives for domestic and foreign
private investment. However, for the last decade the dominant external
influence has been the huge expansion, and significant variability, in foreign
exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the oil and gas sector rose from
US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to US$10.8 billion in 1980/81, when the current
account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil receipts also provide about
70% of Central Government receipts and have helped finance the sustained
increase in demand via the budget. The pattern of expenditures has also
helped foster diversified growth: of particular note has been the support for
agriculture, through investment in infrastructure, support services and
effective use of subsidies to maintain producer incentives. This supported an
agricultural growth rate of almost 4% per annum over the past decade, and
movement towards self-sufficiency in rice. During 1971 to 1981 manufacturing
has also enjoyed a high growth rate (of about 14% p.a.) from a very low base,
but this has been predominantly oriented toward the protected domestic market.
5.        Since 1981, the macroeconomic resource position has changed dra-
matically. Depressed international markets and the decline in both volume and
price of oil exports have led to a turnaround in the current account of about
US$10 billion in two years, with a deficit of almost US$7 billion in 1982/83,
equivalent to about 8% of GNP, a level that could not be sustained for more
than a year or two. The Government responded swiftly and effectively to the
worsened resource situation, and, during the first half of 1983, introduced a
cow--ehensive package of policy measures to reduce the current account
def1  t.  First, in January 1983, an austere 1983/84 budget was introduced,
that incorporated a sharp reduction in subsidies on oil, fertilizer and food,
and a squeeze on current expenditures. Second, on March 30, 1983, the Rupiah
was devalued by 28% from Rp 703 to Rp 970 to the US dollar, without changing
the full convertibility of the currency. This was, in part, in response to
the substantial private sector capital outflow over the previous months.
Third, in May, a major rephasing of public investment was announced, in
particular of large-scale import-intensive projects in the industrial,
electric power and transport sectors. These measures have already ensured the
effective management of the short-run foreign exchange position and should
reduce the current account deficits to sustainable levels over the next two to
three years. A current account deficit of about US$5 billion is now projected
for 1983/84. The 1984/85 budget, announced in January 1984, maintains a
fairly conservative macroeconomic stance. There is a small real increase in
overall expenditures, much of it due to a 15% increase in civil service
salaries (after over two years of real decline). Fuel prices were raised by
an average of 35%, with much larger increases on relatively subsidized
fuels. Development spending is budgeted to remain about constant in real
terms. As a consequence of the changed resource position, growth was low in
1982 and 1983.



-3-
Policy for Medium-Term Growth
6.        While a reduction in growth is unavoidable in the short-run period
of reduction in the current account deficit, it is essential that growth rates
be restored in the medium term: a rate of growth of the order of 5% per annum
is probably necessary to have a significant impact on employment creation and
poverty alleviation in the 1980s. This will require the diversification of
the economy away from its present dependence on oil, for both foreign -exchange
earnings and domestic savings.
7.        The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has already taken major policy
initiatives to mobilize domestic resources. This involves both the increased
mobilization of private savings, especially of the household sector, through
the financial system, and the diversification of sources of public finance
away from oil exports. With respect to the former, the Government introduced
a major financial reform on June 1, 1983, that includes a significant
deregulation of deposit and lending interest rates, the reduction in
subsidized refinancing facilities from the central bank and the removal of all
credit ceilings. In addition to encouraging deposit mobilization, this should
also lead to increased efficiency of resource use. There have also been major
changes in the area of public finance. After increases over the last three
years, fuel prices are now close to international levels, food subsidies have
been eliminated, and a major simplification of the tax system has recently
been signed into law.
8.        The development of additional foreign exchange earnings from the
non-oil economy will be highly dependent on the policy environment for the
manufacturing sector. In the 1970s, rapid growth in output of manufactures
occurred in response to buoyant domestic demand, supported by a protective
trade regime and closely regulated investment licensing system. As a conse-
quence, the sector is almost entirely oriented toward domestic sales, and
major parts of it suffer from significant inefficiencies, by international
standards. In the future, a higher share of output will have to be allocated
to exports if growth is to be maintained, especially in the relatively labor-
intensive consumer goods industries, as well as to continued import replace-
ment. This will require measures to improve the overall efficiency of the
sector, through policy development on the trade regime and regulatory frame-
work, backed by adjustment strategies for existing industries and specific
export promotion policies. The Government has already introduced a range of
export promotion measures intended to reduce the existing import substitution
bias in the economy, ensure ready access to finance for exporters, raise
product quality and improve marketing capacity. In August, 1983 it was
further announced that there would be a major overhaul in the regulatory
framework for private investment, with the objective of simplifying and
streamlining the licensing system.
9.        Agriculture will also continue to be of great importance for export
revenue (accounting for almost 75% of 1980 non-oil exports), food production
and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to an estimated
total of 23.2 million tons in 1982, compared with 13 million tons a decade
earlier. This achievement is largely a result of the rehabilitation and
expansion of irrigation systems, the dissemination of new agricultural



-4-
technology, and widespread access to seeds and fertilizers. Future investment
in physical infrastructure, in irrigation and rural roads, combined with a
favorable market environment and good support services will be the main
determinants of further expansion in food production. In the past, tree crops
have suffered from relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is now
very old. However, the GOI has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation
and replanting, necessitating substantial investment in manpower and improved
organization of distribution and marketing. Transmigration remains a high
priority program for promoting development in underpopulated regions,
providing opportunities for landless families on Java, Bali, and Lombok, and
relieving economic and environmental pressures on those densely populated
islands.
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
10.       Despite the high concentration of the resource windfalls, the
available evidence from household expenditures surveys indicates a fairly wide
distribution of the benefits of growth in the past ten years or so. Per
capita consumption of the bottom 40% in the expenditure distribution is
estimated to have increased by 2.4% per annum between 1970 and 1980. These
gains are also borne out in the basic health indicators, with a 25% reduction
in ile infant mortality rate and an increase in life expectancy from 47 to
53.2J These improvements should not, however, mask the continued existence of
widespread poverty. Almost 40% of the population are estimated to have been
in this condition in 1980. The core of the poverty problem continues to be in
rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and possibly rising, frac-
tion of the population, and where, for most of the 1970s, there is little
evidenice of any rise in real agricultural wages. However, in the 1979-81
period, bumper rice harvests appear to have led to improvements in wages and
incomes in Java, while agricultural incomes on parts of the Other Islands
dependent on export crops declined in the face of the international reces-
sion. Following the devaluation this situation will likely reverse. Export
incomes should rise, backed by the international recovery, but real incomes in
Java c:ould be adversely affected.
11.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of the distribution of income. The labor force will grow at
about 2.6% p.a., equivalent to around 1.5 million people p.a., in the next
decade. In 1980 agriculture still accounted for 55% of employment, and
industry only 13%; the growth of services employment, from 24% of the total in
1971 to 32% in 1980, was the ma:Ln mechanism for providing incremental employ-
ment in the 1970s. The growth in service incomes was partly sustained by
rising oil incomes in the 1970s; and it is unlikeLy that this pattern of
growth will be repeated in the f-uture. If an adequate growth in labor demand
is to be achieved, it will be necessary to adopt policies specifically
oriented toward employment creation, in addition to restoring overall
growth.  In the short-run, the maintenance of emp]oyment-intensive public
works activities can make a significant contribution.
3/ On the basis of the 1971 and 1980 population censuses.



- 5 -
12.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achielved and the enrollment rate in junior
secondary schools is now 35%. However, the weak educational base of the
population continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and
a substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be
necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole
system. In the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities,
notably at the sub-district level, but continued expansion and an improvement
in quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be
complemented by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the
improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity in the 1970s is to be
maintained.  Currently, o!,y 18% of the rural and 40% of the urban population
have access to safe water-  compared with Government targets of 60% and 75%,
respectively, for 1990.
External Capital Flows
13.       Even with the comprehensive program of domestic adjustment policies
outlined above, Indonesia will continue to require external capital inflows.
Indeed, during the short-run adjustment period, the maintenance of significant
net inflows will be essential if the adjustment policies are to be smoothly
implemented and without excessive cost to current incomes and the development
process. In 1982/83 the Government was able to use past financial asset
accumulation to help finance the deficit: official reserves declined by
US$3.3 billion and foreign assets of the commercial banks by an additional
US$0.9 billion. Wnile the reserve cover is still adequate, the scope for
additional drawdown is limited and the bulk of the finance of future deficits
will have to come from medium- and long-term public borrowing. New commit-
ments of the order of US$4-5 billion per annum will continue to be required
over the next few years to finance the projected deficits during the adjust-
ment period. It is reasonable to expect that at least 40% will come from
official development assistance (ODA) - at the June 1983 meeting of the Inter-
Governmental Group on Indonesia the donors pledged over US$2.2 billion for
1983/84 - with the remainder from borrowings in the financial markets and
continued use of official and private export credits.
14.       Total public debt outstanding at end-1982 was US$18.3 billion, with
an additional US$12 billion of undisbursed commitments. The debt profile is
excellent, with ODA accounting for 54% of the total and no short-term debt;
the average maturity of new commil:ments was 15 years in 1982.  The debt
service ratio rose to 22% of expor-ts, with the oil sector on a net basis, in
1982/83, and is likely to rise somewhat further in 1983/84 and settle at about
25% in the mid-1980s. This is largely a consequence of the decline in antici-
pated export earnings rather than increased borrowing. This debt burden is
high by Indonesia's past standards, but remains within the limits of prudent
debt management. Backed by the eEfective program of domestic adjustment,
Indonesia should be in a position to raise the required external finance
without undue difficulty.
4/   Government estimates for 1981.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA-!/
15.       As of September 30, 1983, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling US$931.8 million, and 82 Bank loans amounting to US$6,127.5
million. IFC investments totalled US$136.8 million. The share of the Bank
Group in Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of
1982 was 13.3%, and the share of debt service, 7.9% compared with 11.2% and
7.6% respectively in 1981. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank
loans and IFC investments as of September 30, 1SI83. Given the critical
importance of agriculture (including transmigration) for employment, food
security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group supported projects has been
in this sector. In addition, loans and credits have been extended to
virtually all other sectors of the economy, including transportation,
education, urban development, water supply, rural development, nutrition,
industrial development financing (including small-scale industry), power,
telecommunications, population and technical assistance.
16.       During Repelitas 1 (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expan-
sion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also
given to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed
for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III (1979-84),
published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which
was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required
greater attention to employment: generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities.
17.       Because the country has moved from a position of resource surplus to
deficit, as discussed in Part ]:, the development momentum will in all
likelihood decelerate in the short run. To minimize this adverse impact will
require effective policy reform to improve the environment for private
investment and to mobilize additional domestic resources so that investments
in industry, infrastructure, tree crop development and human resources
development can continue. The Bank's program of lending and economic work is
being geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of Bank
involvement will be on policy and institutional development and technical
assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration between
sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of lending to the subsector
and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this level. In
5/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Second
P'rovincial Irrigation Development Project (No. P-3700-IND), circulated
under cover of R83-378, dated December 20, 1983, and approved by the
Executive Directors on January 10, 1984.



addition, in order to ease the Government's current resource constraint and
maintain the pace of project implementation in priority areas, we have taken
steps, under the Special Assistance Program, to accelerate disbursements in 17
ongoing projects in the treecrops and irrigation sectors and one project each
in the energy and transport sectors. The only significant shift anticipated
in the composition of lending involves a rapid expansion planned in the
education sector, a direct response to the severe shortage of skilled
manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth sector work is focused on a
policy to promote industrialization which will build on Indonesia's
comparative advantage in labor- and resource-intensive industries. This
analysis may lead to a series of industrial projects which would facilitate
sectoral reform. In energy, sector work and continued lending is
concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base, rationalize
pricing and improve sectoral planning. Irrigation and tree crops will
continue to absorb a substantial portion of lending in view of the importance
of these sectors, and continued support for transport is anticipated.
Continued lending in the areas of provision of social services, in population,
health and nutrition, urban development and water supply will increasingly
emphasize institutional support and the development of innovative low-cost
solutions.
18 ,      The last few years have seen major improvements in the disbursement
ratio-/ from a low of 13% in FY80, to 18% in FY83. The poor FY80 ratio was in
large part merely a result of the rapid increase in commitments during the
FY77-79 period when total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia increased by 122%
compared to a Bank wide increase of 83%. However, it also reflected implemen-
tation difficulties arising out of GOI's budgetary, procurement and payment
procedures, including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of
credit. The severe shortage of managerial and technical manpower of course
compounds the problem. A number of steps have been taken by GOI and the Bank
to address these issues. Several special Bank missions have visited Indonesia
to analyze the problems and make recommendations for simplifying budgetary and
financial procedures. The GOI and the Bank have also instituted formal and
regular joint review procedures to identify general and project specific
problems and work out corrective measures. In addition, procurement seminars
were held in Jakarta in September 1979 and November 1981. As a consequence of
these joint initiatives, GOI has taken measures to streamline some of the
complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implementation.
In addition, the Bank is helping the GOI in a special effort to identify
problems in the construction industry with a view to developing appropriate
remedial actions and policies.  Weaknesses in the domestic contracting
industry have been identified as one of the major causes of implementation
problems in Indonesia. Finally, to reduce initial project implementation
difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board consideration
at a later stage in the project cycle. As a result of these efforts, improve-
ments are taking place. This was reflected in an increase in disbursements
from US$204.0 million in FY79 to US$582.8 million in FY83. It is nevertheless
important that the Bank and GOI maintain their efforts.
6/   The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbursed amount at t'he beginning of the fiscal year.



8-
1'3.      From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity
and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent lending
has been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being
justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well below
the IDA cutoff of US$625. Given Indonesia's much improved creditworthiness,
IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
20.       The proposed project constitutes the fifth lending operation pre-
setnted to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Projects at an advanced
stage of preparation and appraisal include the Second Swamp Reclamation, Fifth
Urban, Fourteenth Power and Third Small Enterprise Development Projects.
PART III - THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
General
21.       Within the Indonesian transport system road transport is the princi-
pal mode. About 90% of all goods and more thcan 95% of all passengers trans-
ported in Indonesia go by road. The road network expanded from 85,000 km to
148,000 km between 1971 and 1983, while the arnual growth of road vehicles was
25-30% for commercial vehicles, 13% for cars and above 20% for motorcycles.
In 1982 there were about 4.6 million motor vehicles on Indonesia's roads.
22.       Maritime transport, although a distant second to roads in the
overall transport picture, is very important in inter-island transport,
handling about 95% of all freight movements and roughly 75% of all passenger
travel among the islands. Indonesia has inherited an extensive railway system
from pre-independence days, comprising some 5,500 route-km and covering all of
Java and parts of Sumatra. As elsewhere in the world, the Indonesian State
Railways have experienced a significant decline in traffic during the 1970s.
On the other hand, domestic air transport increased rapidly during the 1970s;
the average annual growth rate for passenger traffic was 22% and the volume of
cargo carried in 1980 was seven times higher than in 1970.
TraLnsport Development Programs and Financing
23.       In 1969, GOI initiated its first Five-Year National Development
Plan, Repelita I, covering the period through March, 1974. About 15% of the
Repelita I investment total was allocated to the transport sector, represent-
ing Rp 342 billion. Only Rp 297 billion was actually spent, and roughly 55%
of this was on road development. Repelita II, spanning the period between
1974 and 1979, initially provided Rp 500 billion to the transport sector,
which constituted 16% of the total development outlays; Rp 753 billion was
actually spent. This sizeable increase was due to the extra revenue accruing
to GOI after the 1973 oil price increase. Road development accounted for
about 42% of all outlays in the transport sector during Repelita II. GOI's
policy for the sector during the period 1969-79 emphasized rehabilitation and
improvement of existing transport infrastructure and services rather than
exteansion of the network and expansion of services.



- 9 -
24.       Repelita III, covering the period between 1979 and 1984, provided
Rp 2,998 billion (about 14% of the itotal plan budget) for transport
development, with road infrastructure getting more than half of the
allocation. The increased share for roads over Repelita II is partly attri-
butable to GOI's new emphasis on rural roads as an explicit component of its
rural development strategy. In drawing up the fourth Five-Year Development
Plan, Repelita IV, covering 1984-1989, GOI institutions have had to address
the problems associated with reduced foreign exchange earnings and increas-
ingly severe budget limitations. Several downward revisions of early plan
drafts have already taken place. The performance in the last two years of
Repelita III has also been influenced by fiscal constraints.
Sector Management
25.       Three government agencies have primary responsibility for developing
the transport system and overseeing its operations. The Ministry of
Communications (MOC) plans, regulates and controls all transport modes.
Detailed planning for highways is under the Ministry of Public Works (MPW),
through its Directorate General of Highways (DGH). The National Development
Planning Board reviews sectoral investment plans drawn up by MOC and MPW and
approves, jointly with the Ministry, of Finance, investment plans under the
development budget. MPW's organization is replicated at the provincial and
district levels by integrated public works organizations, which report
directly to the chiefs of the provincial and district governments, which in
turn are under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Home Affairs.
26.       The regulatory framework which governs the transport sector has been
a major impediment to the evolution of an efficient system. GOI's pricing and
taxation policies in the sector have not only generated substantial subsidy
requirements (see paragraph 27 below) but also caused further distortions in
the provision of transport services. Under the recently initiated land and
transport development programs, the Bank is helping MOC to address these
issues and to draw up an action plan for required regulatory reform, with
technical assistance financed under the National Fertilizer Distribution
Project (Loan 2120-IND).
Sector Financing
27.       Of considerable burden to the Government's finances have been the
costs of various subsidy schemes in the transport sector which have been
devised over time to offset apparent inequities and also to cover the
difference between the costs and revenues of state transport corporations.
The aggregate of all direct and indirect cash subsidies in the transport
sector amounted to Rp 821 billion in 1980 (roughly 2% of GDP).  There were
also substantial indirect noncash subsidies; for petroleum derivatives used in
the transport sector alone (which were priced below ruling international
prices), they were Rp 750 billion in 1980. But in early 1982 and again in
early 1983 and 1984, GOI increased the prices of fuel considerably. Today the
prices of gasoline and diesel are above world market prices. As a result,
there are no longer any indirect noncash subsidies for petroleum derivatives
used in the transport sector.



- 10 -
28.       However, many transport-related taxes had not been adjusted in line
with price movements and with GOI's explicit economic, social and fiscal
policies, and technology changes in the sector. As a result, existing taxes
have often promoted non-optimal transport arrangements and contributed to
government revenues in a mtuch more modest way than they potentially could.
Recent changes in Indonesia's tax laws may have improved this situation
somewhat; however the incidence and impact of these changes are not yet
c:Lear.  There is an urgent need to review all taxes in the transport sector to
determine their effectiveness in contributing to GOI's economic, social and
fiscal policies; substantial elements of the transport taxation system may
have to be restructured.  During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
GOI that by April 1, 1985, as part of its Land Transportation Development
Program, it will evaluate the impact of recent tax law changes on road user
charges and, subsequently, promptly prepare a follow-up action plan (Section
4.03 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
BaLnk Sector Support Strategy
29i.      The Bank's approach to transport development in Indonesia is geared
to assisting GOI to develop the sector to serve traffic growth in line with
economic development trends both through additions to physical infrastructure
and through improvements in fiscal and regulatory policies and management
arrangements. The aim is to establish gradually an efficient transport system
which is demand-responsive and financially self-supporting.
30.       The Bank's ongoing and proposed sector assistance program is three-
pronged, in (a) general sector development po:Licies and management; (b) high-
way development; and (c) maritime transport development. As an integral part
of all ongoing and proposed future transport lending operations, the Bank will
assist MOC in reviewing and, where necessary, revising existing transport
development and regulatory policies and related arrangements, in support of
GOI's overall economic, fiscal and social policies. Assistance will also be
provided to strengthen MOC's sector management capabilities under the proposed
First National Ports Development Project.
Road Network and Traffic
31.       Indonesia has a relatively limited road network of some 148,000 km
of classified highways. Roads are classified administratively into national
(11,800 km), provincial (34,000 km), and district roads (101,700 km).  The
coverage of the main highway network appears generally adequate for the
cotntry's present and medium-term road transport needs, but significant
upgrading and improvement are required because the pavements of about three-
quaLrters (35,000 km) of the national and provincial network are in an advanced
staLte of deterioration and about half (23,000 km) of these roads have pavement
widths of 4.5 m and less. Also, over 60% of all bridges are substandard; some
10% are in critical condition and need immediate replacement.
32.       In step with a 17% average annual increase in the motor vehicles
fleet, road traffic has grown rapidly during tlhe last decade: over 20%
annually during 1973-78 when the price of fuel was low but at a more modest
rate of just over 4% since 1978. Due to recent, significant price increases



- 11 -
in fuel, the less optimistic economic outlook as well as plans for improved
collection of road user charges and possibly increased taxation (para. 28),
traffic growth in the near future is expected to be in the moderate range of
4-7% per annum. Traffic volumes vary considerably among islands: in 1981,
Java had the highest overall average volume for national and provincial roads
with 4,200 vehicles per day, followed by Sumatra with 970 vehicles per day,
and Sulawesi with 770 vehicles per day. Road traffic accidents are a growing
socio-economic problem with some 11,000 fatalities reported in 1980.  The
Highway and Road Transport Study, financed under the Fifth Highway Project
(Loan 1696-IND), identified numerous inadequacies in laws and regulations
regarding vehicles and traffic, in their enforcement by the police, as well as
in other areas. Measures for improvement are being implemented under the
Fifth Highway Project.
Road Transport Industry
33.       About 90% of goods transported in Indonesia go by road, and about
80% of this is commercial. Supply and quality of services are adequate.
Government trucking regulations cover operations in urban areas, weights and
dimensions, interprovincial routes on Java, vehicle inspections and tariff
ceilings. Given little or no barriers to entry into the industry and the
degree of competition that exists in most areas, actual charges are usually
below the tariff ceilings.
34.       Buses carry over 90% of passengers transported commercially and some
77% of passenger-kms travelled. Intercity passenger transport is provided
primarily by private bus companies. State-owned bus companies also provide
some inter-urban services, pioneer services in low demand, remote areas where
operations are not commercially viable, as well as most urban bus services.
Government regulations cover various aspects of bus transportation, including
the legal structure of companies, route licensing and scheduling, vehicle
weights and sizes, vehicle inspection, passenger seating, fleet size and
tariffs. Tariffs generate adequate revenues for inter-urban bus companies.
While intra-urban bus services still require substantial subsidies, fares have
been gradually increased over the last three years.
35.       The Highway and Road Transport Study recommended improving the
services and efficiency of the road transport industry through changes in
government policies regarding vehicle size, axle load limits, route structure,
industry organization and management, and improvements in terminal and transit
facilities for freight and passengers. The recommended policy changes have
generated widespread interest in government. A land transport development
plan, addressing route structure and terminal and transit facilities will be
prepared by consultants.  The Bank is engaged in a continuing dialogue with
GOI on desirable changes in sector policies and has agreed to assist GOI to
develop a feasible program for the implementation of such changes.
36.       Weight control is the responsibility of MOC's Directorate General of
Land Communications. Vehicle weights enforcement is not yet satisfactory.
There are about 170 fixed weighbridges in the country and some 60 mobile
weighbridges, but about one-third are beyond repair. Enforcement is compli-
cated by confusing legislation governing legal axle load limits, which are



- 12 -
excessively restrictive and out-of-date.  The Highway and Road Transport Study
identified problems and shortcomings and made recommendations for establishing
an effective legal and procedural framework for axle load control. The extent
of overloading is substantial; according to recent surveys about 30% of loaded
vehicles on the road exceed the legal axle weight, but even so axle loads are
moderate. The recorded detection rate of overloading is exceptionally low
with an average of 3 to 5 violations per 1,000 weighings. TLhe main reason for
such low rates is illegal feies levied by weigh station personnel. In order to
eliminate these practices, GOI closed all weighbridges in February 1983.
During negotiations, GOI re-affirmed that it intends to enforce vehicle weight
regulations as they exist now more rigorously.  Some weighing stations have
been reopened and the GOI has initiated a study by the Indonesian Institute of
Science to identify more appropriate equipment that would minimize opportuni-
ties for evasion. During loan negotiations as'surances were obtained that GOI
would agree with the Bank before December 31, 1984, on an action plan for more
effective vehicle weight and axle load control (Section 4.03(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Administration, Staff and Training
37.       Administration of the highway network is carried out by the Public
Works agencies of the various tiers of government. At the central level, the
DGH has primary responsibility for the road subsector. Other road agencies
are the provincial public works departments (DPUP) and district public works
departments (DPUK). An Indornesian Toll Road Corporation was established in
1978 to develop and operate toll roads.
38.       DGH is responsible for the design and execution of most major road
works in Indonesia. It also coordinates the rehabilitation, maintenance and
minor construction programs which are carried out by the DPUPs, with funds
from the Central Government, and operates a national highway equipment pool
and highway research and testing facilities. T'here is still considerable lack
of haighway management capacity, particularly at the provincial and local
leveals. Furthermore, institutional and functic;nal responsibilities for high-
way development and operations are not clearly defined although the new road
law, issued in December 1980, defines in broad terms the framework for the
administration of the highway subsector and establishes overall functional
responsibilities and basic criteria for road development and maintenance. A
critical step in establishing a well-defined highway management structure is
the issue of detailed regulations under the road law. These regulations,
setting out the institutional and functional responsibilities at all levels of
government, have already been prepared and are awaiting Cabinet approval. A
draft of the regulations has been reviewed by Bank staff and found
sati'sfactory. At loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from the GOI
that the regulations would be issued by October 1, 1984 (Section 4.04 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
39.       The various provincial public works functions are handled by
separate departments within the DPUPs; for roads it is the Dinas Bina Marga
(DBk[)  The new departments are being established in the larger provinces
where administrative capabilities are already well developed, while in most
other provinces staff and equipment continue to be shared for the various



- 13 -
functions of the DPUPs until suffLcient managerial skills are developed for
effective provincial highway manalgement. In order to ameliorate the short-
comings in highway management at the provincial level, DGH has established
Regional Betterment Offices (RBOs) which design and supervise highway better-
ment schemes. The RBOs will be phased out as provincial highway management
improves; this is already happening in some provinces. The project would
provide assistance in developing highway management skills at the provincial
level.
40.       Most of Indonesia's 260 districts and 55 incorporated municipalities
have their own public works departments, the DPUKs. Under the overall
authority of the Directorate-General of Regional Development in the Ministry
of Home Affairs, the DPUKs are responsible for the construction, rehabilita-
tion and maintenance of district roads within their confines and most have
their own staff and equipment, although a few are still dependent on the DPUPs
to handle road works. The Rural Roads Development Project (Loan 2083-IND) and
other projects (described in paragraphs 52-55) are providing assistance in 50
districts, and further assistance is being proposed in 60 additional districts
under upcoming projects.
41.       The steadily increasing volume of work imposes strains on DGH as
well as the DPUPs and DPUKs. DGH's permanent staff has increased by some 10%
annually over the last five years while the number of nonpermanent employees
has more than doubled over this period. Total DGH staff now exceed 5,000,
some 2,500 of whom are permanent, with about 500 professionals (about 300
civil engineers). Despite substantial efforts to expand and upgrade staff,
the shortage of qualified personnel remains an important problem for road
authorities at all levels. Training continues to be a major element in DGH
manpower management through both MPW's overall training activities and
specific DGH programs. Recent manpower planning studies have concluded that
the effectiveness of training provided is limited and the Public Works
Manpower Development Project (Loan 2258-IND) is assisting MPW to correct
training deficiencies.
Planning, Design and Construction
42.       In the transport sector the planning process varies among modes.
Highway planning is the most sophisticated and still most centralized. In
1979, DGH transferred its regional and long-range planning functions to the
Directorate General of Housing, Building, Planning and Urban Development
(Cipta Karya), one of the Directorates General in MPW.  Cipta Karya has also
assumed responsibility for planning guidelines for expanded GOI assistance to
district roads, while planning their development is the responsibility of the
Ministry of Home Affairs.  Planning toll roads is done by DGH, while the
Indonesian Toll Road Corporation's role is limited to design, construction and
operation.
43.       The main organization for highway planning remains, however, DGH's
Directorate of Planning which periodically collects data on traffic, including
origin-destination surveys. These data are complemented by systematic annual
road and bridge condition inventories covering all national and provincial
roads. The planning methodologies applied by DGH's Directorate of Planning



- 14 -
for national and provincial roads are basically sound. Reliable procedures
have been developed for screening and ranking highway investment proposals.
But the parameters used in the analyses are derived from data and criteria in
developed countries where the circumstances are rather different.  The
proposed project would assist in reviewing and refining analytical methodo-
logies and parameters for highway planning to reflect local conditions.
44.        DGH's design work is the responsibility of the Directorate of
Planning which has demonstrated its capacity to produce acceptable designs for
a broad range of highway and bridge construction, and to supervise a large
volume of design work by consultants as well.  Design work at the provincial
and district levels is the responsibility of the DPUPs and DPUKs, respec-
tively.
45.        Responsiblity for highway construction lies with DGH's Directorate
of Construction for national roads and some major works on provincial
highways, with DPUPs for provincial roads and some minor works on national
roaLds, and with DPUKs for district roads. The works are mostly executed by
contract under a variety of arrangements, but some minor projects are executed
by force account, mostly at the provincial and lower levels. Ten years ago,
Indonesia had a relatively small number of experienced contracting firms
capable of executing major road works, and DGH therefore used mainly foreign
contractors for such jobs. Since then local capability has developed so that
there are now some 2400 local contractors capalble of undertaking works of up
to US$300,000 and some 800 of these are allowed to bid on works over this
amount.
46.        The long-range development of the Indonesian construction industry
was the subject of a study sponsored by the Un:Ited Nations Industrial
Development Organization (UNIDO) in 1976/77. A related action plan was
prepared under the Fifth Highway Project, followed by technical assistance to
the industry by seconding key technical and managerial personnel from MPW to
local firms. While the RBOs were initially heavily staffed by expatriate
consultants in association with local consultarLts, the number of expatriates
has decreased in step with increasing reliance on local consultants. But
shortages of qualified Indonesian highway engineers still persist which impede
efforts to further develop highway design capabilities, both in highway
administration and in the local consulting industry. Also, under the Fifth
Highway Project, about 150 DGH professionals and technicians received overseas
training in transportation planning, project management and information
systems, and in liaison with the Institute of Technology Bandung, post-
graduate courses in transportation planning and highway and traffic engineer-
ing. A two-year extension of these courses will be financed under the
proposed project.  In addition, under the Fifth Highway Project, extensive
trai-ning for professionals and staff of eight DPUPs, mostly in the prepara-
tion, tendering and managing of contracts for betterment works and in the
plarning, organization and execution of road maintenance, including equipment
management, is being provided. This training will be continued and extended
under the proposed project.



- 15 -
Highway Maintenance
47.       Maintenance of national and provincial roads is carried out by the
DPUPs, partly with provincial funds and partly with funds supplied by Central
Government, through the budgets of DGH and the Directorates General of Admini-
stration and Regional Autonomy in the Ministry of Home Affairs. Despite
substantial allocations, maintenance of the national and provincial network is
not yet adequate.
48.       Studies have identified many deficiencies in the organization and
execution of road maintenance which could be corrected without additional
budget allocations. DPUP improvement programs, including technical assistance
and training, provision of equipment and financing of support works, are
currently underway in nine provinces, partly financed under the Fifth Highway
Project and the Rural Roads Development Project, which is also financing pre-
paration of improvement programs in the remaining provinces. The proposed
project would finance technical assistance to 14 DPUPs (described in para-
graph 63).
49.       During Repelita IV, DGH plans to improve some 17,500 km (3,500 km
per year) of national and provincial roads with the aim of having about 80% of
the network in maintainable condition by the end of the decade; during the
period, allocations for maintenance and support works are expected to increase
from about US$92 million in 1984/85 to about US$126 million in 1989/90,
representing allocations averaging over US$2,000 per km per year. With these
allocations, assistance under ongoing projects and the assistance planned
under the proposed project, regular maintenance of the national and provincial
network is expected to be fully adequate by the end of the decade.
50.       The DPUKs are responsible for maintaining district roads; where the
DPUKs lack the organizational capability or where there is no public works
organization, maintenance is carried out by the DPUPs. The Rural Roads
Development Project and other projects are also addressing road maintenance
improvements in 50 districts by provision of equipment, workshops, technical
assistance and extensive training. The Ministry of Home Affairs has agreed
that at least 15% of all district road funds would be allocated to maintenance
and that this amount will gradually increase as required to adequately
maintain the district road system.
Accounts and Audit
51.       DGH's accounting procedures are adequate.  Accounts are audited both
internally and externally. Internal auditing of DGH is done by the MPW's
Inspectorate General which reports directly to the Minister. Projects for
audit are initially selected on a random basis, supplemented by follow-up of
projects with problems detected earlier. External auditing is done by the
State Directorate General of Public Finance Control (State Auditors) of the
Ministry of Finance, and is sound.



- 16 -
Bank Involvement in Road Subsector
52.       The Bank Group has so far made seven loans totalling US$514.2 million
for road development in Indoniesia. The First Hiighway Project (US$28 million,
Credit 154-IND, 1969) helped restore communications in Indonesia after a long
period of neglect, by providiing for rehabilitation of about 3,000 km of
roads. The Second Highway Project (US$34 million, Credit 260-IND, 1971)
helped rebuild a section of the Trans Sumatra IHighway. The Third Highway
Project (US$14 million, Credit 388-IND, 1973) helped reconstruct a road to a
new irrigation area in Sulawesi and also included an important training
component. The Fourth Highway Project (US$130 million, Loan 1236-IND, 1976)
provided for betterment of existing roads, extensive technical assistance and
many studies. The Second Highway Project was completed in 1977, the Third in
1978 and the Fourth in June 1983. As detailed in the Project Performance
Audit Report (PPAR), SecM81-4, January 6, 1981, the second project had
relatively minor delays and cost overruns, while the third had significant
delays (because of mobilization problems in a very remote area and unusually
wet weather) and increased construction costs. Completion of the fourth
project was delayed by 30 months.
53.       The ongoing Fifth Highway Project (US$123.2 million, Loan 1696-IND,
1979) includes: (a) components of DGH's road betterment and bridge replace-
ment programs; (b) road works executed by eight provincial public works
organizations; and (c) technical assistance to strengthen the highway admin-
istration and local consultants and contractors. There have been start-up
delays due to: (a) underestimation at appraisal of time needed to process
various components and numerous consultancy conltracts; (b) over-centralization
of DGH; (c) shifting of senior staff within DGH; and (d) change of development
guidelines urnder Repelita Ill. Overall, the project is about 69% complete,
and there is a reasonable chance of completing the project with a total delay
of about one year.
54.       The Jakarta-Cikampek Highway Project (US$85 million, Loan 2049-IND,
1981) provides financing for the construction of a new toll road between
Jakarta and Cikampek, for upgrading of the existing road between both cities
as well as for assistance in strengthening the capacity of the Indonesian Toll
Road Corporation. The Kuwait Fund for Arab Econ,omic Development is cofinan-
cing this project with a loan of US$60 million equivalent. The project has
suffered serious start-up delays because of budget constraints and institu-
tional changes. Most problems have been resolved, and construction contracts
have been let at prices substantially below appraisal estimates. Project
completion is projected for December 1989, about two years behind appraisal
schedule.
55.       The Rural Roads Development Project (US$100 million, Loan 2083-IND,
1982) provides financing for rural roads construction and maintenance in 25
districts. This project has suffered early implementation problems because of
institutional and administration weaknesses within the executing agencies, the
Ministry of Home Affairs and its provincial branches. Local budget con-
straints have aggravated the early problems. An action program has been drawn
up to complete the project by December 1986, as originally planned.



- 17 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Description
56.       The project would assist GOI in pursuing its highway development
strategy of extensive restoration anad upgrading of the national and provincial
road networks during Repelita IV, thus supporting GOI's goal of having 80% of
the national and provincial road networks in maintainable condition by the end
of Repelita IV. The project would also contribute to improved planning proce-
dures, technical standards and implementation arrangements for highway better-
ment and maintenance. Special emphasis would be on furthering efficient high-
way management, and on effective arrangements for highway maintenance and
development financing through increased road user charges. The Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 4804-IND) is being distributed separately. Negotiations
were held in Washington from February 21, 1984 through February 24, 1984.
Mr. Suryatin Sastromidjoyo, Director General of Highways, led the Indonesian
Delegation. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
57.       The project would consist of civil works, equipment, and technical
assistance and training, as described below:
(a) Civil Works. Betterment of some 2,000 km of intercity trunk routes,
consisting of major national and provincial roads, including
replacement of some 2,500 m and repair of some 2,000 m of associated
bridges; upgrading and rehabilitation of some 1,000 km of key roads,
including replacement of some 1,500 m and repair of some 1,200 m of
associated bridges; and replacement of 4,000 m of defective, high
priority bridges on other important roads;
(b) Equipment. Procurement of equipment for surface dressing operations
to improve the efficiency of road maintenance in fourteen provinces,
laboratory equipment for the design and quality control of hot-mix
bituminous surfacings and for quality control of asbuton used in
road construction and maintenance; and
(c) Technical Assistance and Training. Engagement of local and foreign
consultants to design and supervise major road works; to improve
highway management at the provincial level and develop cost-effec-
tive road construction and maintenance techniques and procedures; to
improve road investment planning; to further develop training
programs for highway professionals at the Institute of Technology in
Bandung; to survey and map local road building materials; and to
improve the production and quality of asbuton.
Civil Works
58.       Betterment of 2,000 km of Trunk Roads.  The 2,000 km of betterment
works will include some 45-50 sections of seriously deteriorated two-lane
roads in various parts of the country. Works will be designed for a 10-year
lifetime in accordance with minimutm standards agreed with GOI (Section 3.07 of



- 18 -
the draft Loan Agreement) and would generally comprise, as required, improve-
ment of drainage and repair, widening and strengthening of pavements and
shoulders. Some 20% of pavements need widening and all pavements will be
strengthened by bituminous overlays. The works will be carried out in two
phases; the first phase program of 1,235 km has been agreed with GOI, and the
second phase program will be agreed between the GOI and the Bank by October 1,
1984 (Section 3.01(b)(i) of the draft Loan Agreement).
59.       Upgrading and Rehabilitation of 1,000 km of Key Roads.  This work
complements the betterment of intercity trunk routes, with emphasis on linking
inland routes and ports and on establishing continuity in the network.
Included are over 60 sections of two-lane roads in various parts of the
country where pavement deterioration is still moderate or where low cost
pavements (such as gravel and single bituminous surface dressing) need
upgrading. Although designed and executed as described above for the trunk
routes, works will be of much smaller scale and average cost. The 1984/85
program has been agreed with Government and programs for each subsequent year
will be agreed no later than December 31 of the preceding year (Section
3.01(b)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
60.       Bridge Replacement Program.  Bridges would be repaired or replaced
as shown below:
REpair            Replacement
---------- (m) -----------
Bridges on:
Trunk roads included in project             2,000                2,500
Key roads in project                        1,200                1,500
Priority roads not in project              __-_4,000
Total                                 3,200                8,000
Briclges included in the program are creating traffic bottlenecks for one or
more of the following reasons: severe load limitations because of low initial
design loads or advanced structural deterioration, width restrictions, and
hazaLrdous hydrological conditions such as erosion and overtopping. Implemen-
tation will be in three phases. The first and second phases, covering 98
bridLges with a total length of 4,380 m, have been agreed. DGH has submitted a
tentative program of 94 more bridges with 4,170 m length for the third phase
and a firm proposal for inclusion of about 3,603 m for this phase will be
submlitted for Bank review and approval by October 1, 1984 (Section
3.01(b)(iii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Equipment
61.       The proposed project would provide equipment:  (a) for surface
dressing operations to improve the efficiency of road maintenance in the four-
teen provinces that will be provided with technical assistance under the
project; and (b) for laboratories to improve the design and quality control of
hot-mix bituminous surfacings and quality control of asbuton. The laboratory
equipment would be allocated to: (i) the main laboratory at the DGH's Road



- 19 -
Research Institute in Bandung for pavement and materials research; (ii) about
25 DPUP laboratories, to complement existing equipment, and to a new labora-
tory on the island of Buton (where asbuton is quarried by the State Asphalt
Corporation), in order to ensure, under the DGH's Road Research Institute's
direction, adequate quality control of asbuton; and (iii) about 20 mobile
laboratories for asphalt mixing centers (AMCs) for the design and continuous
control of production. The list of equipment has been agreed with GOI.
Technical Assistance
62.       Recruitment and training of professionals by DGH and the DPUPs lags
*       behind the increasing demand from expanding operations, so a significant
number of consultants will have to be employed over the near- and medium-
terms. The GOI's general policy is to use foreign consultants only when local
consultants do not possess the required capabilities. Although an effective
group of local consultants is emerging, their expertise aad number are yet
limited and it is apparent that road authorities will need to continue to use
foreign consultants for some time. The Bank is actively assisting DGH in
reducing its reliance on foreign consultants.
63-       DPUPs.  In addition to the DBMs of the eight DPUPs presently being
provided assistq7ce under the Fifth Highway Project, DGH plans to strengthen
six more DPUPs. - The proposed project would finance technical assistance to
these fourteen DPUPs to develop the capabilities of their DBMs and, in liaison
with the affiliated RBOs, to facilitate the gradual transfer of technical and
administrative responsibilities for major roadworks from the central to the
provincial level. In addition to assisting in improving the present activi-
ties of DPUPs, including the design and supervision of upgrading and rehabili-
tation works, the technical assistance would specifically, and in close coope-
ration with DGH's Road Research Institute in Bandung, focus on introducing
inexpensive surfacing such as single and double bituminous dressing for
improving maintenance, extending the use of asbuton and improving the opera-
tions of the existing asphalt mixing centers and establishing new centers.
Foreign and local firms would be involved in about equal proportions; some 900
man-months in total are estimated to be required over a period of 30 months.
64.       DGH's Directorate of Planning.  DGH is using computer models for
planning investments in road construction, betterment and maintenance, but
these models use relationships and parameters derived from experience in
countries with road building methods and climatic conditions quite different
than those in Indonesia. To develop parameters based on local conditions the
project will provide technical assistance to DGH's Directorate of Planning in
the form of two experts for a total of about 40 man-months.
65.       Post-Graduate Training in Transport Planning and Engineering.  Under
the Fifth Highway Project and in liaison with the Institute of Technology in
Bandung, a post-graduate training course in development planning and highway
7/   In addition to these fourteen DPUPs, one is being assisted under the
Rural Roads Development Project.



- 20 -
engineering was started in September 1982, using temporary accommodation in
Bandung, and with lecturers provided through University College, London. The
scope of the course has since been extended with the addition of two lecturers
to cover transport planning and traffic engineering. In order to prepare the
Indonesian counterpart lecturers and administrators to assume full responsi-
biliLty for running the course satisfactorily, the project would finance an
exteinsion of the entire course for two years, until August 1986 requiring
about 270 man-months. Furthermore, as the course is being run in unsuitable
temporary accommodations, at negotiations assurances were obtained from GOI
that satisfactory permanent accommodation will be provided not later than
August 31, 1985 (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
66.       Survey of Road Building Materials.  The project would provide tech-
nical assistance to help the DGH's Road Research Institute in Bandung, map,
catalog and test road building materials in the whole of Indonesia and to
start the process in one or two areas of the cotntry where materials for road-
works are scarce. The survey would be valuable in making effective use of
locally available materials in road construction and maintenance and would
also reduce the need for extensive and expensive ad hoc field surveys for
feasibility studies, road design and maintenance operations. To supplement
the Institute's expert staff, the project would provide some 120 man-months of
specialist local consultants as well as an experienced expatriate coordinator
for about 12 man-months during a period of two years.
67.       Quality of Asbuton.  To improve the quality of asbuton, the project
will provide technical assistance and overseas training to the technical and
managerial staff of the State Asphalt Corporation, in quarrying and trans-
porting operations and in accounting and pricing procedures, and to the staff
of the DGH's Road Research Institute in Bandung for quality control. The
assistance, estimated at some 80 man-months, would extend for about two years.
68.       Supervision of Construction.  Supervision of betterment works and
bridge replacement works will be carried out by local consulting firms that
will strengthen their staff by foreign experts, as required. It is estimated
that the 2,000 km of betterment works will be let in some 50 contracts and
that about 180-190 bridges to be constructed wou:Ld be let in 40-50 contracts.
It is estimated that supervision of these 90-100 contracts would require 480
man-months of foreign and 2,100 man-months of local consultants services
during a period of about four years.
Project Cost and Financing
69.       The total financing required for the project, including contingency
allowances and the capitalized front-end fee on the Bank loan is estimated at
US$385.0 million, of which US$240 million is the foreign exchange cost (about
62% oE total project cost). Total cost includes: (a) physical contingencies
of 10% of base cost on all items, except technical assistance for post-
graduate training, materials survey and quality control of asbuton; and (b)
price contingencies calculated on projected local cost increases of 12% during
1984, 10% during 1985 through 1987 and 9% in 1988 and on foreign cost
increases of 3% in 1984, 7.5% during the 1985 and 9% during the following
years.



- 21 -
70.       The costs are estimated as of early 1984 and include about
US$10 million for taxes and duties. The estimates for civil works are based
on updated recent bid prices and cost of force account works. Betterment of
intercity trunk routes is estimated to cost on average US$80,000 per km;
upgrading/ rehabiliation of key roads is estimated to cost US$43,000 per km,
reflecting lower standards and smaller scale roadworks than for trunk routes;
bridge replacement is estimated to cost on average US$7,000 per m. Costs of
equipment for surface dressing operations and for laboratories are based on
recent suppliers quotations.  For consultancy services and technical
assistance the average man-month cost for local consultants is estimated at
US$2,500, and for foreign consultants at US$11,000. This includes salaries,
fees, international travel, subsistence and other applicable charges, but
excludes local transportation costs, local office staff and operating
expenses, report printing and other minor expenses.
71.       The proposed Bank loan of US$240.0 million would finance the full
foreign exchange cost (including US$0.6 million for the capitalized front-end
fee) or about 64% of total project cost, excluding taxes and duties. The GOI
would finance the remainder through annual budgetary allocations to DGH.
Implementation and Procurement
72.       DGH will be solely responsible for project execution.  The details
of departmental responsibilities and of the planned transfer of some responsi-
bilities to the provincial road authorities will not be firmly known until the
regulations under the road law have been issued, but during negotiations
assurances were obtained from the G0I that the regulations would be issued
before October 1, 1984 (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). Based on
experience gained under previous highway projects, the implementation capacity
of DGH and the DPUPs, all assisted by qualified consultants, is considered
adequate to execute the project. The project period, from date of effective-
ness until physical completion, is expected to be about four and one half
years.



- 22 -
73.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Procurement .Method                 Total
Projject element                     ICB      LCB      Other                cost
----- (US$ Million) ------------
Road betterment                     218.8        -                         218.8
(119.7)      -         -               (119.7)
Bridge substructures                 27.6       7.8       -                 35.4
(14.3)    (4.2)       -                (18.5)
Bridge materials                     34.7       -         -                 34.7
(31.9)      -         -                (31.9)
Road upgrading/rehabilitation          -      22.3      33.7                56.0
(12.0)   (18.1)              (31.1)
Equipment                             4.5       -         -                  4.5
(4.2)      -         -                 (4.2)
Technical assistance and
consulting services                 -         -       35.0               35.0
-        -      (35.0)              (35.0)
Totals                         285.6      30.1      68.7              384.4
(170.1)   (16.2)   (53.1)              (239.4)
Note:     Figures include physical and price contingencies and those in
parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
Civil works for the betterment of trunk routes (US$218.8 million) would be
procured under contracts through Internatinal Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procetdures in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. As most
betterment contracts will be of the order of US$0.5-3.0 million, whenever
feasible contracts will be grouped into US$4-5 million packages in order to
encourage competition. Contractors would be eligible to bid on one or several
contracts within a package as well as on one or more packages, but eligibility
for total amount of contract award is determined through the prequalification
procedures.
74.       About 80% of all bridge substructures (US$27.6 million) will be
procured through ICB and whenever feasible contracts will be grouped into
US$4-5 million packages. Because of isolated locations and small size of
works, substructures of about 45 identified bridges (US$7.8 million) will be
procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures. This is
satisfactory as foreign contractors are not expected to show interest in
bidding for these works. As most of the new bridges have been designed with
prefabricated steel superstructures and on pile foundations of steel pipes and
as new culverts have been designed of corrugated metal pipes, it has been
agreed that to take advantage of economies of scale, DGH would procure all
such superstructures, piles and culverts through ICB in one or more lots



- 23 -
(US$34.7 million) and    provide theam as ready-made components (materials) to
the contractors for erection and finalization (Schedule 4, Section C, of the
draft Loan Agreement).
75.       Apart from bituminous surface dressing and hot rolled sheet (HRS)
overlays, civil works for the upgrading and rehabilitation of key roads and
associated bridge repairing (US$22.3 million) will be carried out under
contracts awarded following LCB procedures satisfactory to the Bank; contract
size will generally be of the order of US$0.1 - 0.5 million.  Two secondary,
but very important, objectives of the project are: (a) to introduce (and gain
experience) in the use of inexpensive pavement surfacings such as single and
double bituminous surface dressings and (b) to pursue further the use of
asbuton in overlays and to develop new uses for asbuton. In order to achieve
these objectives, as well as to utilize fully the capacity of equipment (some
of which has been provided under previous highway projects) for the production
of bituminous overlays for periodic maintenance, bitumincjs surface dressing
and hotmix overlays (US$33.7 million) would be carried out by force account by
the DPUPs and the AMCs (Schedule 4, Section C.2, of the draft Loan Agreement).
Supported by technical assistance under the project, the DPUPs will be
responsible for the introduction and development of the bituminous surface
dressings and the AMCs for developing the HRS overlays as the AMCs have been
specifically equipped to use asbuton in the HRS production.
76.       Bidding documents for civil works contracts estimated to cost
US$2.0 million equivalent or more (some 60% of all works financed under the
project) would be subject to the Bank's prior review and approval; other docu-
ments would be available for review, together with bid evaluation, after award
of contracts. Equipment, including spare parts, (US$4.5 million) will be
procured following ICB procedures and all documents will be subject to Bank's
review and approval prior to invitation for tender. Delivery of equipment is
expected to take place in the first half of 1985 (Schedule 4, Section D, of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
77.       Disbursements would be imade at the following rates:  for civil
works: 63% of expenditures on road and bridgeworks; for equipment and
materials: 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported items, or 100%
of local expenditures (ex factory), excluding identifiable duties and taxes,
of locally manufactured items, or 65% of expenditures of locally procured
items; and for consulting services: 100% of expenditures. Expenditures under
force account would be reimbursed on the basis of statements of expenditure
certified by the supervising consultants. Supporting documents will be
retained by DGH for inspection by Bank staff (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Accounts and Audit
78.       DGH will keep separate accounts for each project component.  At
negotiations assurances were obtained that, following the regular internal MPW
audit of the project accounts, including documentation for statements of
expenditure, the accounts would be audited by an independent auditor accept-



- 24 -
able to the Bank and its detailed audit report would be submitted to the Bank
within nine months after the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.02 of the
draft: Loan Agreement).
Status of Preparation
79.       Feasibility studies and engineering of the road links and bridges
have been carried out during the last few years. DGH is now employing
consultants to review and revise the engineering on the basis of the agreed
betterment design standards. These reviews were completed for the first-phase
road links and bridges in mid-December 1983. Similar reviews for the second-
phase would be completed by May 1984. Contract documents have been standar-
dized and agreed and tendering of first phase works started in early January
1984. DGH has completed its preliminary selection of roads for a five-year
program for the upgrading/rehabilitation of key roads and the first-year
program of 534 km has been agreed.
Environmental Aspects
80.       The project is not expected to have any adverse environmental
effects. Works are mostly improvements of roads and bridges on existing
alignment with minimal requirements for additional land; works would include
improved side and cross drainage, widening and strengthening of shoulders and
pavements, overlays on old pavements and the provision of bituminous
surfacings on gravel roads, all of which would improve conditions along the
road through reducing dust and noise and the possibility of flooding. Land
acquisition is not an important problem, as there are no new roads in the
project.
Benefits and Risks
81.       Procedures for selecting inter-city trunk routes for improvement or
betterment have evolved in Indonesia over the past several years, and now
consist of a logical series of steps initiated by the Screening Feasibility
Office of DGH's Rural Road Engineering Subdirectorate, with engineering
support from the RBOs. Road links are passed through three successive evalua-
tions, with links meeting a minimum economic test (a 15% economic return)
approvesd for the next stage of engineering work, with the third and final
evaluation based on final engineering design and resultant cost estimates.
The main benefits from road improvement/betterment arise from reductions in
(a) road user costs (from reduced congestion and improved road surface) and
travel time, and (b) road maintenance costs.  The economic returns on works in
the betterment portion of the project are estimated at 23-100% and the first
year returns at 21-42%.
82.       In view of the large number of works involved in the upgrading/
rehabilitation program, selection was based on the first-year return, with 15%
as the minimum. As these works are designed for a ten-year life, even with
modest traffic growth the project roads will have a minimum 15% economic
return. The main benefit is the savings in road user costs as reflected in
the improvement in road surface. Because the bridge replacement program also
involves a large number of structures, selection of these was also based on a



- 25 -
first-year return analysis, with a 15% minimum. The economic return on this
part of the project will be a minimum of 33%. The average economic rate of
return on the project as a whole is estimated at over 30%.
83.       Some risk is attached to the project, in that, if restrictions on
budget allocations become severe, DGH may be tempted to maintain physical
targets for the length of road works to be completed by lowering engineering
standards, particularly for road betterment. Lowering of standards below a
ten-year life is inconsistent with GOI's goal of upgrading the network to a
stable condition and will be more costly in economic terms in most instances.
In order to minimize the risk of such lower standards, during negotiations
assurances were obtained from GOI t:hat the project will be carried out in
conformity with appropriate highway engineering, administrative and financial
practices (Section 3.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
84.       A principal risk in most construction projects is the adverse effect
of delays in execution on economic viability. In the proposed project, such
risks are considered minimal: the bidding process for the first-phase program
is well under way and advance preparations for the second-phase program are
also well in hand. In any case, for betterment works of the kind constituting
the core of the project, one or two years' delay of works will enhance the
economic return, while an extension of the period of execution would only
marginally affect the economic return. Furthermore, the estimated returns in
this case are sufficiently attractive that there is no risk of any of the
components turning out to be economically unjustified due to any delays that
could be reasonably foreseen.
85.       Sensitivity tests were made on a selection of proposed road
betterment links allowing simultaneous variations in cost and benefit streams
to reflect uncertainties in construction costs (+25%), road maintenance costs
(+20%), and road user cost savings (-25%). Allowing variations to occur
simultaneously according to the probability distribution found in a test of
300 samples showed very low probability that even under the worst combination
of circumstances, economic returns would fall below 15%. First year returns
used to decide the appropriate timing of works are in all cases adequate, that
is, at least 15%.
86.       By lowering transport costs, improvements to Indonesia's main inter-
city highway network will directly benefit the modern commercial and
industrial sectors of the economy, through reducing costs for delivery of
inputs, inland distribution of imports, collection and movement of products
for export and for the domestic market. They will also improve labor mobility
and promote passenger movements. Eventually and indirectly the reduction in
transport costs will benefit producers and consumers alike by favorable trends
in the prices the former can get for their products and the latter have to pay
for their purchases. Roadside service activities will grow to serve the
additional traffic induced by lower transport costs, providing additional
employment and income.



- 26 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
87.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section
III of Annex III.
88.       I am satisfied thal the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
89.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
March 23, 1984
Washington, D.C.



- 27 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
INDONESIA              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                     (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCCME
1970'   ESTIMATS-         ASIA & PACIFIC      LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM)
TOTAL                              1919.3     1919.3      1919.3
AGRICULTURAL                        266.0      307.1        317.3
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   90.0       150.0        530.0            1028.6                   2088.2
ENERGY COISUMPrION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     129.0        143.0       266.0             792.8                   1407.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  94680.0   116201.0   149451.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)       14.6         17.1       20.6               32.9                     65.9
i
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                            215.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                             399.5
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                              2140
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        49.3       60.5         76.2             260.7                     35.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND           355.9       378.4       461.2             1696.5                     93.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                          40.7       44.0        39.8               39.4                     40.1
15-64 YRS                         56.2        53.4        57.i               57.2                     55.8
65 AND ABOVE                       3.1         2.5         3.1                3.3                      4.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (1)
TOTAL                               2.1         2.0        2.3                2.3                      2.3
URBAN                              3.7         3.6         4.0                3.9                      3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)        45.8        410.7       34.6               31.3                     31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)        22.5        17.2        13.1                9.6                      8.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.8         2.7         2.2                2.0                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)           ..       181.1      3051.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)          ..         0.2        36.0               46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                       93.0       102.0       122.0              125.2                    113.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)      86.0        94.0       110.0              114.2                    111.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          38.0        42.0        49.0               57.9                     67.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          6.0         6.0         7.0/c            14.1                     34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE         22.9        16.9        13.7                7.6                      5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)       41.2         47.3       53.5               60.2                     64.6
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)      149.9       120.9       105.0               68.1                     62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%PoP)
TOTAL                               ..          3.0       23.0               37.1                     64.8
URBAN                               ..        10.0        41.0               54.8                     77.8
RURAL                                .         1.0        18.0               26.4                     44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                .        15.0        23.0               41.4                     54.6
URBAN                               ..        19.0        20.0               47.5                     69.8
RURAL                                *        14.0        24.0               33.4                     29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         46780.0    26510.0    11530.0               7771.9                   1776.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           4510.0/f   7660.0       2300.0             2462.6                   1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1360.0      1650.0      1610.0/d           1047.2                    477.0
URBAN                            250.0          ..       700.07W            651.1                    667.5
RURAL                               ..          ..      3160.07W           2591.9                   1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        22.4/e             27.0                     27.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.4         4.8
URBAN                              4.9          5.3
RURAL                              4.3          4.7
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         1.5
URBAN                               ..          1.6
RURAL                                *         1.5
ACCESS TO ELECT. (I OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
…-- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- - _ - _ - - -_- - _ --- . . - - - - - --- -- _ - _ - _ - _ -_ -_ - _ - _ - _ -_ - _ - --- -- -_



- 28 -                                                ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (140ST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
1960/b       1970/b  RECENT  /b         RIDDLE INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
ESTIMATE-          ASIA & PACIFIC         LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
EDUCATION
ADjUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
P'RIMARY:   TOTAL                     71.0         77.0         98.0               101.2                       105.0
MALE                      86.0         83.0        104.0                106.0                      106.3
FEMALE                    58.0         71.0         91.0                 97.5                      103.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                       6.0         15.0         28.0                 44.9                       40.0
MALE                      10.0         20.0         33.0                 50.0                       38.6
FEMALE                     3.0         10.0         22.0                44.6                        41.2
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)             20.4         22.1         15.5                 18.5                       34.0
PUPIL-TEAClHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               39.0         29.0         34.0                 32.7                       30.7
SE'CONDARY                            14.0         13.0         16.0                 23.4                       16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                 39.0         56.6         62.0/g               72.9                       79.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              1.1          2.1          3.S/g                9.7                       45.6
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             7.2         21.9         42.4                113.7                      228.2
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                0.1          0.8          9.6                 50.1                      108.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INI'EREST') CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                11.0           ..         17.7/d               54.0                       64.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA          2.S           ..          0.8/c                3.4                        2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)            34791.0      41090.0      53604.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      27.8         30.9         29.2                 33.6                       24.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 75.0         66.0         55.0                 50.9                       31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     8.0         10.0         15.0                19.2                        23.9
PARTICIPATTON RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 36.7         35.4         35.9                 38.6                       31.3
MALE                                  54.2         49.5         51.1                 50.7                       49.8
FE,ALE                                20.0         21.6         20.6                26.6                        14.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2          1.3          1.2                  1.1                        1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED bY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..           ..         23.5/d              22.2
HILHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..           ..         49.47d              48.0
LOWEST 204 OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..           ..          6.6/d                6.4
LOWEST 402 OF HIOUSEHOLDS               ..           ..         14.47d               15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..        136.0/g             194.5                       289.8
RURAL                                   ..           ..        112.0/g             155.0                       184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                          1 ..  119.O/g       178.0                       519.8
RURAL                                   ''           ''         98.0Tg             164.8                       372.1
ESTIMATES POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (x)
URBAN                                   ..           ..         28,0/g               24.4
RURAL                                   ..           ..         51.0lg              41.1                          .                            -
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1962; /g 1978.
May 1983



-- 29 -                                                                    ANNEX  I
DFNTCSOF SOCIAL MIATR                                                        Page   3  of   5  pages
Notes:  Altho-gh tIcr data are dr-aw  fra        rro-     enrlyjde   the eas  sothoettattr- And rettable, it shouLd  lsa. be noted that they oay oat be itatcortoaatty
rospurable  troose al te lack at  raadardloeddettn-Ilan   andtolarepta ased by dillfer.et  .ao..ctee  to  totlert, thedt.   The data are,  ...antbetees, ofa  ta
deort. be orerIf .agaitled, iadloate troods, ard ho araiertl so  tertt  moJre differearas brtaenootrea
The rfere... g ...pa are 11) the.. sas  tto.try grou.p of the sobjets toary a 'd(2  a oaatsy groap   ith saeshat htgthrsarag   mooe sh.a she  -a r PRoa  of tbe
-adr oory  erpo  far  dIgI lor-r' Oill Eoarort  topohetedd I   Aos   arhdrtta aod Middle toes   Is thoo-eo ber..a. of atrogr ootoeatoa
all  Itatter.   Iv Io  re  rat   rupdt   heartaie yaoata    ethr   acitheta   eastteaPtottro   ndabr  ay aher oujartay tf the enriete  to a
group hao doatar thtIdtaa.ltr    h  raeae o1 f oaattteaeo   th   tdteI                             s   drpod0  the ana litblily atdtaP             dtotturlea,rittrath
osserood  o reor tg a--rgoa al roe tad tooter roa         htr.  These anerges ee  arty aeral to topalt   l   air  af or .tdirttato                    atatsei-    g   h  taarry aod
9?01 (oaoad   nqir.                                                                                     Pptttto er  hyaott60Poalato  letdd by oasbec at peaartctog
'la        oa   ufato  ar-   t-rpelato   land are  and tolaa    aee   9t                         physltans qotte   moasdoa a'oha                          oraiytnt
191aa   910 doca.                                                                               Pouatrpe   ictg   eao  oo                  artdss dtot dedb  ooiebe,ty o   rire
sglotel- Eoaioatr of agrli*t aral Area osed troyarartly or pesnnipsl   a rdegraPaersoanr,aatro -dolesa by -eor-a PIop_ea a
tteps patres,1,-sos  and kttrhe. gardeat or s  ite tatto; ithO,                               dnIuesteg  a       gttrtes .ed_
GNP PER CAPITA                               ke                                  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rbao, Pod crl.%) dtatdjd by thetc reap-rtesse   f  optlbd
aurttdby tus                                                                                                                  dIattarehda   ar1to    tls199t  hss;..at.stnroer    ttpsl   r   eattbeeo Is hcer iaett  scatte
190,t9l,an   1981 bOo,          d-                                                                by' at,Ar....  - least arebl. pys rta..tthi. rnt.rottg   prtoopltlpdohsrndlal
,oa   lig. I.,   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ oreea Istte e.    coral hoaPtriale, horerl, to-tade health and
191910lh5ll9PTlO  lEt CPITO     ovoll.I a Iuro  t.,rsasTtatteoratnda addrotars sal-rt                                          Ierea tsy stalled by a physitola  (bat by a aedttat
4                     yttcat~~~~pr1yenocgy  (calao  lgat ,  artan   aua  ga                   yr-,r  varlerdis.tarast eres,edte.ea)rthotrt-r  rtsaesdte   n
add  ga Pcn l elorarlly) la kl lorao  of roal eqotoatent per trptta;                                       proide aI,ts tre  rage of raltoal fattd           e. oettsltipraa
1960, 1970, atd 19t0 data.trahsytlinod drs pItotr l/gesea  hoptl,r                                                                                                             o   aa
eyTAI- el aS 11   TAITCpedllle    iost."  are totladeda onl  o                                                                                                       Iode..ltto.
TotalPrlnfo  ro-er)boaat                       a of Jo1p  1; 1960. 1970, and 1991                      aPlaos  r   tsetlRd-.Inset  Illhy  atd adtetotnoo   tsh
drata                                                 lbnhsynat  iided by the Paaber of beds..
Itftetd tCnatnsn    rorba  areasay alers rasParabtttty at dana                             HOttING
.anoooat            1960INh, 1978, sad lit8 data.                                                     AvrgPie   ltasb                prte   a  haead  -  otl,aba, and raeal
Popalartoo ta year 200t -  anre-   ytpullAire PeoJeottos ar  based on1080                               an IteI   n        -imats.A bho.eder or lodger say or say not be  lrodd   te
total   .. pyatton by age and  -o  and  bIe  orltpsdferin                                           she hoshol.      oesiiata    puepsto
rae P rojartiaa  pur.arnana f.r noal ity rates   'rspisea   he                                  hneeh-hoolda  nras  ,Pr1 poos   oa,aht   o  tetaraeoa
Iraittat,   mato                                        -bIaoo   Iorptat    thlieisg  at 77.5         d_elas  r-peotin-ly.  D-lig    ald    n-eraetseiae   n
p-rt- ir   oastt   o  fertIlItyJraaf.ottobty                three leel                                anotoactrdtparse,
ost..orto    rln    otrtlt    radn   tohtroor tene                                                                    .. eslstyAtsaaieo ity I lrcret of adlliogs) - total, arha,  n   aral
roboa fc at n..r.. t  aol feIrtilt  trends..l  br  feo        th..o . ~sPoI.o  toost,i Irhan,an  raraldelaaeette
Itatlatary popnlatlooIata   oar    oaavo   heei  sgo
a tterh  birth  r    La Is eqal to sIn drath rate, atd also  the age thtEDCATION
aarattaroreootostavttaat.  fib  ts arbteoed ae~~~~Ily alter feetiltry rtsAdJusted Eora1lseos  RItao
.derlorl to . the r .p..ret level.. nI l -tf net cProydTast-n rate y                                  Prie el-at  anh,,, - total, sale and female - Gra.. total, sale and tasals
dot  grati'rn ofae-snparsbat aar                     le.  The ,ratiasaof                                enro _lsans at all aes at the prtsacy Canal as   e-rroages ataepf               tn
papal , atir    l asno  otda the yr        nsis0  add th.rrpojie fd-therttof                            prisar  shol-_Pg I Polaltsooa;   -11aYl fntlades  hbldnen  aged 6-11
lotlr  ad  Ie  prolatao  Inthe  ear  110,  id  se car  al  eelo   at         eseshat edja tad tar differder leogsth  of prisery Idaef;fr
lorliIsprte  toryaeradol                                                                              oostrie   aith o-tareal ndunutanenerul1s-,t  ray rrn    9   art
lirsataaa Paraloaio  ha-rao'hed -h fir year ebntantioo...ytie saeypiaehloortathe tfta shlg.
panltla  to    aIl  heteahed.                                                               henodae  atho l -r~ totl,11 00Cr band lel  - Imputed  as0. ab ;senndr
P                                                                                                            JPoilati Dooereda rtotqairesat leas.t foot years of epor  prsay    doscnt y
Pe60,h.-tIdpa  popultionper oqro-   kilosetee  (111  hertare-) ofT                               Proie  g.enerl,oanl,              at teather iaoo    ototls   o
attao,196.17,ao   90ba                                                                              papIs   sal  a            02t   Pyears of age; oarreapaoddarse toisees et
oula; 13960, 1970 avd 1980 data.,. nouia-alyenrollon    prtd                                                                              fseodr)      oaioa   osto
tpalltuo    Alantehonot    r1orratI   Citldren  10-14 pears), oatkla,-ogo 15                              toa..lade      1  . tebirl  Indo .trPIs, or . dothee prgrrasoidab opeatetI t...o
64  eas),an   reland ~(hi' persl aod  -ar) aspeetaes  of rid-lear                               enl   ta   eatet   taoadry  tnheotPitattraeootp,
,dprlatioa 1 1960, 1970, ard 1981 dots                                                               Peoil-t-serberatio - prisary, and  _eaond-ry- Ta-   stodonts socoled to
eapo~2lasan GrowthEdtonADerns            oa   - ...ona  groah rates at total old-                         petisary and ....ardary lenels divided by nuebherofaMetss  otete
esr  ...p..asi-nfar 1950-60, 19h0-70, ao-91-1rpoodlog  Iov-ls.
Raaotarohaaarot-ru-ralesbatteesshs                                                              atltr yaa             rs.rrro9- terate ad.ott(ale lto  toad addaeise)s
p'paalo fo 196, 19808    o  1971-81.                                                                    ae  . eroerge or r-nl adat papalarlra aged lb pear  and  ar-r
Crab. llrtb tote (pie sho....ad) - Aoud 1hoe births per thousand at rid-
feeinuaho;1960, 1970, al18    aa                                                                    lSOTO
Cra  llruar  Sate (Per thousand) - Arl   tasi  Perr thoaoad of ald-pea                                 P..a..ge.  Cars leer h5...satd rrlto)-P.assnger oars  -onyrta  actr
Iroso IRep-da-tia  REa-bcerage oaoatagieaona 11haroaltsyebtts
her oordal roytndntataipeidf P          bo e parienteportaesaii radio 9tp-ii.raies(a   haodeplt)-All types                                                                        %fetinr   oe radia
hel  Cp ratr; atnl   flepnI         vrgs,  iodo   td 1960, 1970, and                             brodoats !to general poit         -ertaad at iopaIietIaa;toltdas
Aatrlnot-retors11         IIIcaai)houoands) -a-...Iaanbetfaraeptoes                             stass. inertleto ;data far ree t yearsiayntterap-oe1leiote sas
oi birah-dtrro loro   rodet            " oupred ol atin... Itanly platnoi1                              ....tteI ahl tst    1 tioslog
peageutP.ITV Oeo_trrs (ro,e, sbonsand poptlatita) -; TVetio slo  berodoast no
Palr   loon-loots  ) p..r.at of narried nune.) - Peroennag   of na,elo!5,,.a  rito  parI thn-ard pnpnlatton,e_calearniten...d TVrtta
sorof  i  l-raig   t   11_44 Yor--   aha ron bira-rontral d_lreo  ri,, avacteto  and lv yoar  alto  toi-oteas  onfa TI sets                                          ai.fft
al  sorib a-ne  invot  age g-oa.                                                               OorerCtluta(iihsaopualv)-Shaso  tInh                                    org
1000- ot! Foodft                                                                                            leolald-o  dfrtp,i..aroy  lteto.st             I    I_napt  denia t an a. petrota
Ine raeod. Paddhrprl:s    lt-1h(-llia1prrps                                                          rloao    ear   rerl   to-ocol-  gieoral s.eat.   t   srn ei
aoirulpedorcauaofulllaroooeadolit.   rtvatstovnrladeasalasd                              taofatly'n    Itoppetstatldattoaotiesadeek
Ied Iavb in oraledar pey     baln      C-moditiera e           isat..ygaadds(e.g                  Cl-. aaatul lnvtr lPsePeCapit, err  Yeae-                 r  P  Isolas abortIf
trgartta..i_ntrd of toda r) elta, rdttle aod  -antat   -artaat  (e.g.                                   rhrorell dandtepr,aastg    disosvIrfe-In itoasus add
rotOs ao  tea" are .aldo ....d            lte  Prndaoaa        'athar  totays                                 ile -its.
based anoniavalaaag polripiestt; 7196-65, 1970,-aid 198
dtaa,                                                                                              lAtOt POsts
F.er _atoa -ayply   frlrn    prota   eutmoo                         oprdfa                              Tonal Cbaor Pare. (otauu-do) -E tr.t.sLr-y ettiro  per.oas, IntPItg.o,!
eace gy eni tiv   of se_fold _opplta          cala            eaIt rlyte  pee ra pita per               larest.od    aeoployrd hat e-tladiog thoe..s.s"e"s"at,    oas
lap.   nA-ilbls  sopplios irspat I      avsad    prdnoton   isport P espptatta   s  aPaIa_lbtioslveir rstnies are  o
ropoess, aid   agss  stat   le               pIts e-tlde oniei teed, sedbe,                             imputable; 1961, 1'970 Pandrl9O8  data.
.rott .s.e  toI foal pro..sig,avd looses tn dtstrlhtioo.                                           reae  pen     FIn.a leabar tone. as perr-atge at total Isbr torte,
Iteq heeso_Ilarot  estha_ad by FAO bsa-d 00 physinlogiral olead  foe nos-a                              Agnrt.ltaer.  erao        - Labor toter ,lv ta iottg, t...sney,hootin  and
arivit  aId hot    aai_rog           _o ocatl-eperstate, body seighti,                                    fIshing as p-rreotage of totaIltabore fare.; 6h,1970 end 19 8,1 dto.
ago  o   e     Isrlti aat. p65 palato, sod olloaivg 10 prorrat toe oer                                  Idstytpreo      LabeaI fort.e tv staog, toos.trPoat.. ton, ..asfrtra,l
athboroetd loo1; 1961-, 1970 aol 19B0 dasa.                                                             sod ci1-tririty,  atsrradd geu   e eta_-stag  at total labor forte ; 1960,
falyptaspt ofpoti  (             pensra  day) - Pro trio        PItnta  pet topita                  1970al  91   aa
ro opy of fodPer da. o   _appy  l flond is defIned as atone.                                    Partlilpartn   at  (eroea  - t0aal, ro.le, and fernalr- Fsrliiparion  e
Hoqat fsioa lo   oilIooorino  estab lIshed by UStDA P-oeled toe  ittoniotyrae   are ramylatd  as total, male, * ed female labo  totea
all 6noeno   hIt5i0   If taro  prosia pe, dsp aol 20 geass atsf ne a               ol..                 paasta        atP .   total, nalt aol feabe poy.ataitos of allF age  eep     _tirl;
pe.    ratoir, or otilb  IC groins uauld be anioal pentlai.  These                                  1960, 1970, sad 1981 data,  These are laced on ILCs  partitipation  ease
stan dardsart loner. tI- shtso  71 tears of  Itota  proteso aol 23 geese                                teflllleig ag-e         ta tor   athse r.pataslon, sad 1oegatiratrnsd . A
of a-h. ottoaaaeal   o   b  o-eld, proposed byfA  tshe                                                  fo      frttaie ataFanoialsres
Th~ird O,red food Irertly  1g61-65, 1979,aol 19t0 data,                                                trEoronic teyrdeoty Ostio    R atio at paplalot-  ndor lb end h5 a-d  -oer so
Pe   n  eatocirrY      Tro   Oobalalpulse- ptonte    upya  fool                                   its  totl labor tarot
b                      ~~~~~derivol fran aana    o  pIIirn  Co gtran   pen day; 1961-65,190ad97
Chdta (ugr   I-4) Iruoh  Ptat  (per thossa.d) - Aotual deaho         a  thousand lvPeensstge atf Pro-oItoee                                 ht I a..o~t  oseb- endhind) - Rscee-d to dirhest S
ag   ra    -1 yiars, to ohildten  to thto  age group; trasdeveopn                                 petoet, Riaas  20 rerrot,eaoa2   rin                         poreot h0 perreneo   If
i-otries data doriead fras life tables, 1960, 1970 sOd 191hsa                                            olanh.lds
7Tl ,to r-o ...at. llntb  (years) -  aseage ouster of yearo of life re..atolug                        Tb. tel se          2-neten  are nary oppran toast nleeures at p-oety leas, endd
at bIth      969, 1970 tadl 1981 data.                                                                  sheol  be  Int-ptelatt-ih tun-id-rbl  cs-tJtoo.
latot lorollr lir(nor tb..a.ood) - AurldaN    ftie                  ne   n                       itEstr   d       Idslt   ort   nneIe LS(n)-  ropiol.  - vahes ond ntal
year of agP psrth.....id live birlhs; 1961, 1710 cad198  data.                                          Abouepv yi-rue level  atailtnelo    btloosu a1=                                I'ell
auras of lotn Cater  cpiev..  at  pu,pultlat) - total, aetas, and tarot1 -                                osteit ....l AIlqusre dirt ipus es..ettialInafon   rqIres. s  Isco
neador of yonefrtPobt                  _n total)  ith reasonable an.... ta tale                         affordable.
_tnrr suPply(olu- irte    ariai  aser  o  unteated  bat                                              Ettiostad Oraivei  P-rtyl la.... lea1 (thy  PIrr taytta) -   brha  as   total-
unrorostootd ourr bobas thtIlea  Prot ertd   orehalos, springs,  end                          natal relsliv   p-varey tiev  leve  Is oar-third oaeree peroais
-sitory   n11t( a  p-ortealgat of thei  reayP_stPa rNlatiu..s.  Is at                                   persosol iti...e of she aoaotry.  lets0  leve  is deeied from   htresr1
rba   area.a pobllr fvo-tain or asandpast basted not.r n te ho  200 -ortarnI te iohadjas                                     -to tan higher roar at lining  in arba  a ems.
fros a baro II  a hye roosidorsd as being stilh      . renablte Pon        f that                   tEtimated Popula~tion ltelao Absolae Invret   nonse. leni(eains)-ahi
irt. I -ual stoat reasarubla ororas oald irplp  sirstnbe hoateeife or                            end auralI         callen  of Popatusidn  (ahEo' end toarl) ott ore ".boluse
va-hot  of tie brsabld do not bonePto spend a dtayrapot iioann   part ofalP
tP daryalerIn ith  feal   5 soeareas
Adr-oa to Earri   Diap-anl (p Pte        o  yplatic)-tos ,  tbn,ed
rural -NlobnooPI oaP.        toooia                 ...vavdeo tl(scd bfrtt
asp Ior ledn  tha  -allearin aold  iaposl,slab ort anhou  ter-a-otn,                                                                           Eh rlonli  oaf Snrisl Dsal  Dilc.iat
bh-    art   n  etensee,aae-vt    yts  or- t.1he se of pitl                                                                              ltaomt  aalysis soddPojnsov              ep-rtnen
prliois andslie   ias-llaOtooo.                                                                                                                               bly 1983



ANNEX I
- 30 -                                            Page 4 of 5 pages
Population      :  152.6 million (mid-1982)
GNP per Capita:  US$580 (1982 estimate)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDI]CATORS
Arnual growth rate (%) /a
Amount
(million US$ at                                                                          Estimated
current prices)                               actual                                     Projected
IndLcator                             1981            1975   1976   1977   1978  1979    1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /b         85,486            5.0    6.9    8.9    7.7    6.3    9.9    7.9   -0.1           1.4    5.1    7.1
Agriculture                     21,587            0.0    4.7    1.3    5.2    3.9    5.2    4.9    2.1    2.6    3.1    3.1
Industry                        34,668            5.6   11.1   14.2    8.7    7.1   12.5    8.5   -1.9    1.0    9.4   11.4
Services                        29,231           10.1    5.9   12.5    9.2    7.7   11.8    9.8    5.5    1.0    2.0    5.0
Consumption                       66,308            6.4    7.9    5.6    8.9   13.6   13.1   15.8    3.9    0.4   -0.1            4.5
Gross investment                  18,280           14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    4.4   17.7   11.1   13.0   -8.1            5.0    6.0
Exports of GNFS                   23,309           -2.4   17.0    9.5    1.0   -0.1   -5.7   -2.4  -10.4   -1.2   12.8   11.1
Intports of GNFS                  22,411           11.7   16.8    4.4   12.7   22.5   16.9   27.1   10.4  -12.0   -4.2            2.0
Gross national savings            17,016          -16.3   14.2   30.2  -17.5   62.5   33.2  -20.0  -19.0           5.4   28.4   15.3
PRICES
GtiP deflator (1973 - 100)                          166    190    214    238    315    407    448    484    581    668    741
Exchange rate                                       415    415    415    442    623    627    632    661    970    970    970
Share of GDP at market prices (%)
(at current prices)                                  Average annual increase (%) /a
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990          1960-70    1970-75      1975-80      1980-85     1985-90
Gross domestic product        100    100    100    100    100    100             3.9           8.4         7.4         4.2         5.1
Agriculture                  54      47     32      25      25      23         2.7          4.1          3.3         3.2         4.0
Industry                     14      18     34      43      41      41         5.2         12.0          9.8         4.2         5.1
Services                     32     35      35      32      34      36         4.8          9.7          9.5         4.6         6.0
Consumption                  91     89      79      71      73      74         4.1          8.4          9.2         4.7         5.4
Gross investment              8      14     20      21      22      23         4.8         18.3         12.2         5.1         6.0
Exports of GNFS              13      13     23      31      27      25         3.6          9.2          2.9        -1.1         3.9
Imports of GNFS            -13    -16    -22    -22    -22    -22              3.2         22.1         14.0         3.8         5.3
Gross national savings        8       9      17     26      23      23         6.1         23.1         14.2         2.6         4.5
As % of GDP
1960          1970            1975           1980            1982
PUBLIC FINANCE /c
Cuirrent revenues                                                   11.7         10.1             17.4            22.5           23.2
Current expenditures                                                14.0          8.4              9.9            12.8           11.7
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                          -2.3         +1.6             -7.5           +9.7           +11.4
Capital expenditure                                                 n.a.          5.0             11.3            13.0           14.5
Foreign financing                                                   0.2           3.5              3.7             3.3            3.1
1960-70         1970-75             1975-80          1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Antnual GNP growth rate (%)                               4.5              7.6                 7.1             4.2              5.2
Anrnual GNP per capita growth rate (Z)                    2.4             5.1                  4.7             1.8              3.1
AnrLual energy consumption growth rate CE)                2.2             11.2                11.0             5.6              5.2
ICOR                                                      2.2             2.2                  3.3             5.4              4.3
Marginal savings rate                                     0.30             0.48                0.28            0.15             0.3
Import elasticity                                         1.2             2.8                 0.84             0.11             1.03
/a At constant 1973 prices for 1975-1981, and 1981 prices for 1982-1985.
7T At market prices.
/c  Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.                         East Asia and Pacific Programs
October 5, 1983



ANNEX I
- 31 -                                             Page 5 of 5 pages
Population    :  152.6 million (mid-1982)
GNP per Capita:  US$580 (1982 estimate)
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                                      Estimated Projected
Indicator                    1977      1978      1979      1980      1981    1982        1983      1984      1985      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
1.  Exports                              10,861   11,353   13,510   22,885   22,994   19,524   17,540    20,907   25,437   47,398
(a)  Oil & LNG (gross)                7,354    7,374   12,340   17,297   18,824   15,631   13,370    15,638   19,425   33,931
(b)  Nonoil                           3,507    3,979    6,171    5,587    4,170    3,893    4,170            5,269    6,012   13,467
2.  Imports (including net NFS)         -10,686  -11,493  -13,205  -17,589  -22,096  -22,773  -20,020   -20,983  -23,164  -40,345
(a)  Oil sector                     -2,909   -3,364   -2,940   -4,050   -5,407   -5,468   -4,357    -4,135   -4,398   -6,899
.4               (b)  Nonoil imports                  -7,241   -7,543   -9,028  -11,837  -14,022  -14,893  -13,698   -15,069  -17,110  -31,646
(c)  NFS (net)                         -536      -586   -1,237   -1,702   -2,667   -2,411   -1,965    -1,779   -1,656   -1,800
3.  Resource balance                         175     -140    5,305    5,296          898   -3,249   -2,480          -76    2,273    6,913
4.  Factor services                        -865   -1,015   -3, 106   -3,165   -3,267   -3,566   -3,898    -4,625   -5,599   -9,380
(a)  Interest public debt              -441      -485      -635      -724      -820   -1,464   -1,494    -1,803   -2,098   -3,031
(b)  Other (net)                       -424      -530   --2,471   -2,441   -2,447   -2,102   -2,404    -2,822   -3,501   -6,349
5.  Capital grants                            66        46        52        76        67       100       100        100       100       100
6.  Balance on current account             -624   -1,109    2,198    2,131   -2,302   -6,715   -6,278    -4,601   -3,227   -2,367
7.  Direct foreign investment                285       271       217       140       139       276       350        350       400       700
8.  Public M & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                     1,956    1,638    1,939    2,864    3,203    4,383    5,411            5,592    5,733    6,973
(b)  Amortization                      -825      -977   -1,335       -987   -1,001   -1,146   -1,541    -1,943   -2,297   -4,866
(c)  Net disbursements                1,131       660       604    1,877    2,202    3,237    3,870          3,648    3,436    2,107
9.  Other capital (net)                    -140        888   -1,329   -1,248        -539       -78    2,675         480    1,174        615
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)    -651          -708   -1,690   -2,736          988    3,280       -617        123   -1,783   -1.055
11.  Net official reserves                 2,208    2,916    4,606    7,342    6,354    3,074    3,724             3,636    5,485   10,115
Reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                         3.4       4.3       5.4       6.5       4.4       2.1       2.9        2.6       3.5       3.5
Memorandum Item
Net foreign assets of the banking
system /b                                  -         -    6,906   10,787   11,154    7,674    7,824           7,236    8,685   13,315
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                            3.4       4.3       8.1       9.6       7.8       4.7       6.2        5.2        5.5      4.6
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /c
Gross Disbursements                      1,956    2.205    1,865    2,536    2,729
Concessional Loans                         442       484        433       659       792
Bilateral                                381       448       399       611       718
IDA                                       49        29        30        42        69
Other                                     12         6          5         6         5
Nonconcessional Loans                    1,514    1,721    1,432    1,858    1,937
Official export credits                  218       271        61        44       165
1BRD                                     191       168       199       331       314
Other multilateral                        16        12        46        52        86
Private - source                       1,089    1,270    1,126    1,449    1,372
External Debt
Debt outstanding & disbursed /d   11,658   13,107   13,234   14,882   15,737
Official - source                    7,077    8,390    8,434    9,400   10,114
Private  - source                    4,583    4,717    4,799    5,482    5,623
-Undisbursed debt                      4,475    5,839    7,932    9,454   11,354
Debt Service
Total service payments                 1,262    2,062    2,100    1,772    1,974
Interest                               441       514       771       819       973
Payments as % exports /e                11.6      18.2      11.3       7.7       9.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(z)                                      6.3       7.6       6.6       8.2       8.6
Official - source                        5.6       4.6       5.0       5.5       7.9
Private  - source                        8.6      10.2       8.6      12.3       9.2
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                                 20.5      18.8      18.6      18.6      15.2
Official - source                       23.8      30.1      24.8      24.4      20.8
b               Private  - source                        9.1       8.7      11.0       9.9       10.6
As % of debt outstanding at end of 1982
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                                     40
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                                    69
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                                  5.7
/a  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
7h  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
/c  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
7   At end of period.                                                                                      East Asia and Pacific Programs
Te  Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                            October 5, 1983



ANNEX II
-32 -                      Page I of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1983) /a
US$ million
Loan/                                                                   Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                          Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Sixteen Loans and thirty-seven Credits fully disbursed  760.5    544.1            -
479   L974   Bali Tourism                                     -       16.0       0.4
1100  1975   Sixth Irrigation                               65.0        -        5.5
1197  1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping             13.0        -        1.6
1237  1976   Fourth Education                               37.0        -        2.9
1250  1L976   Second Shipping                               54.0        -        0.5
1268  ]L976   Seventh Irrigation                            33.0        -        5.9
1336  ]L977   Second Urban Development                      52.5        -        4.5
1337  1.977   Tanjung Priok Port                            32.0        -        4.8
1365  1977   Sixth Power                                   116.0        -       25.7
1373  1.977   Nutrition Developmenit                        13.0        -        0.3
1433  1.977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education              19.0        -        4.7
1434  1977   Eighth Irrigation                              63.0        -       27.2
1435  1977   Ninth Irrigation                               35.0        -        4.2
1472  1977   Second Population                              24.5        -        6.6
1486  1978   Non-Formal Education                           15.0        -        4.0
1499  1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders I              65.0        -       22.5
1513  1978   Seventh Power                                  94.0        -       27.2
785  1978   Small Enterprise Development                     -      40.0        7.6
1578  1978   Tenth Irrigation                              140.0        -      101.1
1579  1978   Eleventh Irrigation                            31.0        -       11.6
827  1978   Rural Credit                                     -       30.0       2.5
1604  1978   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders II               65.0        -       45.4
869  1979   Polytechnic                                      -      49.0       22.2
1645  19379   Twelfth Irrigation                            77.0        -       42.1
1653  1979   Third Urban Development                        54.0        -       19.6
898  1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                       -      10.0        8.2
1691  1'979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control             50.0        -       27.0
1692  1979   Second Agricultural Training                   42.0        -       11.0
1696  1979   Fifth Highway                                 123.2        -       70.1
1703  1979   Fourth BAPINDO                                 50.0        -        7.2
919  1979   Transmigration II                                -      67.0       15.1
1707  1979   Transmigration II                              90.0        -       87.8
1708  1979   Eighth Power                                  175.0        -       60.1
1709  1979   Second Water Supply                            36.0        -      40.2
/a    Thte status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.



ANNEX II
- 33 -                     Page 2 of 4 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                         Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
946  1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                    -       12.0       8.1
1751  1980   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders III             99.0        -       59.3
984  1980   Smallholder Rubber Development                  -       45.0      31.6
995  1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                                    45.0      25.2
996  1980   National Agriculture Extension II               -       42.0      34.9
1811  1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                        116.0        -       78.4
1835  1980   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders IV              42.0        -       34.3
1840  1980   National Agricultural Research                35.0        -       35.0
1014  1980   National Agricultural Rtesearch                 -       30.0      21.7
1869  1980   Third Population                              35.0        -       29.5
1872  1980   Ninth Power                                  253.0        -      166.1
1898  1981   Smallholder Coconut Devrelopment              46.0        -       37.3
1904  1981   University Development                        45.0        -       41.9
1950  1981   Tenth Power                                  250.0        -      156.3
1958  1981   Swamp Reclamation                             22.0        -       16.4
1972  1981   Fourth Urban Development                      43.0        -       35.1
2007  1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V            161.0        -      144.2
2011  1981   Second Small Enterprise Development          106.0        -       18.7
2049  1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                      85.0        -       85.0
2056  1982   Eleventh Power                               170.0        -      146.9
2066  1982   Second Seeds                                  15.0        -       14.8
2079  1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining
Development & Transport                    185.0       -       144.8
2083  1982   Rural Roads Development                      100.0        -       84.5
2101  1982   Second Teacher Training                       80.0        -       79.7
2102  1982   Second Textbook                               25.0        -       25.0
2118  1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                          37.0        -       34.7
2119  1982   Seventeenth Irrigation                        70.0        -       64.2
2120  1982   National Fertilizer Distribution              66.0        -       63.0
2126  1982   Nucleus Est. & Smallholders VI                68.1        -       66.8
2153  1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                  25.0        -       24.6
2199  1982   Central Java Pulp & Paper                      5.5        -        4.9
Engineering Project
2214  1983   Twelfth Power                                300.0        -      293.8
2232  1983   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders VII            154.6        -      152.3
2235  1983   Provincial Health                             27.0        -       26.6
2236  1983   Jakarta Sewerage & Sanitation                 22.4        -       22.2
2248  1983   Transmigration III                           101.0        -       99.5
2258  1983   Public Works Yanpower Development             30.0        -       29.8
Project
2275  1983   East Java Water Supply I                      30.6        -       30.5
2277  1983   BAPINDO V                                    208.9        -      208.9
2288  1983   Transmigration IV                             63.5        -       62.6
2290  1983   Second Polytechnic                           107.4        -      107.1



ANNEX II
-34 -                       Page 3 of 4 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                  Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                  (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                           Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
2300  1983   Thirteenth Power /a                            279.0       -       279.0
2341  1984   Third Agriculture Training /a                   63.3       -        63.3
2344  1984   Nucleus Estate & Smallholder Sugar /a           79.2       -        79.2
Total Bank loans and IDA credits            6,076.15   930.10
Of which has been repaid                     -241.83    -9.70
Total now outstanding                       5,834.32   920.40
Amount sold to third party         28.24
Amount repaid by third party    -27.21         -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA/b            5,833.29   920.40
Total undisbursed                           3,797-50   177.50  3,975.00
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 35~ -ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                               Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year         Obligor                business           ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement             10.6      2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles            2.5      0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  l'extiles             2.0      0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         C'able              2.8      0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         T'extiles           4.5       1.5       6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    l'ourism             11.0       -        11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              5.4      0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles              2.0      0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan           Electronics          0.9       -         0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.      -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles            2.4      0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              5.0      1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles            0.4        -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex               'rextiles            1.3      0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles            0.9       -         0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera         Capital Market      4.0      1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1       0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas           Cement and
Indonesia              Construction
Material         48.0      5.0       53.0
1982   P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market        4.0      0.3        4.3
Total gross commitments                       118.8      18.0     136.8
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled            82.6       5.7       88.3
Total held by IFC                              36.2      12.3       48.5
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   -           -          -



- 36 -                             ANNEX II.
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:   2 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:   Directorate General of Highways
(c)  First presented to the Bank:            November 1982
(d) Date of First Bank mission to
consider project:                       February 1983
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                                May 1983
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:  February 1984
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:          July 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government will:
(a) in its Land Transportation Development Program which will be
completed by April 1, 1985 and furnished to the Bank for review and
comment, evaluate the impact of the tax law dated December 31, 1983,
on road user contributions and, in consultation with the Bank,
promptly prepare a follow-up action plan (para. 28); and
(b) by December 31, 1984, prepare an action plan for vehicle weight and
axle load control, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 36)



2T_~    ___ffAND               _ _                                                                         IBRD IA'                                                            '55                                Is'                                                                            AyB 7532
'rTHAILANID                                                                                                                                                              r5                                 3)ir1rJSArt
-  V                                                                                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INsONSESA
PHILIPPINSES                                                       TRANSPORTATION NETWORK
vl ;- . MALAY~ A           BF'Ui4BI                                                  2           2           z           /          MAd'uE   RC'A
1FUNLI  7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                             IS
34 5 I<_iR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ' '   A TSAPA,
TI-                                   P OwAyR A'S
-:~ ~~ ~~~~~-'ACk                                                                               --    -kin                                                                         AM \  7 ALASA,                                                                       -ITRAIhLSUDRE
A'  >---J -;11 /qq   ~   t  _>  Yd! r        _                        Izn-- o                                                                            /-'--
i          r -    2+   g;a    t  ,~~~~~~-                                                                                                   'i,,rU<                      g    NI;                                                                                        rsI ;
| ~~~~~~~~~~~8                                         '                 73- 82"  C     --_X>r
R+ n7'                                                                 L                                                                                                      ;Ci; [   'y;7  AC    FOA3ri- .;M .' Z
-  -    '-5sNs                                                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                           4oo;.'W
. anih  44<S/     t_ >$                                                                                                                                                                                    .t - --,          t '
*-bV.IdrT f,lluNasvi >uB,Ld,w,,! g r SturBES Wr t @ z c , f . .,-SAmA                                                                                                              R    EEA
EMS _,SRFAOM'0R RsW  *l *AS  -I R 55  "  1        -    _  ; -            ,,  D
EM7'                                 555'                                                                                                         109 01~                                                                  S                                   55                 ;                 u13'__- ti



I



IBRD I 7533
950                       150    00,    0000008080800>                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~JANU-ARY    964
rab n s E fo    ...9A    A .L  A  Y  S A/
k Mulebv   <  . ) T </Ow                                                _           )                   t15 (C000800000000,800S  0)   0o
\Capaktuan~ ~~~~~~~~~~000 TO WPomd 08000              0                >0                        OLLOOO
b        v 2       * t sRotauRraReR>    t;                         fX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AW                                                2     0
L3hE29t,   X,   W D    /A,     /         WSh & i?    -   i\S    </ \ BlINTAN
oo                   r ,2       2    t  LVk-k°A]SfT'nttU>  99 S  ~~~~~~~~~U " M   A   T    E   R',,'A 
0~ ~ ~~ ~9 c,' AtPykmU /                                                           ,) ,
SIE;ERUT\,>X                              <           >Mt             a~~                      r  ,'BANGKA
091 T ont<_ /8>yg - J \ ,, E I/,, < <BEL ITUNG
INDONESIA                              ;t                                                    k       v          '               '-
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT cuDi ' '.-r
SUMATERA                                                        t              J         ,f=rbmsh 
PROPOSED PROJEgrEnk                                                          \uig nf/ / <  
----HIGHWAY BETTERMENT (PHASE I)                                                       \    f- 4              <
-----_  HIGHWAY UPGRAtIING / REHABILITATION (YEAR M 1)   
BS RIDGE REPLACEMENT (PHASE V'9na9>\f it 
5U  CONSTRUCTION AND )MPR0VFMENTS4LOAAN610 K35-IND.                     rqntun         , <//1000
-        NATIONAL HIGHWAYS             LOAN 069 I                             '    SIN'            \nPORE
PROVINCIAL ROADS                                                                                S       hlad 
------  LOCAL ROADS
+_ RAIIWAYS
.-J .   PORTS                                                                                                      !
,01    AIRPORTS
-    -    PROVINCiAL BOUNDARIES
4                           -   -  ~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                        'J    A   W    A
100°                                                                                  901000000080



VI



IBRD 175,34
INDONESIA                                                JANUARY 1984
SUMATERA    I
HIGHWAY BETTERMENT PROJECT
JAW A
.   \D  Q   \_   r                                                                                   .  .   1. ' '                   5  ,r \ !                                                         :  :                                                             e GHWoV UPGRA lNa / REHARILITATIOM (TEAR aI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-0,004   AORAINOIROA6LITTIN   YAR
N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PRETIOUS ::Occ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I  CU ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U 140~~RVOU   RICT    R 20ID
-        .OORNETRLORION ARC IMPROOTRENRE    LOAN 164N  INO.
<>V-   .J!P"th _f -                                                                                                                                                                                                    _       .ATlpNAL HIGHWAYS                       LOAN 504a ND~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NAIOALO4SOOT  ~oo  249N
TESAIDIIAL ROADS                         DD        .
--         LOCAL ROCDS
.444,                                                                                                 IN     AIOAL   R R ..    RI- O
lp    ~ 4p  D,   OO
~~~~~~~~~~~~T                                                          644                  ,44-4   MALA^r>                                        T 14,1: .,   TEsWId To    n        s       l      a A              b&V 
z 1.  Z t   MALA9SrA  g  fortnece ^ReelFc                                                                                                                                                                                               d
,£, /-                 !                  l  e!W4           N>Mgd3esbs                                                                                                                                                                                                 MlL9,5  o   16    ;a    16    4GD    E
. _, .: . .   W _.   _    ,   oz ^V 1N'2, Sa.oo,                                                                                                                                       0y 
,,   , 4,  <  ,  ,   Sd bOKd4hyS                                                                T10, 1.'                                                                                                                                                                                 _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0004  ,,,00105



I                                                                                      I



_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                                             , 
W                                                     
0 2 < = f f; 0 r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-. ,7000 1    
0 tt  ti1;1  @  00  G  0)  0  lt  i  s0  X  ;t  0  0D<
-jhzi    0-,     !                              
:       .                              X      0J   
L                                                                                 *   ,d-           
X                         h       '          X-S--Y',f  i  f
'  ,   >   8   J   -S'   X   '  e  c  t  At:  S  -  350 t Q 00 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
zNtfi<i 4 > 0i ti;ik n 1l 2 2@' S Ir - --                 -   .------0
fi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~We '                                     !



I                                                                                   I



