Document of                 FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-2414-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SEVENTH LOAN
TO THE
KOREA DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
November 17, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              -  Won
US$0.0021                  =  W 1
US$1.00                    =  W 485
US$2.06                    =  W 1,000
US$2,062                      W 1 million
US$2.06 million            =  W 1 billion
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB   -   Asian Development Bank
BOK   -   Bank of Korea
CNB   -   Citizens National Bank
DEG   -   Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft
EPB   -   Economic Planning Board
GNP   -   Gross National Product
IFC   -   International Finance Corporation
IRF   -   Industrial Rationalization Fund
KDB   -   Korea Development Bank
KDFC  -   Korea Development Finance Corporation
KDLC  -   Korea Development Leasing Corporation
KIFC  -   Korea Investment and Finance Corporation
KIST  -   Korea Institute of Science and Technology
KTAC  -   Korea Technology Advancement Corporation
MIB   -   Medium Industry Bank
NIF   -   National Investment Fund
RCB   -   Regional Commercial Bank
GOVERNMENT OF KOREA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31



KOREèA              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SEVENTH KOREA DEVELOPMENT FINANCE
CORPORATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Korea Development Finance Corporation (KDFC)
Guarantor:        Republic of Korea
Amount:           US$100 million equivalent
Terms:            The proposed loan will bear interest at 7.35% p.a., amortiza-
tion to conform substantially to the aggregate of the amorti-
zation schedules applicable to the specific investment proj-
ects financed out of the proceeds of the proposed loan. The
maximum repayment period would be 17 years, including 3 years
of grace.
Relending
Terms:          KDFC will onlend the proceeds of the loan to subborrowers at
an interest rate of 10.2% on the average for a maximum period
of 15 years, including 3 years of grace. Subborrowers will
assume the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:   The proposed loan would be used to help cover the foreign ex-
change requirements of subprojects to be financed by KDFC
over the next two years; apart from direct imports, the
proceeds of the loan would be utilized by KDFC to finance
the foreign exchange component of domestically produced
capital goods (estimated at 60%). In order to support
KDFC's efforts to provide financial assistance to small- and
medium-scale, relatively labor-intensive enterprises, a
component of $20 million would be earmarked for financing
specifically: (a) enterprises with fixed assets not exceed-
ing $750,000; or (b) projects generating employment at a
fixed investment cost per job not greater than $12,500.
Also, in order to finance small- and medium-sized leasing
projects, an amount of up to $10.0 million of the proceeds
of the proposed loan would be made available to the Korea
Development Leasing Corporation (KDLC), a leasing company
affiliated to KDFC, by way of subloans. The proposed loan
would finance projects creating an estimated 10,000 new
jobs. There are no special risks associated with the
project.
Estimated                              ---- $ Millions ---------
Disbursements                 Bank FY         1980         1981
Annual                        56.4          43.6
Cumulative                    56.4         100.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:         No. 2106-KO, dated October 16, 1978.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED SEVENTH LOAN
TO THE KOREA DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
seventh loan to the Korea Development Finance Corporation, with the
guarantee of the Republic of Korea, for the equivalent of $100 million. The
loan will bear interest at 7.35% p.a. and will be amortized substantially in
accordance with the aggregate of the amortization schedules applicable to the
specific investment projects financed out of its proceeds. The maximum
repayment period applicable to subborrowers would be 15 years, including 3
years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report ("Growth and Prospects of the Korean
Economy") was distributed under cover of SecM77-158, dated March 4, 1977./i
The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
Recent Economic Developments
3.        Korea's economic position at the commencement of the Fourth Plan
period (1977-81) was stronger than ever before. Despite the balance of pay-
ments difficulties of 1974 and 1975 and a much less favorable international
economic environment than expected, most of the economic objectives set in
the Third Plan (1972-76) were achieved. The economy has shown continued
strength since the commencement of the Fourth Plan period. The exports and
balance of payments targets for 1977 were realized. The rate of growth of
GNP in real terms was 10.3% (as compared with the annual average of 9.2%
postulated in the Plan), and per capita income in current dollars rose from
$700 in 1976 to $864 in 1977. Export value increased by about 29% (albeit at
a considerably lower rate than the 56% registered in 1976), and exceeded the
target of $10,000 million. Continued success was achieved in diversifying
the markets for, and composition of, Korean exports. Although there was a
trade deficit of $477 million, resulting from a 25% increase in imports, net
receipts from services ($266 million) and net transfers of about $223 million
offset this deficit and resulted in a current account surplus of $12 million,
as compared with a deficit of $314 million in 1976. The rapid improvement in
the balance of payments was the result of a substantial improvement in the
terms of trade, due in part to quality improvements, and the sharp increase
in the earnings from construction contracts abroad. Furthermore, net trans-
fers averaged nearly $300 million over the past two years. The net gain from
all these factors, together with the increase in tourism receipts, was nearly
equivalent to the total of the current account deficits in 1974 and 1975.
/1 The latest Bank Economic Mission visited Korea in October 1978 and its
report is presently under preparation.



- 2 -
4.        Although price increases averaged about 10% in 1977, due, in part,
to the continued stability of import prices and, in part, to the success of
anti-inflation policies, including price controls, inflationary pressures
began to accelerate again during the second half of 1977 and have persisted
in 1978. The Government has tended to view this as being mainly the result
of the high rate of growth of the money supply caused almost entirely by the
large inflows of foreign exchange earnings, especially from construction
contracts abroad. In response to this view of the inflation problem, the
Government has attempted to reduce the net inflow of foreign exchange by
inducing more cash imports and reducing credit imports, and by neutralizing
the possible monetary impact of some of the foreign exchange earnings
through various monetary measures. Furthermore, the Government announced a
wide ranging import liberalization scheme which took effect on May 1, 1978.
In addition, interest rate adjustments have been made, the most recent being
the raising of deposit and loan rates in June 1978 in an attempt to reduce
the prevailing excess demand and dampen inflationary pressures.
5.        The balance of payments position in 1978 is expected to remain
sound with nominal increases of 24% and 32% in the values of exports and
imports, respectively. The resulting trade deficit of about $1,400 million
is expected to be partially offset by a projected surplus in the invisibles
account of about $950 million (including net transfers), leaving a current
account deficit of some $445 million. Net inflows of medium- and long-term
capital would be about $1,600 million and, in spite of the substantial repay-
ment of some of Korea's short-term debt, Korea's gross holdings of foreign
exchange would be augmented by an estimated $775 million in 1978. This re-
vised estimate takes account of the impact of the additional import liberali-
zation measures which is already reflected in the rate of increase of imports
since the first quarter of 1978. The outlook in 1979 is also expected to re-
main strong with a continued high growth of exports and a gross level of
capital inflow of about $3,000 million, including an allowance for an in-
crease in reserves to about $6,000 million, or about four months of imports,
a level considered prudent in view of Korea's trade dependency.
Longer-Term Problems and Prospects
6.        The preparation of the Fourth Plan (1977-81) afforded an opportu-
nity for a comprehensive review of Korea's economic problems, prospects and
priorities. Korea's longer term goals as specified in the Plan are "growth
with enhanced self-sufficiency" and "greater equity and social development."
The firm intention of the Government as stated in the Plan is to achieve a
maximum rate of growth consistent with a sound balance of payments and also
with the maintenance of internal price stability. National savings are ex-
pected to finance as much as 92% of total investment as compared with about
72% in the Third Plan period (1972-76).
7.        Growth and stability are not the only objectives.  Enhanced equity
and greater social development are also of importance in the Korean plans.
The main emphasis is on achieving a wider distribution of the benefits of
growth. Health outlays will increase as a proportion of total investment
with special stress on preventive care and an innovative health delivery



- 3 -
system to service low-income families, particularly in the rural areas.
Rural incomes are expected to increase as a result of greater agricultural
productivity and diversification and of increased opportunities for non-farm
employment primarily through the Saemaeul (New Community) Movement and
small industries development, and also because of increasing construction
activities in the rural areas. The quality of life in these areas is to be
further enhanced by the provision of additional infrastructure facilities.
8.        The achievement of these goals would not require a change in the
basic development strategy of export-led growth, which Korea has followed so
successfully since the mid-sixties. The Fourth Plan postulates an annual
rate of incease of exports of 16% in real terms, and a real growth rate of
14% per year will be required during the rest of the Plan period if the
target is to be met. The ratio of commodity exports to GNP is expected to
rise from the level of about 30% in 1976 to about 42% in 1981, with the
manufacturing sector providing about 92% of total exports compared with 90% in
1976. This demands the achievement of continuous gains in efficiency and
productivity, further success in diversifying both commodities and markets and
the maintenance of a favorable domestic policy environment. More than half
of Korea's manufactured goods still consists of textiles, garments, electron-
ics and footwear, but clearly Korea's comparative advantage is starting to
shift from unskilled labor-intensive items to more capital- and skill-inten-
sive products. Although not a critical factor at present, Korea will in
future face increasingly severe competition from the less industrially
advanced countries which are more amply endowed with natural resources and
where unskilled labor is cheaper. Furthermore, Korea is beginning to experi-
ence constraints on the expansion of several traditional manufactured exports
due to its already dominant position in some cases (e.g., plywood) and due,
in other cases, to the trade restrictions imposed by some developed countries
(e.g., textiles and footwear).
9.        A changing pattern of exports reflecting and responding to shifting
comparative advantage is, therefore, essential for sustained export expansion.
Korean planners are conscious of the need to effect structural changes in ex-
ports and industrial output and are focusing on electronics and machinery
to achieve this. The achievement of the targets set for the export of
electronics, machinery and other capital goods generally requires a concerted
effort on a number of fronts. As the World Development Report points
out, the essential problems in expanding these exports are technological and
organizational. Action is required to bring about the assimilation or
learning of new technology, its adaptation to local needs and conditions,
technology innovation, the rationalization of production processes, quality
improvement and market development, including the provision of export
credits on a significant scale if market penetration in the less developed
countries is to succeed.
10.       In the Korean context, the continued high rate of growth of the
economy is essential, since significant progress toward the basic equity



-4-
goals of improved income distribution and reduced poverty could be more
easily affordable when the growth of incomes is high. The predominant role
the export sector is expected to play is appropriate in view of Korea's
limited natural resources. Moreover, Korea has the manpower and the entrepre-
neurial capacity to implement the Plan's investment programs. The Fourth
Plan's priorities, strategy and programs, therefore, remain appropriate. The
Plan strikes a reasonable balance between the various objectives of increas-
ing employment, maintaining a minimum growth of per capita incomes, strength-
ening the balance of payments and making progress towards diversifying the
industrial structure so as to sustain export growth in the 1980s.
11.       Notwithstanding the efforts being made to increase the mobilization
of domestic resources, Korea will continue to need sizeable gross capital in-
flows. It is estimated that foreign capital commitments of about $3,000 mil-
lion would be required annually over the next several years. While Korea is
extending its use of commercial financing from the traditional suppliers and
private bank credits to Euro-dollar syndicated loans and bond issues in the
Euro-bond and Asia bond markets, the magnitude of its external capital
requirements is such that it will have to continue to rely on considerable
capital inflows from official sources, including Eximbanks. Servicing of the
debt should not pose serious difficulties given the present debt service ratio
and the prospects for continued export growth, provided that the proportion of
external debt incurred on shorter term and at high interest rates is not
excessive. On the assumption that Korea can obtain the required inflow of
capital on reasonable terms, the debt service ratio which now stands at just
over 10% is expected to remain at 10-11% until the end of the decade and
decline slowly thereafter.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
12.       As of September 30, 1978, Korea had received 39 Bank Loans (including
one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $2,004.5 million in loans
and $106.8 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and the
refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan). As of that date
$889.7 million of the total Bank lending remained undisbursed on effective
Loans and Credits, mostly from commitments in the past two years. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank Loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments
as of that date and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. As indicated
in the notes, progress on project implementation is generally satisfactory.
13.       In recent years, the thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations
in Korea has been directed towards assisting the Government's efforts: (a) to
secure the external resources required to supplement domestic savings in
sustaining a high GNP growth rate by following a policy of rapid export-
oriented industrialization; (b) to avoid the emergence of infrastructure
bottlenecks; and (c) to complement industrial development with agricultural
and rural development schemes aimed at bringing about a better dispersal of



- 5 -
the fruits of growth through raising incomes and improving the quality of
life in the rural areas.
14.       A substantial part of Bank financing has been directed towards the
vital industrial sector through lending to Korea's three major development
banks. The Korea Development Finance Corporation has received $220.0 mil-
lion, the Korea Development Bank $252.5 million and the Medium Industry Bank
$85 million in Bank loans for relending to private industry. This has re-
sulted not only in the overall development of the industrial sector, but has
also contributed to the achievement of institutional improvements and of
the Government's objective of decentralizing industry. The loan of $80
million for a Heavy Machinery Project was intended to assist in achieving
the structural shift to more skill-intensive industries, which is necessary
to ensure the long-term viability of Korea's export strategy.
15.       As Korea's economy continued to grow and the pace of industrializa-
tion has quickened, there has had to be a parallel expansion of transport fa-
cilities. The Bank Group, through its assocation with the Government's effort
to modernize and expand the transport sector dating back to 1962, has played
an important role in these developments. Some $340 million has been provided
for six railway projects designed to increase the railroad's capacity and im-
prove its operations; three loans totalling $191.5 million have been made for
highway construction and paving of high priority sections of the national
network and for a countrywide maintenance organization; and two loans amount-
ing to $147 million have been provided for the expansion of port facilities
at Busan, the premier port, and Mugho, primarily for improving coal handling
facilities.
16.       Korea's paucity of natural resources and dependence on the manufac-
turing segment of its economy has resulted in the adoption of a strategy
based on maximizing the advantages of a skilled and hard working labor force.
The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements for
appropriately trained workers and certain categories of skilled manpower
through its lending for four education projects which have pursued the broad
objectives of technical manpower development either through the expansion of
relevant subsectors or through specific quality improvements. Together they
have catered to a broad range of manpower training needs within agriculture,
fisheries, industry and services.
17.       Korea's record of achievement in modernizing its agricultural
sector, although less spectacular than the gains made in the industrial
sphere, are nevertheless commendable. The past fifteen years have seen
agricultural output grow at about 4% per annum, which has resulted in
the country becoming near self-sufficient in its staple food, rice, and made
possible a steady and perceptible improvement in the living standards of the
40% of Korea's population who live in the countryside and rely primarily
on agrarian pursuits for their livelihood. The Bank has lent $325.5 million
for the improvement of irrigation facilities, land and seed development and
the provision of agricultural credit to farmers and processors of
agricultural products. In addition, $155 million has been provided for two
rural infrastructure projects in support of the Government's rural development



program initiated in 1971 to improve the quality of life and the standard
of living in the rural areas.
1<s.      The Bank's first essay into the field of regional development in
Korea through the project approved in January 1975 (Loan 1070-KO) has proved
successful. The project was designed to support the Government's policy by
financing high priority investments in the poor, primarily agricultural,
southwest region.
19.       Excluding one project that was cancelled subsequently, IFC had by
September 30, 1978, entered into 20 commitments totalling $71.3 million (net
of participation and cancellation). Korea's industrial development programs
have required large capital expenditures in the private sector, a situation
which has enabled a substantially enhanced IFC presence in the past few years.
20.       A primary objective of the Bank's future lending to Korea is to
assist it in sustaining its growth momentum. The basic issue in this connec-
tion is whether Korea can deepen and diversify its industrial structure to
the extent necessary to ensure that it attains its export targets. In addi-
tion to the proposed loan to KDFC, further loans are planned for the other
development banks. Lending to industry will be diversified by the provision
of a loan for a second machinery project which will provide financial and
technical assistance to small- and medium-scale machinery industries. It
will also be necessary to introduce RD&E programs which are better adapted to
the technological needs of industrial development. Projects for technologi-
cal development of the electronics and machinery industries are envisaged in
the program.
21.       Korea's industrialization program, which calls for entering into
more complex fields of manufacturing than hitherto, will require increasingly
high levels of technical competence on the part of its labor force. A loan
to modernize and expand the system of higher technical education so as to
increase its flexibility and responsiveness to the changing requirements
of the economy is, therefore, proposed.
22.       Another strand in the lending strategy is increased support of the
Government's efforts to spread the fruits of growth even more equitably by
the diversification and expansion of the output of the agricultural sector
and through nationwide development programs. Projects are envisaged for land/
water resource development, for agricultural credit, marketing and processing
and for the further development of rural infrastructure.
23.       The further development of the industrial and agricultural
sectors and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent
infrastructural development. Although the transport sector will be given
less emphasis than in the past, the investments required are large, and thus
there is considerable support for this sector in the proposed program.
24.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt dis-
bursed and outstanding at the end of 1977 was about 11%, and the share of
debt service was of the order of 6% at that time. These ratios are



expected to increase to around 13% and 7%, respectively, by the end of the
present decade.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
25.       Korea has been able to sustain an impressive record of economic
performance for more than a decade, achieving an average growth rate of
aggregate real GNP of nearly 10% p.a. since 1962. This achievement appears
all the more remarkable when judged in the context of the country's poor
endowment of natural resources. Since most of the country is mountainous,
only about a quarter of the land area is cultivable. Korea's mineral
resources are also limited: the country's principal known mineral resource
is anthracite coal, available in quantity, but of relatively poor coking
quality.
26.       Given the poor natural resource endowment, Korea's growth strategy
has been based on the expansion of manufacturing activity and of manufactured
exports, rather than on import substitution. Rapid growth induced consider-
able structural changes in the economy. Though agriculture grew on average
at a rate of 4% p.a. between 1961 and 1977, the rapid growth of the manufactur-
ing sector, at nearly 19% p.a. (almost double the rate of growth of real
aggregate GNP), transformed the economy from a predominantly agricultural
one (the share of agriculture, forestry, and fisheries in GNP was 44% in
1961, while that of mining and manufacturing was only 12%) to one which is
significantly dependent on mining and manufacturing (by 1977, the share of
mining and manufacturing in GNP rose to around 36%).
27.       The principal impetus to this extraordinary transformation of the
economy came from the growth of manufactured exports. In the early 1960s,
exports, though growing in relation to GNP, were still not very significant.
In 1965, commodity exports were $175 million; of this total, manufactured
exports amounted to $144 million, constituting about 8% of manufactured
output. By 1977, commodity exports, growing at about 32% in constant
prices over the previous decade, reached the $10 billion mark. The share
of manufactured exports in the total was close to 90% and their share in
manufactured output was over 25%. The growth of manufactured exports was
accompanied by some changes in the structure of exports.  Though Korea's
export pattern continued to display a high degree of reliance on a few
labor-intensive traditional exports (textiles, clothing, footwear, plywood,
and certain miscellaneous manufactures), there was a discernible trend in
the direction of more sophisticated skill-intensive products. Several new
light industry goods, such as travel goods and plastic articles, and heavy
industry products, such as electrical machinery, machine tools, electronic
goods and components, and transport equipment (including ships), were added
to Korea's range of manufactured exports. At the same time, despite the
relatively neglible role of import substitution in the aggregate, the pursuit
of backward linkages, usually from exports, enabled domestic production to
replace imports in certain selective sectors, e.g. textiles, apparel, sewing
machines, certain metal products and chemicals, and particularly after



- 8 -
1968, in particular sectors of the basic metal, petrochemical and machinery
industries. This has enabled Korea to prevent its aggregate dependence on
imported intermediaries and investment goods from rising significantly over
the last decade.
28.       Korea's export performance and its efforts at selective import
substitution were also reflected in the structural changes which occurred in
the manufacturing sector over the last decade. While value added in manufac-
turing rose at an annual rate of about 19% p.a. (in constant prices),
between 1962 and 1977, the composition of manufacturing output changed quite
significantly in favor of the metals, machinery and chemicals subsectors.
The share of these three major manufacturing groups rose from 21% in 1961 to
about 45% in 1977. The most striking increase was registered by the combined
machinery, electronics and shipbuilding industries spearheaded by electronic
products.  Korea's efforts at reducing the concentration of its exports to
the US and Japan have also met with considerable success; the combined share
of these two countries dropped to 52% in 1977 (and further to 49% in the
first half of 1978) from a level of 70% in 1974; commodity exports to the
Middle East, earlier negligible, exceeded $1,000 million in 1977.
29.       Several factors have contributed to this remarkable industrial and
export performance: e.g. the impact of the concentration on labor-intensive
activities; the efficiency of factor use in manufacturing (the sector is
generally characterized by low capital/output and capital/labor ratios); the
rapid growth of labor productivity, due to the high levels of education and
skills, as well as the magnitude of investment in industry which grew at an
average rate of about 13% p.a. during the last decade; the aligning of wage
levels and productivity increases which has helped to maintain Korea's
competitive position with respect to its competitors - other developing
countries such as the Philippines, Malaysia, Thailand, as well as the Republic
of China, Singapore and Hong Kong in certain product categories; and the
combination of appropriate exchange rate and export policies which maintained
the profitability of Korean exports in the face of relatively high rates of
domestic inflation without jeopardizing the efficiency of resource allocation.
30.       Korea's long-term development plans are formulated on the premise
that export-led manufacturing growth will remain the key element in Korea's
development strategy; in fact, compared to the pattern established over the
past decade, the Fourth Plan expects to accomplish an increase in the
relative importance of both manufacturing activity and manufactured exports
by 1981. Thus, while GNP is expected to grow at a rate of about 9% over the
Fourth Plan period, the industrial sector is expected to maintain a rate of
growth of about 14% p.a., fueled by an annual growth rate of manufactured
exports of about 16.5%. As in the past, the country's industrialization
strategy will continue to link changes in Korea's industrial sector to the
process of export expansion. While attempts will be made to deepen the
structure of Korean industry and enhance self-sufficiency in the use of
intermediates and capital goods, e.g. by import substitution in the metals,
machinery and chemical sectors, export expansion is in general expected to
absorb an increasing share of the output of heavy industry. The continued
expansion of exports, the increased emphasis on manufacturing activity, the



- 9 -
concentration on the potentially skilled, labor-intensive machinery industries,
and the associated expansion of services, are expected to maintain the
aggregate employment elasticity at about the historical levels (i.e. 0.37)
achieved over the period 1963-75, and to accommodate the creation of about
2 million jobs over the period of the Fourth Plan.
31.       The Plan's estimate of total investment required for the expansion
and restructuring of Korea's industrial sector is around $10.5 billion over
the 1977-81 period. There are grounds for believing, however, that Korea's
investment needs for 1977-81 may have been underestimated, while the domestic
savings target (which calls for an increase in the proportion of domestic
savings to GNP from 16.4% in 1970 to 27.1% in 1981) may be ambitious
despite Korea's good savings performance in 1976/77. The conjunction of
these two possibilities would lead to continued reliance on substantial
inflows of foreign capital. The Korean Government, however, has undertaken
in recent years a major effort to mobilize domestic resources. It has
sought to stimulate savings by attempting to increase real rates of return on
financial assets. It has facilitated the flow of funds between savers and
investors by encouraging the growth of commercial banks and the development
banking sytem, the strengthening of the money market through the establishment
of short-term finance companies, and the growth of the securities market to
accommodate the needs of long-term finance. To meet these ends, the Government,
among other measures, has facilitated the establishment of several merchant
banking institutions, the "going public" of large privately held business
enterprises, the restructuring of the Korean Securites Finance Corporation
and the institution of Trust Funds. Moreover, in 1973, the Government
established the National Investment Fund (NIF) to supplement the program of
resource mobilization through the financial system. Apart from deposits by
banking institutions and savings funds, NIF derives its funds from a variety
of other sources such as national savings associations, pension funds,
postal savings and NIF bond sales to the public.
32.       The Government has also sought to direct the flow of available
resources to sectors considered strategic to the success of the Fourth
Plan, the specialized banks, development banks and the NIF serving as the
instruments of the allocation of credit to selected sectors on preferential
terms. Korea's three major development finance institutions, KDB, KDFC and
MIB, were responsible for almost two thirds of the total medium- and long-
term loans extended in Korea in 1977; in the same year, three quarters of
NIF funds were directed to the heavy engineering sectors. In 1976, the
Korean Export Import Bank was empowered to borrow in international markets
in order to actively engage in the support of the country's growing volume of
exports of capital goods.
33.       The Bank has worked closely with the Government in the formulation
and implementaion of Korea's industrial and financial policies, and is in
basic agreement with the main thrust of the plans and priorities outlined in
the Fourth Plan. The Bank has already made three loans to KDB and two to
MIB; the proposed loan will be the Bank's seventh to KDFC and represents the
continuation of our assistance, through financial intermediaries, to Korea's
industrial sector. All three institutions have obtained loans from the ADB;



- 10 -
KDB and KDFC have also made commendable and successful efforts to borrow
from commercial sources abroad. The magnitude of the demand for term
finance in Korea is such that these three institutions, even if their
operations increased significantly, would continue to be complementary
rather than competitive.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report on the Korea Development
Finance Corporation" (No. 2106-KO dated October 16, 1978) is being distributed
separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington from September 20 to 22, 1978 with a Korean
delegation led by Mr. Wi-Tchol Kang, Director, Second Economic Cooperation
Division, Economic Planning Board, and Mr. B.E. Kim, President, KDFC.
35.       The proposed loan of $100 million would be the Bank's seventh to
KDFC.  Bank Group assistance to KDFC to date has totaled $220 million (exclu-
sive of a $19.8 million IFC-syndicated loan). Of the latest Bank loan of
$70 million, which became effective in September 15, 1977, about $69 million
had been committed as of September 30, 1978. KDFC's performance has been very
satisfactory.
KDFC's Role Within the Financial System
36.       KDFC, a privately-owned corporation, was established in 1967 with
the assistance of the Bank Group (including an equity participation by IFC) and
the Federation of Korean Industries (FKI). Its charter stipulates that the
primary purpose of its establishment is to provide medium- and long-term
finance to the private sector, particularly the foreign exchange requirements
of manufacturing and other activities such as transport, tourism, services,
commerce, fisheries and large-scale, commercially-oriented agriculture.
Besides KDFC, there are three other major institutional sources of term finance
for the industrial sector: the Korea Development Bank (KDB); the Medium
Industry Bank (MIB); and the Citizens National Bank (CNB). MIB confines its
financing to small- and medium-scale industries while CNB finances very
small or cottage industries. There is some overlap between the functions of
KDFC and KDB, which both focus on relatively large to large industrial
enterprises, but while KDFC principally concentrates on foreign currency
equipment financing for the private manufacturing sector, KDB's coverage is
considerably broader in that it provides both working capital and equipment
loans and it finances both private and public sector projects (the share of
the public sector in KDB's portfolio, while declining, was still 53% at the
end of 1977). Unlike KDFC, KDB provides the bulk of its financing in domestic
currency (89% of its loan portfolio at the end of 1977) and lends extensively
for such nonmanufacturing activities as power and transportation projects.
KDFC's Development Impact
37.       Between its inception in 1967 and end-1977, KDFC financed 344 pro-
jects with a total investment cost of about W 360 billion ($740 million),



- 11 -
to which KDFC's own financing contributed W 135 billion, or 38%. The funds
disbursed by KDFC during 1971-77 represented about 2.7% of total fixed
investment in the manufacturing sector, which implies that KDFC-supported
projects have accounted for about 7% of total manufacturing fixed investment.
Despite this relatively modest quantitative contribution towards the provi-
sion of industrial finance, KDFC has played an important qualitative role
in improving resource allocation, mobilizing resources and introducing
innovative developmental activities. The maintenance of high appraisal
standards by KDFC has ensured that KDFC-supported projects have been both
economically and financially viable. (Up to end-1977, the average ERR for
KDFC's projects was 32.3%, with an average FRR of 27.2%.) Furthermore,
projects financed by KDFC since its inception up to end-1977 are expected to
create 32,000 additional jobs at full capacity operation. For these projects,
which were financed directly by KDFC within its "normal" lending activity,
the average cost of fixed investment per incremental job was $26,200 in 1977
compared with $31,200 in 1976, which was not unduly capital intensive given
the stage of development of Korean industry and the fact that KDFC's
normal business focus is on relatively large industrial projects. However,
in addition to the above projects, KDFC has financed a number of small- and
medium-scale projects in a cooperative program with the regional commercial
banks (RCBs) for which the average fixed investment cost per job was $12,800
in 1977, and it has financed leasing projects through the Korea Development
Leasing Corporation (KDLC), for which the average fixed investment cost per
job was $10,600 in 1977. In 1977, 39.7% of KDFC's financial assistance was
allocated to projects exporting more than 50% of additional sales. The
sectoral composition of KDFC's portfolio has changed, in part reflecting its
deliberate efforts to contribute to the deepening of the industrial structure,
with increased lending to metals, chemicals, transport and contruction, while
the share of textiles showed a sharp decline between 1976 and 1977.
38.       Apart from the provision of finance, KDFC has achieved a remarkable
record of promotional activities. Its initiative in promoting and establish-
ing (jointly with IFC) the KDLC in 1975 and the Korea Investment and Finance
Corporation (KIFC) in 1971 has made a valuable contribution towards the
development of the country's financial system. KDLC leases industrial
machinery mainly to small- and medium-sized enterprises which cannot afford
outright purchases because of their limited capital base and because they do
not have the collateral required to obtain loan financing for such purposes.
KDLC's subprojects financed under a $5 million subloan from KDFC to KDLC
have had very favorable economic effects. KIFC has significantly contributed
to the development of the organized short-term and securities markets in
Korea. KDFC has also helped mobilize foreign currency resources in increasing
amounts through its joint financing activities with both domestic and foreign
institutions, including IFC. KDFC has endeavored to improve the design of
projects it finances. It helped establish the Korea Technology Advancement
Corporation (KTAC) in 1974, jointly with the Korea Institute of Science and
Technology (KIST), for the purpose of commercial exploitation of patents and
technical processes developed by KIST. KDFC has, in line with recent
Government policy, given high priority to the machinery industry. It encour-
ages subcontracting arrangements, where appropriate, with the objective of
removing supply bottlenecks, promoting small-scale enterprises and improving



- 12 -
industrial linkages. Finally, KDFC is successfully continuing its scheme of
cooperation with the RCBs, which was started in 1975, and designed to channel
foreign currency funds to small enterprises in less developed areas, and to
help the participating RCBs build up their operational capacity. KDFC's
Development Strategy for 1978-79 indicates that it intends to continue with
various innovative activities.
Organization and Management
39.       KDFC's ownership is broad-based and, aside from IFC which owns
10.5% of its share capital, no single shareholder (of which there were 388
on December 31, 1977) owns more than 4%. Its Board of Directors comprises
13 members, of whom five represent the ten foreign private shareholders
and IFC. The eight Korean Directors are leading members of the business and
banking community. While the Board lays down policy guidelines and has the
ultimate authority for all investment decisions, it has delegated authority
to an Executive Committee of four Board members (including the Chairman, the
President, and one representative each of the Korean and foreign shareholders,
respectively) to approve individual loans and investments up to $5.0 million.
40.       KDFC remains one of the best organized and managed DFCs with which
the Bank Group is associated. Its senior management team consists of a
President and three Vice Presidents. Mr. C. H. Kim, a former Governor of
the Bank of Korea, had been KDFC's President from 1967 until May 1978, when
he was elected Chairman of the Board. The new President is Mr. B.E. Kim, a
former President of the Korea Exchange Bank. KDFC's high managerial standards
are expected to be maintained. It has considerable depth at the management
level. The high quality of KDFC's staff is evident through all levels of the
organization. KDFC continues to be able to recruit new staff of high
caliber.
Operational Standards and Procedures
41.       The standard of KDFC's operations remains excellent.  The general
quality and ex-post accuracy of KDFC's appraisal work continue to be of a
very high standard. KDFC's appraisal reports are frequently used as models
and training materials by other Korean institutions as well as some overseas
DFCs. In its appraisal work KDFC endeavors to improve the design of projects
and pays due attention to the introduction of appropriate new technologies.
Its supervision procedures are very thorough and effective, as reflected
in the excellent quality of its portfolio. Its procurement and disbursement
procedures are sound. KDFC usually requires that import procurement be
based on three or more competitive quotations from suppliers, or occasionally
on international competitive bidding. KDFC's staff carefully checks the
price and suitability of the equipment to be purchased, based on their
experience with similar projects previously financed by it.
Operations
42.       KDFC's cumulative approvals from the start of operations in 1968
to June 30, 1978 amounted to W 164.8 billion. This financial assistance



- 13 -
went mainly to the manufacturing, transport, fishery and agro-industrial
sectors. Foreign currency lending accounted for 89.7% of the total, domestic
currency lending 5.8%, and the remainder was accounted for by equity invest-
ments and convertible debentures. Cumulative foreign currency loan approvals
stood at $324.3 million (348 loans), of which $44.5 million was approved
in the first half of 1978 and $70.0 million was approved in 1977, which
represents a 14% increase over the 1976 level of $61.5 million. The
growth of foreign currency loan approvals on a year-to-year basis has been
irregular as the level of approvals is a direct function of resource avail-
ability. Cumulative domestic currency loan approvals amounted to W 9.5 bil-
lion ($19.6 million) which is relatively small because KDFC has only
limited domestic currency resources and therefore provides domestic currency
loans primarily as an ancillary service to its borrowers of foreign currency.
During 1968-77 KDFC made a total of 356 loans for 344 projects. By amount,
about 46% of KDFC's loans were for a period of 10-15 years and a further
36.5% had maturities of 8-10 years. On a cumulative basis, 95.6% of KDFC's
loans were equipment loans, with only 4.4% for working capital financing.
Although lending constitutes the great bulk of its financing, KDFC has
placed increasing emphasis on its investment operations (equity participations
and convertible debentures) which accounted for 45% of KDFC's domestic
currency operations at end-1977, bringing the outstanding equity investment
portfolio to W 4.2 billion. KDFC considers that these investment activities,
owing to their catalytic effect, provide substantial assistance to the
establishment and successful development of enterprises.
Financial Position and Performance
43.       As of December 31, 1977, KDFC's total assets stood at W 109.9 bil-
lion ($227 million), having grown by an annual average of 35% since 1974
(and reaching W 133.1 billion by June 30, 1978). Of this amount, W 93 bil-
lion or 85% represented KDFC's outstanding foreign currency loan portfolio.
KDFC's net worth stood at W 10.9 billion at end-1977, (and W 11.1 billion at
end-June 1978) an increase of 14% over the 1976 level. Paid-in share capital
amounted to W 5 billion or 46% of net worth. KDFC's financial position is
sound, with a long-term debt/ equity ratio of 8.7:1 as of end-1977, well
within the contractual limit of 10:1. Its debt service coverage remained
at 1.3 in 1977, the same level as in 1975 and 1976, and is satisfactory. Net
income has grown at an average annual rate of 31% since 1974 and reached
W 2.06 billion ($4.24 million) in 1977, which represents a satisfactory
return on net worth of 20.1% as compared to 18.7% in 1976 and 15.8% in 1974.
(A net income of W 1.2 billion was recorded during the first half of 1978).
KDFC has continued to maintain stringent expenditure controls and has achieved
a further relative reduction in administration expenses, which represented
only 1.1% of average total assets in 1977 compared with 1.6% in 1974. This
is illustrative of KDFC's sustained operational and managerial efficiency.
After a rights issue in 1976, KDFC has declared a 20% cash dividend for
1977, and this represents a moderate payout ratio of 48.6%. KDFC's portfolio
remains of exceptionally good quality.



- 14 -
Resource Position and Mobilization
44.       As of June 30, 1978, KDFC had mobilized total resources of W 176.0
billion ($363 million), of which 91.2% or $331 million were foreign currency
resources. Two thirds of KDFC's foreign currency resources have been from
the Bank, 21% from ADB, 1% from USAID and 12% from commercial sources. KDFC's
efforts to mobilize foreign private resources remained unsuccessful until
1976, primarily because of the difficult situation of the international
capital markets in 1974-75 (i.e. the unavailability of medium- and long-term
funds), compounded by the temporary difficulties of Korea's balance of
payments which severely curtailed the country's overall borrowing capacity
in those markets during that period. In 1976, KDFC succeeded in raising its
first foreign commercial loan, of about $20 million, with IFC acting as
syndicate manager. In October 1977, KDFC raised a second loan, also of
$20 million, without IFC's participation. It recently negotiated a
third commercial loan of $30 million with the Deutsche Bank of Germany as
syndicate leader. This performance in mobilizing foreign private resources
is satisfactory, considering that KDFC has had only ten years of operation
and given the difficulties prevailing in the market until 1976. About 46%
(by amount) of KDFC's foreign currency loans require maturities of 10-15
years, whereas foreign commercial borrowings by KDFC have maturities of up
to 8 years. In view of the foregoing, KDFC will continue to require funds
from official sources such as the Bank, in addition to its foreign commercial
borrowings. It is, however, KDFC's intention to mobilize foreign commercial
funds in increasing amounts in the next few years to meet the increasing
demand for import financing (para. 49). As of June 30, 1978, a balance of
$16.5 million was available for further commitments by KDFC, which together
with the forthcoming $30 million third commercial loan, is expected to be
fully committed by KDFC by the end of 1978.
45.       Korea's domestic resource mobilization efforts have proved very
effective, resulting in an average savings rate of about 26% this year and
enabling over 90% of investment to be financed from domestic resources. The
greater part of such resources provided institutionally to the industrial
sector is channelled through the Government-owned KDB and MIB, while, under
present Government policy, KDFC does not have access to domestic currency
deposits or to the various Government subsidized funds (such as the NIF); it
is also not able to issue bonds for relending purposes. Consequently, its
domestic currency financing has been limited. However, KDFC's domestic
currency resources have been built up over the years and, as of June 30,
1978, amounted to W 15.4 billion of which 32% was share capital, 40% reserves,
15% non-cash charges and 13% a Government subordinated loan. Furthermore at
the project level, KDFC has played a useful role in mobilizing domestic
savings by requiring its borrowers to increase their equity contributions.
KDFC has recently increased its share capital by a rights issue for cash
of W 5 billion. This new share issue - KDFC's third since its inception
- will double KDFC's present paid-in share capital and will augment its net
worth (and borrowing capacity) by close to 50%. More importantly, it repre-
sents a significant effort at domestic resource mobilization by KDFC. The
study referred to in para. 50 is expected to lead to even greater efforts on
KDFC's part to mobilize domestic resources.



- 15 -
46.       On the foreign currency side, KDFC's standard onlending rate under
the previous Bank loan was 10.6% p.a. which is almost equivalent to that
charged by KDB and, considering the average inflation rate of 11% (wholesale
prices) over the last three years and the cost to the subborrower of bearing
the foreign exchange risk, represents a positive real rate of interest. KDFC
is at present lending domestic currency funds at an interest rate of 21% p.a.
Future Operations and Resource Requirements
47.       KDFC has projected total commitments of W 342.2 billion ($705 mil-
lion) over the five-year period 1978-82. This represents an average growth
of 20.3% per annum, which would roughly maintain KDFC's share of total Korean
gross fixed capital formation at about 3%. The achievement of this targeted
increase in business volume will depend primarily on KDFC's capacity to
obtain additional borrowings, which in turn will depend on KDFC's ability to
continue to raise additional equity capital. KDFC's financial performance is
expected to remain satisfactory over the next five years, with net income
increasing from W 2.1 billion in 1977 to W 6.8 billion in 1982, but declining
slightly as a percentage of average equity owing to planned increases in
KDFC's equity and a slight reduction in interest spread resulting from
increased commercial borrowings. KDFC's financial position, as projected,
would remain sound with the debt service cover remaining at about 1.3, the
current ratio around 1.4, and the long-term debt/equity ratio remaining
within the agreed limit of 10:1.
48.       Cumulative domestic currency commitments for the period 1978-82 are
projected at W 41.2 billion, increasing as a proportion of KDFC's total
commitments from 7% in 1977 to 14% in 1982. In order to meet this expected
level of commitments, KDFC has increased its paid-in share capital by
W 5 billion in 1978 (para. 45) and by a further W 5.9 billion in 1981; cash
generated by operations, net Won loan collections and disposal of equity
investments are expected to cover the balance of KDFC's domestic currency
resource requirements.
49.       KDFC's cumulative foreign currency commitments are projected at
$620 million for 1978-82. To meet its forecast commitments, KDFC envisages
mobilizing $610 million in foreign currency borrowings, of which $360 mil-
lion or 59% would be from official sources and $250 million or 41% from
commercial sources. KDFC plans to raise foreign commercial borrowings in
accordance with the following schedule: $30 million in 1978, $40 million in
1979, $50 million in 1980, $60 million in 1981 and $70 million in 1982. This
level of foreign private resource mobilization (i.e., over 40% of projected
foreign currency commitments) is satisfactory. No other DFC presently
borrowing from the Bank has managed to rely to such an extent on foreign
commercial funding. While this target appears ambitious, it should be
attainable given KDFC's financial and institutional strength, provided that
the situation in the international capital markets does not deteriorate. The
proposed Bank loan of $100 million would cover about 44% of KDFC's estimated
foreign currency commitments over the two-year period from January 1, 1979,
with the balance to be covered by prospective borrowings from the ADB ($50
million) and from commercial sources ($90 million).



- 16 -
KDFC's Future Directions
50.       In 1977, KDFC's management concluded that a broad examination of
KDFC's future was in order because the economic environment in which KDFC
operated has greatly changed in the ten years since KDFC's inception in 1967.
The considerable expansion and maturing of the Korean industrial and financial
sectors, and the transformation of Korea's economic and financial relationships
with the outside world have created challenges for KDFC and, at the same
time, new opportunities. This realization had led KDFC to undertake a
thorough review and reconsideration of the legal framework within which KDFC
operates, of its corporate objectives, policies and operations, its internal
organization and staffing, and of the means of mobilizing domestic resources -
all with a view to adapting KDFC to the requirements of Korea's rapidly
developing industrial society. Actions on some of these matters can be taken
only by Government, which has already expressed its interest in KDFC's
purpose in undertaking this effort. The Bank and IFC are collaborating in
the study. At KDFC's request, the Bank is providing KDFC with the services
of a consultant to advise on the matter.
51.       The work is at an early stage and is still evolving, and will not
result in a single action but rather in a succession of decisions and actions
over a period of time. It is reasonably clear, however, that KDFC will
expand certain lines of activity and start new ones, designed to enable it to
respond quickly and flexibly to the changing requirements of the Korean
economy by becoming an even more diversified and multi-purpose financial
institution capable of providing its clients with an integrated package of
financial and advisory services.
Main Features of the Loan
52.       Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan would be
utilized by KDFC to finance the foreign exchange component, estimated at
60%, of domestically procured capital goods (Section 2.02 (a) of the draft
Loan Agreement). This facility, which was given KDFC under the two preceding
Bank loans, would enable KDFC to continue and expand its efforts to assist
the Korean machinery industry. The contractual long-term debt/equity limit
of 10:1, set under the previous Bank loan, would be maintained under the
proposed loan (Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). In view of KDFC's
high appraisal standards and the proven ability of its management and staff,
the free limit on subprojects would be increased from $2.5 million to
$4.0 million (Section 2.02 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). As with the
previous Bank loans, there would be no ceiling on the size of individual
subloans (KDFC's Operational Statement limits KDFC's normal financial assis-
tance to a single enterprise to 25% of KDFC's net worth). KDFC intends to
relend the loan proceeds at differential interest rates that would give it a
spread of 1.75 to 2.5 percentage points, according to its judgement of the
subproject's contribution to the economy and the credit standing of the
borrower. This spread would be more than adequate to cover the cost incurred
by KDFC in processing foreign currency loans, and is in line with that
charged by other development finance institutions in Korea (e.g. KDB, MIB).



- 17 -
KDFC's proposed relending rates of 9.1-9.85% p.a./l are appropriate, given a
projected average rate of inflation of about 9% over the next three years
and the fact that subborrowers bear the full foreign exchange risk. The
other terms and conditions of the loan would be similar to those of recent
Bank loans to DFCs, including a flexible amortization schedule conforming
substantially to the aggregate of the repayment schedules of subloans.
Component for Financing Small- and Medium-Sized Labor-Intensive Projects
53.       While its main business is the provision of finance to relatively
large enterprises, KDFC has in recent years made a deliberate effort to
assist small- and medium-scale (often labor-intensive) projects through its
scheme of cooperation with the RCBs, as well as, less significantly, through
its own operations. This is consistent with the Government's current
emphasis on assisting small-scale enterprises (in terms of total assets) and
the Bank's objective of contributing to the financing of relatively labor-
intensive investment projects (as measured by the capital:labor ratio). In
order to further these objectives, it is recommended that a component of
$20 million (or 20% of the proposed loan amount) be earmarked specifically
for financing: (a) enterprises with fixed assets not exceeding $750,000;
or (b) projects generating employment at a fixed investment cost per job not
greater than $12,500 (Section 2.02 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement). Based
on an analysis of the available data on recent subprojects, KDFC is expected,
with a reasonable but not excessive effort on its part, to be able to fully
utilize the special component as described above.
Financing of Korea Development Leasing Corporation (KDLC)
54.       Under the fifth Bank loan to KDFC (No. 1145-KO), the Bank author-
ized KDFC to make available to KDLC, a leasing company affiliated to KDFC
(para. 37), an amount of $5 million, by way of subloans. It is recommended
that under the proposed loan, KDFC be authorized to onlend to KDLC a further
amount of up to $10 million (Section 2.02 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
55.       The continued growth of the export-oriented industrial sector
remains a key objective for Korea's development strategy under the Fourth
Plan for the period 1977-81. KDFC, whose performance to date has been
highly satisfactory from both the developmental and institutional stand-
points, is a particularly suitable intermediary for allocating resources
for the development of the industrial sector. Apart from being an efficient
resource allocator, KDFC has made and is expected to continue to make
significant qualitative and developmental contributions to the Korean
economy (see para. 38). Through KDFC as an intermediary, Bank Group re-
sources (totalling $238.2 million as of June 30, 1978 on a commitment basis
and including the IFC-syndicated loan of 1976) have been efficiently allocated
/1   Subloans for small and labor-intensive projects would be charged the
lowest rate within the range, i.e. 9.1% p.a.



- 18 -
to 248 projects which are economically and financially viable in the manufac-
turing, agro-industrial, transportation and construction sectors of the
Korean economy. The main purpose of the proposed loan is the transfer of
Bank resources to a key sector of a middle income developing country through
an efficient intermediary. The loan would also enable the Bank to continue
its mutually beneficial relationship with KDFC. As mentioned in para. 50,
the Bank Group is collaborating closely with KDFC in the ongoing re-
examination of its policies, activities and corporate structure. KDFC,
despite significant and increasing mobilization of foreign commercial funds,
continues to require a mix of official and commercial funds in order to
provide long-term finance on appropriate terms to priority investment
projects.
56.       Projects financed to date under past Bank loans to KDFC have
economic rates of return ranging from 11% to 76% and are generally heavily
export-oriented. Subprojects to be financed by KDFC under the proposed
loan are expected to produce similar economic benefits. Subprojects to be
financed under the proposed $20 million component, and leasing projects to be
financed under the proposed subloan of up to $10 million by KDFC to KDLC, are
expected to be of particular assistance to small- and medium-scale enter-
prises. Taking into account the proposed component and the subloan to KDLC,
the proposed loan would finance projects creating an estimated 10,000 new
jobs. The project does not entail any unusual risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Korea Development
Finance Corporation, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of
Korea and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of
the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III.
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 17, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6 pages
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYTRAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                KOREA REPUBLIC OF              - MOST RECENT ES IMATE)
TOTAL            98.5                                                  SAME        SAME    NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     24.4                                HOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb     REGION ,c  GROUP /d   GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                120.0       290.0    810.0            616.0      867.2      1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    258.0       815.0    1038.0           522.0      578.3      1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                       25.0        32.2      36.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 28.0       41.2      48.5            30.1       46.2        52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                     254.0       327.0    371.0            156.8       50.8        27.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   1168.0     1371.0   1496.0            794.8       93.3       116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        40.5        42.1      38.6            40.8       42.9        34.8
15-64 YRS.                        55.7        54.5      57.9            55.4       53.5        56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.8         3.4       3.5             3.2        3.5         5.7
POPULATION GROWTH BATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.8         2.3       1.8             2.3        2.5         1.6
URBAN                             5.9         6.4       5.4             5.1        4.7         3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    39.7        35.0      28.8            34.6       37.8        27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    22.9        11.4       8.9             8.7       10.8         9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.1 If      2.6       1.9             2.6        2.5         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       672.0    686.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..        42.0      34.2            22.1       20.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)            81.6       100.0    104.5            106.8      107.3       103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  85.0       114.0    115.0            108.7      105.3       110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         53.0        65.0      75.7            57.7       63.0        77.7
OF WHICN ANIMAL AND PULSE      13.0 Al     19.0      16.3            17.0       21.7        22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      ..          ..        ..             4.0        8.0         1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   56.0        65.0      68.0            59.0       57.2        63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          82.9 /h       *-      38.0            44.0       53.9        38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        58.0      66.0            21.9       56.8        67.7
URBAN                              ..        84.0      95.0            58.3       79.0        83.5
RURAL                              ..        38.0      38.0             9.8       31.8        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *-        25.0      64.0            28.6       30.9        70.3
URBAN                              ..        59.0      80.0            66.6       45.4        90.7
RURAL                              ..          ..      50.0            14.8       16.1        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         3220.0      2110.0   2100.0           4103.1    2706.8       1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    3220.0 /i   2170.0 /i 1440.0 /i       1520.2    1462.0        849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          2510.0      1900.0   1760.0            657.1      493.9       275.4
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..           145.5      229.6       129.9
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..          1011.8    2947.9        965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        14.9        ..            19.0       22.1        18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.6         5.3       5.1             5.2        5.2         3.9
URBAN                             5.4         5.0       4.9             5.2        5.0
RURAL                             5.6         5.5       5.3             5.4        5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER bOOM
TOTAL                             2.5         2.3        ..              ..        2.0         0.9
URBAN                             2.8         2.7        ..              ..        1.5         0.8
RURAL                             2.4         2.2        ..              ..        2.7         1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            28.0        50.0        ..            39.1       64.1        59.2
URBAN                            67.3        92.3        ..              ..       67.8        78.0
RURAL                            12.0        30.0      64.9              ..       34.1        12.5



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6 pages
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
KORE.A REPUBIIFC 0F                                    1±
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c   GROUP 1d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                94.0        105.0     109.0            95.6        99.8        97.6
FEMALE               88.0        105.0     109.0            93.7       93.3         87.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 27.0         43.0      59.0            43.3        33.8        47.8
FEMALE               14.0        34.0       50.0            38.6        29.8        42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 14.0         16.0      16.0             11.3       12.8        22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           58.0         57.0      52.0             30.0       34.9        25.4
SECONDARY                         34.0         37.0      38.0            25.4        22.2        24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        70.6        87.0      92.0 /t          84.0       71.8        96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPUILATION                        0.4          2.0       2.4             9.3        12.4        32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        32.0        126.0     144.0            97.6       104.5       201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.3         13.0      48.0            21.8        28.1        97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  69.0       138.0     175.0             25.9       45.2        70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0          5.0       3.0              4.6        4.6         4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     7500.0      10200.0  [3100.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  25.8         32.7      32.8            33.2        25.7        17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             66.0         50.4      44.6             48.4       46.2        38.4
INDUSTRY (PEBCrNT)                 9.3         20.1      22.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                33.4        35.0      36.6             38.9       33.8        33.7
MALE                                 49.5        46.8      48.8             48.6       48.1        50.8
FEMALE                               17.2        23.0      24.2             28.4       17.3        12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.5         1.4       1.2              1.2        1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.1 ]k      17.1      16.1             17.3       23.6        20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  42.3 /k      44.5      45.3            45.6        52.3        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.7 kI       7.1       5.7              6.5        4.3         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.0         17.7      16.9             17.3       13.1        13.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     220.0            140.8      191.9
RURAL                               ..           ..     200.0            112.8      193.1       157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     194.0               ..      319.8       448.8
RURAL                               ..           ..     176.0             76.8      197.7       313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..           ..       9.0             27.7       19.8        23.2
RURAL                                ..          ..      14.0             40.4       35.1        54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for ech indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
fb    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper Middle Income
($1136-$2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  1950-55;  LI  1962;   /h  1957;   Ji Registered, not all practisiog
in the country;   LI  Aged 10 years and over;   1k  1965.
September 1978



ANNEX I
(EY TO COUNTRIES BY REGION AND INCOME CROUP/a                                               Page   3   of   6   pages
Rogion..nTot-  Group               Low Intone/h                      Lower Middle                Intermediate Middle                    Upper Middle           High In.o fe/i               C  uetr-in
Tecetae/c                     I_ncee/d                             ene/l-t                                        OIl Eoporter-
Benin                    talawi            Angola                   Chane                                   DJibouti                   Gab-o
Buroedi                 Mali              Betsaan-                   Iooy Co-at                             Reunion
Central Afi.an Ep.   Moe-abiqqe            Ceroon                   Mauritiun
Chad                    Niger             Cape Verde                Mania
C_noron                 Rwande            Cogo, P.R.                Seychell.e
Ethiopia                Sierra Leon.       Equatorial iwine.
AFRSTC  SOUTN         GaHbia, The              SInali.           Liberia
OF SAHARA             Guioec                   Tenzanic          M-aritania
Fiee-B- ...aau          To.o              Nigeria
Kenya                   Iganda             ihodnaic
L-otho                  Upp_r Volta       Sla  Tone & Priocipe
Madageanar              Zaire              Senegal
loden
So..iland
Zambia
NORTH AFRICA         TEnon t.E.                                  Morden iran                                                                                 Oman                         Luiht
EAST                  Yemen  P D R                                                         BRrian   L.  Iraq                                                                                 di Arbi
United Arcb risr
Afghbait-an             Moldin-a
SOUTH ASIA            Bhgtan                   NPakisan
Borma                   Sri Lanka
India
CGonhdia                                 NDe  Hebrides              China, Sep  Of                          Fiji                       Aneritan Samoa
Indoneala                                 PapuM N.e  Guinea         Gilbert Gtlanda                         Roof Kong                 Brunei
FOSS ASIA             Lao P.D.R.                                 Philippines               Korea, Rp, of                                                     Franth Pul.nee.i
Saloon                                    hlanda  Shail.ad         MaC-o Gwen
Vist INn                                   Tonga                    Malanaid                                                           New Caledoni
Witaern Snawa            Truat Territory of the Pacific                                     Singapore
Haiti                                    BNlivia                    Antigue           Guatemala             Argentine                  Baha..a
El SBlnador              Belie.            Ja..ic-               BarladoI                   Bermuda
Cranada                  Chile             Hxcoa                 Brael                      Canal 7Zne
LND  CARIBBEAN                                                   Foyana                    Colonhla          Ninaragac            Frenb GuInea                MartiniIue
ulD CANIBSUAN                                    S~~~~~~ondurce           Codas Ricr         Paraguay             Fuadeloupe                 Uteneusula
St. Vinnet               Dominica           Peru                 Netherlando  kntillee      VirgSn Ilaanda (U0S.)
Dmi.nican R.p.   St. Kitta-Nevi        Panama
E-uador           St. Lu_i             Puerto Rico
Suninacee
Trinidad &E Tobago
Erucuap
Tur-ey                                 Cyproc                     Chne  IIa da
EUROPE                                                                                                                            M.lt.                      Gib-eltan
Portugal                  France
qgonena                   Greenland
Y.goaIlanl                 Spain
Australia         Finland                       Italy               Nor-ey                  Unirnd Staten
INDUSTRIALIZED         ustria            ranF e                       Japan                Souh Afri
COUNTRIES             Belgin            GFantasy FPd. Rep. of         Lun ..h              Ot rdg
Canada            Iceland                        UNetherlad         SwiteIlad
Dma-ank           Ireland                       New  e    d         United Kingdn
Albanai          Ge.a-n Dq  R-p.            USSR
Buogari-         HBug-ry
CENTRALLY PLANNED    China P.R. of    Kore  D     Rep. of
ECONOMIES             Cbaa              Mongolia
CGeeheelonakia   Poland
/s  B-aed on 1976 GNP par uspita in 1976 DB dolla.
7   SdOI or le-e par capita.
/c$2851-550 par capita.
'd  S501-1135 pact .pit.
/e  $113E-250  per capita.                                                                                                                                                                            FPDFS
Lf  o_en $2500 p-r c-pita.



ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                 Page   4   of   6   pages
Notes:  Although the data are drawn frcm  sourcas generally judged the most authoritative and reliable, it should also be noted that they may not be inter-
nationally nomparable because of the lack of standardized definitions and concepts used by different countries in collecting the data. The data are, nonetheless,
useful to describe orders of magnitude, indicate trends, and characterize certain major differences between countries.
The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, escluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated Country in each group.  Co-erage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of date and is not uniform.  Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and emcreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (tiou.and  q. kh)                                                             Population per hespital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters,                       urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                 available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                   habilitstion centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                            at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health mid sdi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                  cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical ar
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (197i-77 basis);              sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970. and 1977 data,                                                             provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of comercial energy                     frem hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petrolsu, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                   HOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, urban. end rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                           A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (aillions) - As of July 1; if not available,                  and their  ain mels.  A boarder or lodger may or nay not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                          the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                    hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                  Average number of persons per room  - total, urban, end rural - Average  um-
of data among countries,                                                               ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                       dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings "clude non-permanent structures ad
Per  sq. kr. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                  unoccupied parts.'
of total area.                                                                       Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, end rural -
Per so. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                  Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                  of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-             gDUCATION
year population.                                                                    Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                  Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                      at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                  populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted fez
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                     different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 end                   cation earollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are blow or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for moat recent estimate                     above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                   Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                  tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                         vides general vocational, or teacher training instrurtions for pupils
Gross reproduction rats - Average number of daughters a women will bear                  usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal seproductive period if she experiences present age-                      excluded.
*pecific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                 Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                        clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operete independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                       or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national fmily                 Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning prograsm                                                                      primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Fmily planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                        sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control              Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                        a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                    CONSUMPTION
Inden of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                  Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita anhual production of all food commdities,                                     seating less than eight parsons; ecludes mbulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of resoirements) - Computed from                vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita              Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less              broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlime_ed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,             receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets we  in
quantities u"ed in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                 effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since met countries
quiremenrt were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-               abolished licensing.
ma  activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                 TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to gemrtl
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                 public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coom-
Cent for waste at household level,                                                     tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (arams per day) - Protein content of per                 Newspaper circulation (par thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                   tion of "daily general interest newspar", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for a11 countries established by USDA provide for                 cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is conidered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                  be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and puls  protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.           Cinema  nnul attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                  sold during the year, including admiesions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grame  of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                   units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animel and pulse - Protein supply of food             EMPLOYMENT
derived from  nimals and pulses in grams per day.                                   Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Definl-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                             tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Pea,le labor force as percentage of total labor force,
HEALTH                                                                                 Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                       as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                              electricity, water end gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                 Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                              female labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                 These are 110's adjusted participation rates reflecting Me-sex
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                   structure of the population, and long time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                 Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                   the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area s public fountain or standpost located not more                   INCOXE DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within res-                 Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                  percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that tho housewife or me bers of the household do not have to                    of households.
spend a dioproportionate part of the day in fetching the fa,ily's
water needs.                                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excrets disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                Estimated absolute poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Nuober of people (total, urban, and rural) served by exmreta                     Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a aimimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Escreta                      nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is mat
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                      affordable.
treatment, of human sucrets end waste-water by water-borne systems                  Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                   Relative poverty income level is that income level 1ess than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                    per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                     Estimated population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rurel -
Popul utucn per nursing person - Population divided by number of                         Percent of population (urban end rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing und  and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                      "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant urses.
Economic and Social Data Division
Economic Analysis and Projections Department



00     --'-             "0             0           0          =  -  -                    0
0   joan o-I                                      -
0    00000000           '0             00         '0        000
0,0  OlD 0    12CI0
ID  oo,I--  V22V2O-                      <00220    000
OQOIDIDO   '0<10D0I1I--00'0,1 0000   10101,0 '0000010,1010  '0l110010H0 -0'0oO,'-'0,-- -
,1,1,10   I'.IDO'D  -DO  00000.10000  '1  0,001D  0-'-,-'-o-,10    0 DID 0 0 00000   '01
-    0000"    11000,100  0 0,10-00000-OIDIDO   ,100 OOj   0,1001--  0'*i'*i'iool  -
0-100010  0  000  110    DDO0        0       00,1111110    0
oBo 00    a  0-00   --,    0100    HI--ID 0  0000 a'-'-  00--
0000'D       0   0  0  000,-  0         ---''0-0-   0,D,-'-I,0  00000   0    0-0
00000,10    00  a-  o  00  ,1,1,0   0D0  10 010  00    -'-c--Do
0-1010100    0I-'00000  00,000-0 000I-Io,I, '-.1  0- 00'0-o10 0 00000000  0
0   000000   '0  0100<0  00-10000  0- 001100,11            00000              0100    00
0100,1     0000   00  '00  0010  -  2ID000             11011     0     '01-.- 00H    0
00  11-0-   0000   OlD  000  001                    0         0  I-'- '0   O 0-00  00
01-000    0-00-0-  0   0'o  0100  0  0  0oD.-       0  '-00   10  0  10 000000 H  100
o  00-0-   0,-oH-  oh-- 010.-OH   DO   00-    0  010            00 10 01,
0<  0   0'-   In '0  -0"  0  0  -'-0-ac   o, 0             0  0  0  ao  0o-
00-0    00000              0  0  ID     0000    0  0-'  00         0  '-'-a  00    00
'0,1,0.    0  '1,1  0'      CD   0  '1  0-00'--   0  0,0  00          0    0-0    0
-I-jo    0  0   0-4       o0                     10 100       0      IDIO   0   001
0,0      0  0          0  00        0-    100  00
01'       2  I-ié    II -0        --    0,1  '00   10
0        It      '0                                           H  O-
0  .0              0       000                                        010
2
00  10                     010
ID                              2. oooo'-o            '00  ,0000  01.0,0000,0     -
ID  10                               000000    0000         00  00-00  000000000        00
00                          00 000,000    00 00        000-00-0000000              00
00  0-         00    000000000
H  0   00001-0 00 00           . 0
o  0   000000000  000e ,0000                            000  0000  0000.00          -
2                                                          000000,00-0000              00
j            000-0000           00
00000-000                            00     -         -  -
.0   000000001                                                -
0000000  0000000-00  0  -                         0,0  00000
0  00000000    000        00,0  0-00  0000000000
22
000000    00000        000  0000  0,00000          Oj    0
00-                               .                         0000000000000                      0
0000000000        0        0  -  00                00  000000000000                  0
000                0       0'        0,0-000    000         000000000000000             00
0000000000  00000000Cr   000.-'00    00000         00  0000  00000000          00    00
10000,1000                                                        0     00
oo-o-oo'Oo                                                              00
00000010,1                                                              0
00(0    "00                         00     0-        00   00           0
2  'o    -                                  000000  g        00    00
0-,1  1000    000000    000                    000000
00000000,0      0   00    00000    00000          0000 0000  00000,0  ,0      00     H
.0    0-   10             .   ...                             .       0
0       0000,0,000    0   0  '00   00000    000,0          000  00-0  000000  0        0     00
00,1  -                             0     00        0  0               0-
1010  0  0   000' 0                 00  0000  0'-000-.--- 00          00
0,1  '-'000    0000,00    000       0000  o000  000000000      00    00
00    .00    0000000-   0000        00,0  00000  00000000       00    D'D
00000000000         00    000000    000000        0000  0000  -'0000000        00
O                 ID   00                                  0     00  0000000  0
0                       0                                  0'00  00    0000000          '0
0                       '1                                                    I        00,1
0                       00          01-'-'-'-              0000000000000               000
0          0000000000             00000000000000              0I"
0                                              .11                             .         B
O       00  0-0000-                 00.-00    0000         00000   00000000
0,                   000000,0,00                                              I        00
O                                  0000000    0000         0000000000000,00            0010
0000000-   000,0      00 0  1-00  00000000         0,1
(0                   000000000100    . . ...V
0000000,0000000000                                 3 0000,00000                ID
00                   00-0000  00100 000,00000   0000       00000000000000
.10  COoCO    0000          00  00000
000,0000 010
00 0000 00000 0
0000--- 00100
000000000,0                           000  000000000
000000,000 olo
000000  0010-                         00  00,0   0000  0
.00                           0000  0,0   0000-  00      0010
000000                               000- 00    0000  0                      00
0000000-00100                         .                                        1-4
'100                        000  -0    0000000
000        0
0000-00000 0                           00



ii BK  kC                    At-B
B.BBIBB.B.  CB-B-.                                    B.BB   V-                                                                                        -  B-B--C                    -,
BBBBB.B.BB-BBB
B-BC C
-    B BBB.BB                CB.B.B.B. B-                 -, -                                                             B-             I
-,    B  B       B S                               I                                                                             -    B B  B             B
SB-B-                                                                                                                          B
B  B.BBBB             BB. B                                                                                                                                     B B    B  B          B
BBB.SB                 B             -                                        BB   B.B   - BBBB   S
B - BBB
B B                                                                                                B              B  - B
BfrB
B  B B        B- B. B                                                            B    B        B
'B
BBS  B>'B'
B.      B. B.             '    B-       B. B. B
B.      -           B-              B.          B.                    I-B B. B.      -       I B. B-                 B.B.IB
B       B                                                                        BC      B.B.   B-B.B-B.B.B.                  B.   B.B.B-B.B.B.                   B. B.B.       B.B.CBSBB.           I B-B.
B-   B. B. I-B B.   B.   B.        -B B.>        B-'B  BBB B.-   B. B. B    B. B-B-
B-   BB         B.               B        B. B.                     B B-B                  SB-             B B    C B. B.
B-      B.B    B. B.   B. B. B.              B.B-B.IB-B.B.                      B-,-          B-B.                   B. B.
B.   -BBBB.B.B.B.B.                                                      B.B.    B.B.B.
B-B.C      -   B-B.    BB-                B- -BB.B.B-B.- -B                    B.   B.---    B.B-B-              B.   B.
B. B. B.         B.   B. B.          LA       tt7
B.                                                                         B                                                  C    COB-I           B-B-B.         B.B-B.        B.*B    'SOB. IB.B-B-    B.B.B.                      B-S        00
B.                                -                B.                                       -                 B.                     B. B. B.                        B. B.
B. B.            B. B-B.B.SB      -SB           B.             B.   B. B. B-                      B-B.B.        B-B.
B.    CB.B.B-B-              I                     -B                                       B.       B-B.   B.>>   I SB B. -B   B. B.
-     -               IA                      - B. B.
B.            B.  IB-BBB.    I-B-B         SBB.B-                             S
B-   B.B--BA<St-I                                      -BB-SC         B.B-B.         B-B- B.        B B.  *B-B.B. I B. B. B.   B. B. B.
B.   B-B-B.   B.B.   B-B-                     B.   B.B.B.-B       B.B-B.         -B B. B.         B.   B.B.B.    B.B.B-    SB    -
B. I B. B. B. B B. B. B B. B. I              -    -B SBB.         B-B-B.         B.B-B.         I
S
I
B.   B-B.B.   B.B.   B. B-                   B.   B-B.B.B.    B.B.B.             B.B. -           B.B.B.    B.B.B.    B-B. B.
B-I B-B-lB-B- lB-B-I                          B-B.B.-BB-B.B.B.B-B.SB                            lB.  IB.B.B-  B-B B. B.  B. B. B.
B-B-                            S
B.         B.          B-            B                                    -    -       I                                              I             'I
I  B B.       B B-         B              B                      B. B.         B.   B-B. B-B             B.       B- B. B.          B.   B. B. B-    I B. B.   B. B. B.
B.         B.   B-,-B       B.B.'BB                                       B.   B-B.B.B.    BOB.               B-B.>
B-   BBB         BBB   B-   B. B. B. B. B. B- B- B-            B.   B- B. B. B.   B-SB B.         B. B.            C    B. B. B.   B. B. B.   B. B- B.
BBBB+B.B-   BBBBBB-B                                    -                                                                                   B.B                  B
B    B.BB.'BBB                                                             B. B.                              B.          B. B.            B.
B  B S    B  B B-         B- B- B. B B B B                                    -  B. B.      B- B. B.          B.   B-B-B.    B-B. B.   B- B. B.                 SB B
B-                               B. B. B.       B. SB B.         B.   B.B.B.    B.-BB.   B. B- B.                  B.
BBS   BBB-B   BB.B-B   B-B                                            I  B.B.B.    B.B.B                 B>    B.B.ICB.B.B-B.B.                                 B.
BBB.BBB    S B   -B B. B B-                                                                                                       I          B. B             B.
B B B-   B B- B                                                      B. B                 B.            B.       B- -B B.             B.
B-   B B B B. B.   B                                                       B  B                                                             B
B    B. B B. B B. B  B                                    B. B- B.      B. B. B.         B.    B.B-B.   B-B-B.   B.B.B                     B.
B-B-B.   B-B--B           BB-  B BBBBB-BBBBBB                                                        B.B.C         B-SBB.            B.  -B B.C   B.B.B.  B-B. B-
B. B    B-                              I    B- SB B.       B. C  B.       I B.   B-B.C  IB.B.B            B. B. B.
B  I B.   B           B B        B.      B-    B B B    S B B.
B       S                -
B. I



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1978)
Loan or                                                            Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                            (less cancellations)
Number  Year        Borrower             Purpose              Bank   TW    IDA  Undisbursed
Ten loans and nine credits fully disbursed                   466.5         106.8
795    1972   ADC                    Irrigaticn              33.0                    0.1
863    1972   Republic of Korea   Railways IV                40.0                    0.7
906    1973   Republic of Korea   Education II               23.0                   17.6
917    1973   Republic of Korea   Ports I                    80.0                   16.2
942    1973   Republic of Korea   Seeds Production            7.0                    3.8
953    1974   Republic of Korea   Tourism                    25.0                    7.1
956    1974   Republic of Korea   Highways II                47.0                    0.1
994    1974   AFDC                  Agriculture              13.0                    5.7
1070    1975   Republic of Korea   Secondary Cities           15.0                    5.3
1096    1975   Republic of Korea   Education III              22.5                   14.9
1101    1975   Republic of Korea   Railways V                100.0                   13.0
1145    1975   KDFC V                Dev. Fin. Co.            55.0                    0.2
1175    1975   MIB - I               Dev. Fin. Co.            30.0                    1.8
1193    1976   Republic of Korea   Second Integrated          15.0                    4.6
Dairy Development
1203    1976   Republic of Korea   Highways III               90.0                  46.9
1216 &  1976   Republic of Korea   Rural Infra-               20.0                    2.1
1218-T                                  structure I                 40.0              4.2
1319    1976   ADC                    Irrigation              29.0                   28.1
1328    1976   Republic of Korea   Agricultural Credit   20.0                        12.7
1338    1976   KDB II                 Dev. Finance Co.        82.5                   26.1
1364    1977   ADC                    Irrigation              95.0                   92.8
1401    1977   Republic of Korea   Ports II                   67.0                   67.0
1461    1977   KDFC VI                Dev. Finance Co.        70.0                   38.8
1466    1977   Republic of Korea   Heavy Machinery            80.0                   63.0
1474    1977   Republic of Korea   Vocational Training   23.0                        23.0
1503    1978   ADC - Ogseo Stage I Agriculture/Irri-
gation               36.0                   36.0
1507    1978   MIB - II               Dev. Finance Co.        55.0                   35.1
1530    1978   Republic of Korea   Rural Infrastruc-
ture II              95.0                   92.8
1542    1978   Republic of Korea   Railway VI                120.0                  120.0
1574    1978   KDB III                DFC                    110.0                  110.0
Total                                             1,964.5  40.0  106.8   889.7
of which has been repaid                           68.3    -      1.1
Total now outstanding                             1,896.2  40.0  105.7
Amount sold                    7.1
of which has been repaid   1.9                      5.2    -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                  1,891.0  40.0  105.7
Total undisbursed                                   885.5   4.2    0.0   889.7



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30. 1978)
Fiscal                                                        Amount ($ million)
Year   Obligor                Type of Business                 Loan  Equity  Total
1968   KDFC                   Development Financing              -     0.7    0.7
1969   Honan Silk Co.         Textiles                          1.4    0.3    1.7
1970   Atlas Paper            Pulp and paper                    4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.          Capital Market Development        -      0.6    0.6
1974   KDFC                   Development Financing              -     0.4    0.4
1974   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.          Capital Market Development        -      0.3    0.3
1975   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                   Electronic Products             16.0    1.3   17.3
1975   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.          Capital Market Development    5.0    0.6    5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.          Synthetic Fibers                 6.9    2.1    9.0
1975   Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.   Tourism                            2.8    0.7    3.5
1976   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.          Capital Market Development        -      0.4    0.4
1976   Chungju Paper
Mfg. Co.               Paper                            5.0    0.5    5.5
1976   Korea Zinc Co., Ltd. Zinc                               15.0    4.0   19.0
1976   KDFC                   Development Financing            17.8     -    17.8
1976   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                   Electronic Products             10.0    0.4   10.4
1977   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                   Electronic Products                      0.2    0.2
1977   KDFC                   Development Financing                    0.3    0.3
1977   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.          Capital Market                    -      0.5    0.5
1977   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.          Capital Market                  15.0    0.4   15.4
1978   KDFC                   Development Finar,cing            -      0.1    1.1
1979   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd                                                      -      1.7    1.7
Total gross commitment                                 99.4   17.0  116.4
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                44.1    1.0   45.1
Total commitments now held by IFC                      55.3   16.0   71.3
Total undisbursed                                        -     1.1    1.1
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 795      Yong San Gang Irrigation Project; $33.0 Million Loan
Credit No. 283   and $15.0 Million Credit of February 2, 1972; Effective
Date: September 15, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project, located in one of the most drought-prone areas of
Korea, provides four storage dams, canal systems and land development to
irrigate 33,700 ha. The project was delayed initially by modifications
in the design of the dams and later when rapid inflation outpaced the
allocation of local funds. The dams have now been completed and about
19,000 ha was irrigated in 1977. Good progress is being made on other
works which are expected to be completed before the end of 1978, about
18 months behind schedule. Consequently, the Closing Date has been extended
from September 30, 1977 to December 31, 1978. The project cost is estimated
at about $151 million compared to $88.6 million at appraisal, but because
of increases in rice and barley prices, the economic rate of return is
expected to be close to the appraisal estimate of 13%.
Loan No. 942      Seeds Project; $7.0 Million Loan of November 16, 1973;
Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
Progress of implementation is satisfactory and physical implemen-
tation should be completed by June 1979, one year later than the appraisal
estimate. The Closing Date has been postponed from December 1978 to December
1979. The four seed potato storage and processing plants are expected to be
completed in 1978. The final two cereal plants should be completed and ready
for operations by June 1979. Disbursements are now 46% of the loan amount,
however, it is estimated that disbursements will be nearly completed by June
1979. All plants will operate on a pilot basis in 1979 and would reach an
average of 75% of capacity by 1980.
Loan No. 994      Integrated Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$13.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1974; Effective Date:
March 19, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project provides long-term funds to the Agriculture and
Fisheries Development Corporation (AFDC) for onlending to subborrowers in the
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12 pages
private sector for the purpose of integrating on-farm production of fruits
and vegetables with modern, hygienic processing facilities, using land that
was idle or underutilized. The vegetables and fruits involved are mainly
asparagus, shiitake (oak mushroom), spinach, mushroom, strawberry and peach.
Implementation of the project was delayed by about 18 months owing to lack
of loan demand for some of the processing facilities included in the project.
However, the project is now progressing satisfactorily since September 1977
when the Bank approved AFDC's proposal to widen the project's scope to meet
changed investor demand. Under the revised scope, AFDC will finance
processing and cold storage of fish, meat, fruits and vegetables, and also
fruit juice extraction and concentration and vegetable drying, for which the
loan demand is strong. Subloan applications and approvals have increased
significantly, and AFDC expects to disburse all the project funds by the end
of 1979. Disbursements as of September 30, 1978 were over 56% of the loan.
Loan No. 1193    Second Integrated Dairy Development Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1976; Effective Date:
November 11, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) the establishment of about 450 new
dairy farms; (b) the continuation of the development begun as part of the
First Integrated Dairy Beef Project on about 400 dairy farms; (c) the expan-
sion of existing processing plants, the diversification of their production,
the establishment of 2 milk collection centers and 50 small milk cooling
units and the construction of a milk products plant at Yeongnam; and (d) the
expansion of technical services for both farm development and milk processing.
Effectiveness of the project was delayed for about a year, but farm develop-
ment is progressing rapidly and the project may be completed within the
period originally foreseen. Although technical assistance for new farmers
has been somewhat weak, the Korea Dairy Beef Company (KDBC) is in the
process of strengthening its farm advisory staff. Construction of KDBC's
new processing plant and expansion of one of the existing plants are under
way. KDBC's financial situation improved over the course of 1976 and the
company showed a profit for the first time in 1977.  Prospects are for
continued, gradual improvement. As of September 30, 1978, disbursements were
over 69% of the loan.
Loan No. 1216    Rural Infrastructure Project; $60.0 Million Loan of which
Loan No. 1218T   $40.0 Million Third Window of March 19, 1976; Effective Date:
June 4, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Project implementation is proceeding very well.  The Fuelwood,
Roads and Bridges, Water Supply and Rural Electrification components were
completed by the end of 1977. Minor Irrigation has experienced some delays,
mainly the result of budgetary shortages and a cost overrun of 18%, but
should be substantially completed by early 1979. Upland reclamation is
proceeding in accordance with the revised time schedule and will be
completed in 1978. Project monitoring and reporting continue to be satis-
factory and a good start has been made on the Hydrologic Services Study and a



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12 pages
major project evaluation study. The estimated cost of the project is likely
to be 16% above the appraisal estimate, mostly as a result of cost overruns
for Minor Irrigation and Rural Electrification and an increase in the size of
the Water Supply component. Disbursements are practically in line with
appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; $29.0 Million
Loan of August 5, 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This project, located in the central region of Korea, is being
financed under the first Bank loan for area development in Korea. A project
office has been established, and construction work has started on the first
of five major civil work contracts. Altogether, the five contracts will,
involve construction of 8 large and 19 small earthfill dams, 284 km of main
and secondary canals and land development for irrigating 12,700 ha. The
project, which will require five years to complete, also involves construction
of 80 km of river channel improvement and 150 km of village access roads, as
well as feasibility studies for a second stage project in the Miho Watershed.
Loan No. 1328    Second Agricultural Credit Project; $20.0 Million Loan
of October 12, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is a continuation and expansion of the agricultural
program financed under the First Agricultural Credit Project (Credit 335-KO).
It provides funds to the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF)
for medium and long-term loans to farmers, through selected Gun (county)
cooperatives of NACF, for investments in apple orchard development, silkworm
rearing houses, sprinkler irrigation for orchards, greenhouses for vegetable
production, and on-farm storage. The project became effective on March 10,
1977 and lending to subborrowers commenced in the following month. Project
implementation and lending to farmers are generally progressing satisfactorily,
with lending in 1977 exceeding the appraisal estimate. As of September 30,
1978, disbursements were about 37% of the total loan.
Loan No. 1364    Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II; $95.0 Million
Loan of February 11, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide irrigation and land development on
20,700 ha in the lower reaches of the Yong San River. Project works include
an estuary dam, sea dike, pumping stations, irrigation canals, reclamation of
5,500 ha of tidal lands, conversion of 3,250 ha of uplands for irrigation of
paddy, land consolidation of 3,200 ha, and irrigation of 1,050 ha of uplands.
Construction of the access roads and a portion of the estuary dam was recently
completed. The main contract for estuary dam construction was awarded in
December 1977, in line with the appraisal schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1503    Ogseo Area Development Project - Stage I; $36.0 Million
Loan of January 4, 1978; Effective Date:  March 29, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project will benefit some 23,000 farm families by providing
new irrigation on 7,100 ha, improved irrigation and drainage on 3,700 ha and
a more assured water supply on an additional 1,500 ha. Project work consists
of nine pumping stations, 190 km of main and secondary canals and land
development including 5,800 ha of land consolidation, 2,500 ha of improved
drainage (of which 1,500 ha would also be consolidated), 2,200 ha of tertiary
irrigation and conversion of 1,800 ha of upland and forest to paddy land.
Loan No. 1530    Rural Infrastructure ProJect II, $95.0 Million Loan of
March 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 8, 1978;
Closing Date: June 12, 1982
The project would assist the Government's program to intensify
agricultural production, thereby raising rural incomes and foodgrain produc-
tion, and to improve the quality of rural life. The project includes
60 irrigation subprojects on about 9,200 ha, construction of water supply
systems in about 7,400 villages, construction or improvement of about
2,500 km of river banks, connnection of about 2,700 villages to the telephone
network and the installation of about 75,000 subscriber's lines, and training
and project monitoring and evaluation. The project would benefit about
7.7 million people or about 48% of Korea's rural population.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1145    Fifth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$55.0 Million Loan of July 23, 1975; Effective Date:
September 5, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The loan covered about half the KDFC's foreign exchange require-
ments through the end of 1977. The proceeds are being used to finance
direct imports of machinery and equipment, and the foreign exchange component
of domestically-produced capital goods and of civil works. Over 99% of the
loan proceeds have already been disbursed. KDFC's performance in using
the loan has been highly satisfactory.
Loan No. 1175    Medium Industry Bank (MIB); $30.0 Million Loan of
November 26. 1975; Effective Date: January 28, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides funds to MIB to make subloans to small
and medium-sized manufacturing enterprises. The project is progressing
satisfactorily. Disbursements are 94% of the total loan.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1338    Second Korea Development Bank Project; $82.5 Million
Loan, of which $7.5 Million for the Korea Industrial
Leasing Company, of December 23, 1976; Effective Date:
March 21, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides $75.0 million to be used by KDB to make
subloans and investments to finance direct imports for industrial subprojects
during the period 1977-78; the remainder of the loan, $7.5 million, was
relent by KDB to its wholly-owned subsidiary KILC, to acquire machinery,
equipment, facilities and other property to be leased to investment enter-
prises. Commitment of funds is progressing as expected; as of September 30,
1978, disbursements were over 68% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1461    Sixth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$70.0 Million Loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date:
September 15, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The loan was made to help cover the foreign exchange requirements
of industrial subprojects to be financed by KDFC subloans in 1977-78.
KDFC's performance has been very satisfactory. As of September 30, 1978,
commitments reached $69.0 million.
Loan No. 1466    Heavy Machinery Project; $80.0 Million Loan of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: December 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is designed to manufacture equipment required for
power generation, steel mills, and chemical and petrochemical plants. It
consists of: (a) foundry and forge shops; (b) fabrication shops; (c) machine
shops; (d) assembly and test shops; (e) support facilities; (f) other
auxiliary facilities; and (g) technical assistance. Project costs have been
increased by 24% above the appraisal estimate due to addition of equip-
ment to meet increased emphasis in nuclear power plant in KECO's construction
program; and depreciation of the US Dollar since appraisal. Project implemen-
tation is proceeding well, although increased project scope and some procure-
ment delays have extended the targeted completion date to April 1980. The
company is to submit a plan of action to the Bank soon, to achieve, by year-
end the debt equity ratio to 70:30 level specified in the Project Agreement.
As of September 30, 1978, disbursements were over 20% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1507    Second Medium Industry Bank Project; $55.0 Million Loan
of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 10, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides $55.0 million, to be used by MIB to help
cover the foreign exchange requirements of industrial subprojects over four
years. A substantial portion of the loan - $20.0 million - would be earmarked
to assist small-scale, labor-intensive subprojects creating employment at a
gross capital cost per job not greater than $6,000 or enterprises whose fixed
assets are not greater than $250,000. As of September 30, 1978, disbursements
were over 36% of the loan amount.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1574      Third Korea Development Bank Project, $110 Million Loan
of June 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan would be used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB; apart from direct imports, the
loan would be utilized by KDB to finance the foreign exchange component of
domestically produced capital goods. An amount of up to $10.0 million of
the proceeds of the proposed loan would be made available to KDB's subsidiary,
the Korea Industrial Leasing Corporation Ltd. (KILC), by way of subloans in
order to finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects. Overall progress
is satisfactory. Commitments started in October 1978.
Education Sector
Loan No. 906      Second Education Prolect; $23.0 Million Loan and
Credit No. 394   $20.0 Million Credit of June 13, 1973; Effective Date:
September 10, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project provides equipment for, and extensions to, 85 educa-
tional institutions at secondary, post secondary and university levels. It
also includes preinvestment studies on health and management education. The
Loan/Credit funds are mainly used to finance equipment, with the Government
financing the related civil works. Project execution is now about two years
behind schedule. Initial project actions were slow owing to staff shortages
in the Project Implementation Unit and the Office of Supply (OSROK), causing
delays in the preparation of designs and equipment lists. A government
internal review of procurement procedures halted equipment procurement for
almost a year. These problems are now largely resolved and the project has
been making steady progress. About 70% of the equipment has been contracted,
and 40% delivered; furniture procurement has been completed; civil works are
about 90% complete; and the fellowship program is well under way. However,
because of the initiai delays and some project changes recently requested by
the Borrower, the project is now expected to be completed by June 1979;
consequently, the Closing Date was extended to December 31, 1979 to allow
time for the completion of procurement. The Credit has been totally disbursed
as well as 24% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1096    Third Education Project; $22.5 Million Loan of March 31,
1975; Effective Date: June 6, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
The project includes assistance for extensions and equipping of
nine institutions (technical, agricultural and fisheries) under the Ministry
of Education (MOE) and seven vocational training institutes (VTIs) under the
Administrator of Labor Affairs (ALA). Project implementation is about
one year behind schedule. Lack of counterpart funds for consultants' fees
during the first 20 months delayed preparation of the design and bidding
documents in the MOE component. Changes of the training program of the ALA
component during implementation necessitated revisions and subsequent delays;
however, because of recent progress in both MOE and ALA components, these



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12 pages
delays will not affect the Closing Date of June 30, 1980. Project costs are
below the appraisal estimates. As of September 30, 1978, disbursements were
around 34% of the total loan and should improve significantly in the months
ahead.
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Million Loan of
July 22, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The loan provides funds to help finance: (a) construction of and
equipment for 8 Vocational Training Institutes (VTIs), with 450 places each
with boarding facilities; (b) equipment for the Central Vocational Training
Institute (CVTI); and (c) expert services for the Vocational Training Bureau
(VTB), and specialist services to the CVTI and VTIs. Since effectiveness,
overall progress has been satisfactory. About 25% of the civil works had been
tendered by June 1978 (two of the eight VTIs), equipment lists for the two
VTIs (25% of the total) have also been prepared by the Project Implementation
Unit and approved by the Bank. Adequate local funds have been provided.
Tourism Sector
Loan No. 953     Kyonglu Tourism Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
January 4, 1974; Effective DaLe: May 6, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project forms part of the first phase of the planned develop-
ment of the Bomun Lake resort near Kyongju. It provides for a multipurpose
dam; an irrigation system for about 1,200 ha; improvement and expansion of
the water supply and sewerage and solid waste disposal systems for the city
of Kyongju and the resort area; installation of electrical supply and tele-
communication facilities for the resort area; the construction and/or realign-
ment of about 57 km of roads, infrastructure, including storm water drain-
age, environmental sanitation, community facilities, and a golf course; and
and a school for training hotel personnel. Project implementation is now
progressing satisfactorily although completion of some project components is
likely to be delayed by about a year, due mainly to budgetary constraints.
The Government has now taken steps to provide all needed funds. The delay
has had no adverse effects on hotel development. The first two hotels with
600 rooms are under construction and are scheduled to commence operations in
the spring of 1979. Negotiations with other private investors are under way
for a third hotel and also for apartments and restaurants in the Bomun
resort area. About 72% of the loan had been disbursed as of September 30,
1978.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12 pages
Regional Development
Loan No. 1070    Secondary Cities Regional Project; $15.0 Million
Loan of January 15, 1975; Effective Date: August 18,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1979
Implementation of the Secondary Cities Regional Project is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. Three housing sites, two access roads and a city
market have been completed. Construction contracts on the remaining two
subprojects are nearly on schedule. Tenders for the ninth subproject are
being evaluated. Allocation of housing plots has been completed at all
three sites and construction of core houses is under way. After the initial
delays, mainly in fulfilling conditions of effectiveness and establishing
the Gwangju Regional Development Unit, the project has moved extremely well.
Total project costs are now estimated at $22.6 million compared to the
appraisal estimate of $25.0 million ($20.8 million at current exchange
rate). As of September 30, 1978, disbursement was about 65% of the loan
amount.
Transportation Sector
Loan No, 863      Fourth Railway Project; $40.0 Million Loan of
November 22, 1972; Effective Date: February 26, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1979
The main elements of the project are: electrification of lines
in the Seoul suburban area; purchase of electric railcars and locomotives;
the completion of electrification of 350 km of line running from Seoul to
the northeastern part of Korea; track and bridge renewal; provision of yard
facilities; acquisition of passenger and freight cars; and improvement of
facilities for the maintenance and repair of motive power and rolling stock.
No major problems have been encountered; most of the loan proceeds have been
committed, and over 98% already disbursed. The Closing Date has been extended
to March 31, 1979 to allow time for the completion of procurement.
Loan No. 917      Ports Project; $80.0 Million Loan of June 27, 1973;
Effective Date: September 18, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Nine civil works contracts and ten equipment supply contracts
are already let and work is proceedin-g satisfactorily. Work is also progres-
siig on the grain handling facility and the grain silo; work on the head
house foundations has been completed. All cargo-handling equipment is on site
and under erection. Overall the project is about 90% completed. Total cost
is currently estimated to be $144 million with a foreign exchange component of
about $102 million. The loan provides $80 million foreign exchange and the
overrun is being financed by a loan of $35 million from the Saudi Fund for
Development (SFD). The Korea Maritime and Port Authority (KMPA) is adequately



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12 pages
staffed, but there has been a delay in implementing operational and financial
procedures recommended by consultants appointed to advise KMPA on these
matters. Consultants for the implementing phase have now been selected by
KMPA. Around 78% of the loan proceeds have already been disbursed.
Loan No. 956      Second Highway Project; $47.0 Million Loan of January 25,
1974; Effective Date: April 4, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The works, consisting of construction, chiefly on new alignments,
of about 130 km of highways and paving, chiefly on existing alignments, of
a further 634 km of national highways were completed on schedule and the
highways opened to traffic in October 1975. The cost, in US dollar equi-
valent, exceeded the estimate by about 5%. Feasibility studies for future
projects of about 1,000 km of roads were started in August 1975, followed by
detailed engineering. Delay occurred in setting up a new nationwide highway
maintenance organization but the organization has now been established in
accordance with decrees published in June 1975. All the maintenance offices
have been constructed and staffed and equipment procured under the loan.
The Government has agreed to increase the budgetary allocations to enable
an adequate program of periodic maintenance to be carried out. By the end
of September 1978, disbursements exceeded 99%, after extending the Closing
Date by a year to allow for procurement of spare parts needed for the
maintenance equipment.
Loan No. 1101    Fifth Railway Project; $100.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: July 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The project will help the Korean National Railroad (KNR) continue
as a major carrier of freight and passengers by providing for: the upgrading,
modernization and expansion of track, rolling stock, motive power, and
other equipment; the improvement of the efficiency of operation; and the
strengthening of its financial position. The main components of the project
are: an increase in station and line capacity and improvements in signaling;
acquisition of rolling stock, diesel and electric locomotives, spare parts
and repair facilities; track renewal and improvement; bridge strengthening;
completion of electrification of 71 km of industrial lines; and other
miscellaneous items. Contracts, financed by the loan, have been signed for
procurement of passenger and freight cars, wheel sets, spares for locomotives,
rail, bridge girders and track maintenance machinery, amounting to about
$95 million equivalent. Eighty-seven percent of the loan proceeds have
already been disbursed.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1203    Third Highway Project; $90.0 Million Loan of
February 20, 1976; Effective Date: May 17, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The loan provides funds to help finance: (a) the construction,
chiefly on new alignments, including paving, of about 195 km of four national
highways, including supervision of the work by consultants; (b) paving and
improvement, chiefly on present alignments, of nine national highways
totaling about 600 km, including supervision of the work by consultants; and
(c) feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km of national and
provincial roads, to be followed by detailed engineering. Contracts for
construction and paving are progressing substantially on schedule. The
feasibility studies are proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements to the end
of September 1978 were about 48% of the total loan.  The Saudi Fund for
Development is providing a loan of $35 million to assist in financing the
project.
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Million Loan of
April 28, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) a 700 m extension of container berths
being financed under the First Ports Project and a 335,000 sq m expansion of
the container stacking area provided under that project; dredging to provide
an alongside depth of 12.5 m; construction of an access road, inside the port
limits, a guard house, and an 8,000 sq m container freight station, and the
necessary ancillary facilities; rehabilitation of piers 3 and 4, the central
wharf, and lighter wharf No. 5; (b) procurement of container cranes, mobile
container handling equipment, and two tugboats; (c) Engineering Consultant
Services - to carry out detailed design and supervision of construction and
procurement; and (d) Technical Assistance and Training - to assist in cargo
handling (including the handling of containers), maintenance, port planning,
and accounting.
Loan No. 1542    Sixth Railway Project; $120.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1978; Effective Date: August 3, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project would provide KNR with the capacity required to meet
forecast traffic, and reduce operating and maintenance costs. It includes
continued double tracking and electrification of lines, extension of yards
and terminals, continued installation of centralized traffic control, track
and rail renewal, separation of road and rail at crossings, installation of a
permanent way workshop, procurement of diesel locomotives, passenger cars and
freight cars, provision of a new passenger car workshop, installation of
additional telecommunication and power facilities and provision of technical
assistance to KNR. The loan will also finance transport sector studies.



ANNEX III
KOREA
KOREA DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  The project was prepared in the
course of the normal and continuing
relationship between the Bank and
KDFC.
(b) Agency which prepared the
project:                       KDFC.
(c)  Date of the first Bank mission
to consider the project:       April 10, 1978.
(d) Departure of appraisal
mission:                       April 10, 1978.
(e)  Negotiations completed:           September 22, 1978.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  March 15, 1978.
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
No specific action is considered necessary.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) KDFC will maintain a long-term debt/equity limit of 10:1
(para. 52).
(b) Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan would be used
by KDFC to finance the foreign exchange component (estimated at
60%) of domestically procured capital goods (para. 52).
(c) The free limit on subprojects would be increased from $2.5 million
to $4.0 million (para. 52).
(d) A component of $20.0 million (20% of the proposed loan) would be
earmarked to finance enterprises with fixed assets not exceeding
$750,000, or projects generating employment at a fixed investment
cost per job not greater than $12,500 (para. 53).
(e) An amount of up to $10.0 million of the proceeds of the proposed
loan would be made available to KDLC by way of subloans (para. 54).






1oRD 12351 R
- . - U5 SiR 7 (, - : 1.77                                   l 128                       129I97
... ... ','    ... ... .. .                               KOR          AK ...' Xi.{V
KOA                    NOTH  KOREA > 
CS1 N h -  f    ,t  r                                        X ~~~~~~~~~~~~I  J  \
-  0    OS >                            g XIm~~~~~~~,rhwo5-                    \ So
SZKOREA                                                i                                              -   Soqr ss  E a st    Se a
REP OF      -.
KOREA    /
Yelaow
GY       NO7¢s Ciswl 64   CbE9 11;7,9 ds /10t tncseoS UANG    WEON  tGangneung
Parclic                                          ijeongbs
EStr      dwalst @. > Ocean,
125-                       126'                              S  U             Sheog
-p- b, th           x                     Anyong 7'                    weo       nio eongseon            '4,
Ye//ow         Sea                  i2                                    GIj9hO25                                                  26Y
26'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
Beobseongja--o* >?   ) r'  C\ rZ     2               G Y E 0 N 0 (Nr79Doo9r            g   Onson
37.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rmr roads
,e3,   rgonan  "y>:Ing
-. ~          .    ,' -.- P-rsimr roays
eong.u    1) .An-- ways under constn.34'
-34-  -.N ,At                                      -  Alrponts
Yellow    eayePohag4 Ports
2 L                      ~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
J           E Neupeci  cities
---- Provincal bourodarues
ueon"                                0     20   40       0    ao      0    120 , 14u 
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L z                  iOMET ERS
.                                o ~ ~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ 20  40      60        a0         00o
Beob.ono                               G Y EsnMI LES
125'                        12S'                          127-                         128'                         129'
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                     A M



