Document of              LL   @0PY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2W42-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
SITES AND SERVICES AND LOW-COST HOUSING PROJECT
January 10, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1977         November 20, 1978
Currency Unit    -       Cruzeiro (Cr$)              Cr$
US$1             -       Cr$14.1                     20.05
Cr$1             -       US$0.07                     0.05
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNH        - Banco Nacional da Habitacao
COHAB      -  Companhia de Habitacao Popular
COHAB-PE   - Companhia de Habitacao Popular do Estado de Pernambuco
COHAB-SP   - Companhia Metropolitana de Habitacao de Sao Paulo
COS        -  Carteira de Operacoes de Natureza Social
FICAM      - Financiamento de Construcao, Ampliacao e Melhoria
de Habitacao de Interes Social
PLANHAP    -  Plano Nacional de Habitacao Popular
PROFILURB  -  Programa de Financiamento de Lotes Urbanizados
SFH        -  Sistema Financeiro da Habitacao
UPC        -  Unidade Padrao de Capital
URBIS      - Habitacao e Urbanizacao da Bahia
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
9
4



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
SITES AND SERVICES AND LOW-COST HOUSING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Banco Nacional da Habitacao
Guarantor:           Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:              US$93.0 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace
at 7.00% per annum.
Relending Terms
to Final
Beneficiaries:    Repayment for housing in 25 years following grace periods
of up to 3 years at interest rates of 1.0% to 6% p.a. on
indexed principal. Repayment for community facilities in
18 years following grace periods of up to 3 years at
interest rates of 3% to 8% p.a. on indexed principal.
Proiect
Description:       The project would provide sites and services, low-cost
housing, building material loans, and community infra-
structure for the urban poor in the northeastern states of
Bahia and Pernambuco and in the metropolitan area of Sao
Paulo. In Pernambuco, it would also include a squatter
upgrading subproject. In addition, it would include a
limited number of sites and services subprojects in other
states to show the viability and replicability of low-cost
housing options for other areas in Brazil. Also for this
purpose, the project would include a technical assistance
program channelled through the Borrower. The project
would provide about 41,800 sites and services units;
19,500 embryo, semi-finished and finished low-cost housing
units; and 23,200 loans to buy building materials and to
upgrade 7,200 squatter housing units.  Over 80,000
families, some 400,000 individuals, would directly benefit
from improved housing, infrastructure and community
facilities with concomitant improvements in their health
and education. It is estimated that 91% of the families
benefitting from this project would have incomes below
three times the regional minimum wage, the measure commonly
used in Brazil to define the relative poverty group. Bank
disbursements would be limited to subprojects with average
unit costs that could be afforded by families within the
target population. Project risks are associated with
undertaking large investments in the sites and services
and low-cost housing sector in Brazil. These risks have
been minimized by selecting as executing intermediaries
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
three low-cost housing companies that have records of
reasonable success and are willing to try new approaches,
in consultation with the Bank, to improve housing condi-
tions for the urban poor.
Estimated Cost:                                ------US$ Million------
Local   Foreign   Total
Part A:
Low-cost Housing
Sao Paulo               23.6        6.6     30.2
Pernambuco              34.5        9.7     44.2
Bahia                    8.2        2.8     11.0
66.3      19.1      85.4
Sites and Services
Sao Paulo               20.4        2.5     22.9
Pernambuco              15.0        3.3     18.3
Bahia                    2.9        1.1      4.0
38.3       6.9      45.2
Loans for Building
Materials
Sao Paulo               18.7        5.9     24.6
Pernambuco               7.1        2.2      9.3
Bahia                    3.9        1.2      5.1
29.7       9.3      39.0
Infrastructure
Sao Paulo                5.0        2.7      7.7
Pernambuco               4.7        2.5      7.2
Bahia                    1.3       0.7       2.0
11.0       5.9     16.9
Squatter Upgrading
Pernambuco             14.0       6.0      20.0
Part B:
Sites and Services
(several states)          12.9       4.8      17.7
Total Parts A and B      172.2      52.0    224.2
Price Contingencies       32.0       9.5      41.5
Total                    204.2      61.5    265.7
Financial Plan:                                         US$ Million
Proposed IBRD Loan                     93.0
Banco Nacional da Habitacao           168.1
State of Pernambuco                     4.6
265.7



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:                  Bank FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84
Annual           0.9      11.1   27.6   28.5   19.4    5.5
Cumulative       0.9     12.0   39.6   68.1   87.5   93.0
Rate of Return:      Internal economic rates of return for sample subprojects
in the three project states have been estimated at 17%
(Sao Paulo), 22% (Pernambuco) and 23% (Bahia).  Sensi-
tivity analysis revealed that even with a 10% increase in
construction costs and a 20% reduction in benefits all
three subprojects are still economically justified.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2197-BR, dated January 3, 1979.



at



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO (BNH)
FOR A SITES AND SERVICES AND LOW-COST HOUSING PROJECT IN BRAZIL
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Banco Nacional da Habitacao (BNH) with the guarantee of the Federative
Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$93.0 million to help finance a sites
and services and low-cost housing project in Brazil. The loan would Wave a
term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 7.00% per annum.
Proceeds of the loan would be channeled to state low-income housing companies
at 0% to 3% per annum on the indexed principal. On-lending terms to final
beneficiaries would vary with the unit cost from 1% to 6% per annum on the
indexed principal and amortization period for the housing companies and the
final beneficiaries would be 25 years following grace periods of up to 36 months.
Proceeds would also be channeled to states and municipalities, in this case the
final beneficiaries, for community facilities and infrastructure at 3% per annum
on indexed principal in Bahia, 4% in Pernambuco and 7% in Sao Paulo. Amortiza-
tion periods would be 18 years following a grace period of up to 36 months.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (1665a-BR),
dated October 13, 1977, was distributed to the Executive Directors on
October 21, 1977. An economic mission visited Brazil in April 1978. A new
economic report to be issued shortly is being prepared. The country data
sheets attached as Annex I to this report reflect the findings and projections
of that mission. The following discussion reflects our latest views on the
Brazilian economy.
Recent Economic Performance
3.        During the late 1960s and early 1970s, Brazil achieved very rapid
economic growth together with much reduced inflation rates and a good balance-
of-payments performance. Net capital inflows fluctuated between I and 2.5% of
GDP. The petroleum crisis of late 1973 and the ensuing world recession cum
inflation produced a sharp deterioration in the balance of payments and infla-
tion accelerated. Brazil's response was more successful than that of most
LDCs, even though, with 80% of its petroleum imported, it was particularly
hard hit.  The growth rates of the economy and of prices were:
General
GDP                Price Index
1973               14.0                   15.1
1974                9.8                   28.7
1975                5.6                   27.7
1976                9.2                   41.3
1977                4.7                   42.7



- 2 -
The maintenance of high rates of growth after 1973 required large amounts of
external financing. Gross capital inflows averaged $9 billion in 1974-77,
compared to $6 billion in 1973. Government policies were to keep imports
approximately constant through a combination of import restrictions and import
substitution; to maintain investment levels; and to continue to stimulate
non-traditional exports.
4.        The major problem facing Brazil after the onset of the petroleum
crisis was the merchandise trade balance, which turned into a large deficit in
1974, as a result of a doubling in the value of imports. Since then, under
the influence of the policies described below, the trade balance gradually
improved, and turned again into a small surplus in 1977, helped in part by the
favorable trend of coffee and soy export prices in 1976 and in the first half
of 1977. In 1978, on the other hand, agricultural exports have been adversely
affected by falling commodity prices and have suffered the impact of a severe
drought in Brazil's most important agricultural states. As a result, primary
product exports are estimated to have fallen by more than $1 billion. This
shortfall has been largely offset by increased manufactured exports which are
rising very rapidly. Total exports, thus, are estimated to have remained at
about the same level as in 1977. The merchandise trade account has shown a
deficit of about US$1 billion because of increasing imports. Borrowing require-
ments will continue to be high because of rising debt service payments.
5.        During 1977, at the same time as the balance of payments was improv-
ing, the Government began to make some headway in the fight against inflation,
by placing more rigid limitations on credit expansion and more effective
restraints on public sector investment. By May 1978, the annual rate of
inflation, which had accelerated sharply in 1976, was reduced to 35%, as
compared to 47% a year earlier. The restrictions on public investment played
a major role in the program to control aggregate demand. The overall size of
the public investment program leveled off in real terms in 1977, after a
decade of strong growth which had, in recent years, come to place a signifi-
cant amount of strain on available resources. In 1977, in addition, ceilings
were placed on the lending programs of the National Economic Development Bank,
the National Housing Bank, and other official credit agencies. These measures
reinforced the impact of increasingly stringent policies in other areas,
including increases in bank reserve requirements and continued curbs on con-
sumer and real estate credit designed to dampen speculative demand and reverse
inflationary expectations. The anti-inflationary program induced a slowdown
in the rate of growth of GDP, from 9.2% in 1976 to 4.7% in 1977. The growth
of manufacturing industry dropped to 2.3%, reflecting a slackening of both
consumer demand and gross fixed investment.
6.        While information on economic trends during 1978 is still fragmentary,
it appears that a recovery of industrial activity has taken place in 1978.
Agricultural output, on the other hand, grew very little because of widespread
crop failures caused by the drought, and the overall rate of growth of the
economy is not believed to have exceeded 5%. The Government has maintained
its anti-inflationary monetary and fiscal policies. Credit policy remained
tight and current public sector investment plans did not call for a significant
increase in investment in real terms, except in the priority sectors of
petroleum, electric power and steel. The overall increase in public investment



- 3 -
has probably not exceeded 5%. However, a number of factors have led to some
intensification of inflationary pressures in 1978. In the first place,
inflation was affected by the drought, as the decline in food production put
pressure on the cost of living. Moreover, on the wage front some industrial
workers in the state of Sao Paulo were able in May-June 1978 to negotiate
increases significantly above the annual inflation adjustment and the slight
real increase authorized by the official guidelines. Finally, as the Govern-
ment has continued to take advantage of favorable conditions in the inter-
national financial markets to borrow in excess of requirements and build up
exchange reserves, there has been a large inflow of external capital into the
economy. Although steps were taken to minimize the domestic impact of this
inflow by sterilizing the funds temporarily at the Central Bank, the pace of
inflation has accelerated to approximately 42% a year.
Poverty Programs
7.        Brazil is a country with great income inequalities and extensive
poverty. While the debate on income distribution goes on, and the statistical
evidence remains inconclusive, in recent years the Brazilian Government has
made serious efforts towards the relief of poverty. During the Administration
of President Geisel social programs have increasingly been designed to meet
the needs of the lower income groups. Although the provision of basic social
services such as health, education and housing is still very inadequate, there
has been significant progress in many areas. The coverage of the social
security program has been expanded in the urban areas and extended to rural
populations in the early 1970s. The urban public health care system now
covers more than 70% of the urban population. In the rural sector, a system
of cash transfer to poorer old persons has been established. By 1978 virtually
all rural persons over 65 years of age received the equivalent of US$30 per
month per household--a very substantial income supplement equal to almost
twice the average per capita expenditure in the rural Northeast and a much
higher proportion for the poorer rural recipients. A similar program covers
the urban population over 70. Literacy of the population aged 10 and over has
increased from 48% in 1950 to 67% in 1970, and between 1970 and 1974 the adult
literacy program (MOBRAL) enrolled some 7 million persons. In the area of
urban housing, the National Housing Bank (BNH) has made over 1.7 million loans
over the period 1964-77. Beginning in 1975, a new sites and services program
(PROFILURB) was established to serve the urban poor and in 1977 this was
complemented by a program to finance the purchase of construction materials.
Increased priority has also been placed on improving urban water supply. The
percentage of urban dwellings connected to general water supply networks rose
from 54% in 1970 to 61% in 1973, and it appears likely to reach at least 70%
by 1980. Available evidence suggests that malnutrition remains one of the
most serious social problems in Brazil. Beginning in 1973, the Government
established a National Nutrition Program (PRONAN) to attack the problem.
Long-Term Prospects
8.        During the past decade, the Brazilian economy grew at an average
rate of 10% a year. The Government has now recognized the need for moderating
growth because of the balance-of-payments constraint and to contain inflation.



- 4 -
In broad terms, a growth rate of 6 to 7% a year is probably needed to absorb
new entrants into the labor force and permit the continued transfer of man-
power from low to high productivity areas and sectors. GDP growth rates in
that range seem feasible through 1980, and growth might accelerate to 8 to 9%
a year in the 1980s. The assumptions underlying this projection include a
significant growth of export volume (at a rate of about 10% a year in 1980-85).
The terms of trade are expected to turn against Brazil sharply in 1978-80, but
should improve again slowly after 1982. Coffee prices are expected to level
off in the early 1980s, but to resume their rise subsequently. Soybean prices
should improve earlier. The growth of manufactured exports volume is projected
to range between 15 and 18% a year until 1983, and taper off gradually there-
after, to 10% in the late 1980s.  Assuming a continuation of present import
substitution policies, a sizeable trade surplus would begin to emerge by 1980
and the current account deficit would narrow in the early 1980s to about $3
billion or 1% of GDP as compared to 4-5% in 1974-76. The rate of growth of
the external debt would slow down considerably in the 1980s. In the late
1980s, the growth of imports is expected to accelerate as import-substitution
projects are completed and the import ratio to GDP can be expected to increase
as a result. At the same time the exceptional momentum of export growth can
be expected to slow down as the absolute magnitude of Brazil's non-traditional
exports becomes large by world standards. As a result, the current account
deficit of the balance of payments is projected to increase somewhat in
nominal terms, although it would still remain below 1% of GDP.
9.        This outlook rests on a number of basic assumptions, including, in
particular, the expectation of a relatively favorable world economic situation
and the continued expansion of market opportunities for manufactured exports.
Although there are indications of increasing protectionism in industrial
countries, Brazilian commercial policy has so far proven extremely flexible.
Brazil can be expected to diversify its export products and markets and revise
its commercial strategy within a wide range of options to overcome emerging
obstacles in international trade. Even under a less favorable set of assump-
tions, however, Brazil can still be expected to sustain a long-term growth
rate of about 6.5% a year, a growth rate which would constitute a reasonably
good performance, and would in all likelihood be adequate to satisfy the
expected demand for employment opportunities.
10.       Brazil's current development strategy was defined in the second
National Development Plan (1975-79). It relies on rapid expansion of both
agriculture and industry. Agriculture grew by an impressive 5% per year over
the past decade, largely by expansion of land under cultivation. The culti-
vated area makes up less than 5% of Brazil's surface, and there is every
indication that rapid agricultural growth will continue to meet both export
and domestic demands, though the development of frontier lands will become
progressively more expensive. In the industrial sector, manufacturing has
been expanding at the average rate of 11% over the past 10 years. In the late
1960s and early 1970s the leading sectors were automobiles, consumer durables
and light equipment, with basic industry lagging behind. Since 1975, however,
Brazil's strategy has been to promote a more balanced pattern of industrial
growth and reduce dependence on imports by emphasizing heavy industry. One



- 5 -
element of this policy involves stepping up the development of Brazil's raw
material resources to supply industrial input needs. Large investment programs
are now being carried out, often with substantial public sector involvement,
in steel, petrochemicals, fertilizers, pulp and paper, non-ferrous metals and
cement. At the same time, Brazil is building up its capability in the
machinery and equipment sectors, moving into the production of heavy and
more sophisticated equipment, and equipment made to order. The recent decision
to build the turbines for the Itaipu dam (one of the largest in the world) in
Brazil reflects the growing capability of the sector. The National Economic
Development Bank (BNDE) is supporting these efforts through its large dredit
program.
11.       Public sector investment plays a key role in Brazilian national
development plans. Defined broadly, public sector investment accounts for
more than half of total fixed investment in the Brazilian economy. Federal
investment has been heavily concentrated in infrastructure and basic industry.
These two areas together account for about 70% of total investment by federal
Government agencies and enterprises. Regional development and social programs
absorb most of the remaining 30%. Until 1975, the rapid expansion of public
investment reflected a heavy emphasis on road construction and regional devel-
opment. The Second National Development Plan added the massive program
of import substitution in basic industrial inputs, and an acceleration in
the pace of social programs. Since 1977, with the restraints placed on
public investment, road and rail transport expansion plans have been cut back
sharply. Investments in electric power, on the other hand, are maintained at
a high level. In basic industries such as steel, non-ferrous metals and
petroleum, investments are being stepped up considerably. The share of
regional development programs in total federal investment has now stabilized
at about 7%. The percentage allocated to social investment is increasing
gradually, reflecting continued expansion of federal investment in housing,
water supply and sewerage, and other urban development programs. State and
municipal governments also devote a substantial proportion of their resources
to health, education, welfare and other public services.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
12.       Although Brazil's resource gap may be expected to turn into a
surplus in the early 1980s - barring major unforeseen developments in the
world economy - and its balance-of-payments current account deficit is
expected to be reduced by half in 1980 as compared to the levels reached
in 1974-1976, external capital requirements will remain high in 1979-84
because of heavy debt service payments. The gross capital inflow needed
during 1979-84 is projected at US$10.7 billion annually, compared with a
US$8.3 billion average medium- and long-term capital inflow (including net
direct foreign investment) in 1974-77. Of this, gross disbursements of
suppliers' credits are expected to average US$1.6 billion a year, bond issues
are projected to continue at the current annual rate of US$1 billion and
the gross inflow of financial credits needed should average US$5.2 billion a
year over the 1979-84 period, or about the same as in 1974-77. This level of
borrowing would represent mostly the roll-over of existing credits. In
contrast to the period 1974-77, when financial credits supplied a net inflow
of US$3.8 billion a year, the net contribution from this source is expected to



-6-
drop to less than US$1 billion a year, on average, in 1979-84. The remainder
would be made up of direct private investments and bilateral and multilateral
credits.
13.       On December 31, 1977, Brazil's public and publicly guaranteed
medium- and long-term external debt amounted to $19.3 billion. Financial
credits make up a little more than half of this amount. Total external debt
(both public and private) registered by the Central Bank at the end of 1977
was $32.0 billion. Of this total, $21.5 billion, or about two-thirds, was in
the form of financial credits. During 1977, the share of financial credits in
total debt outstanding declined slightly, as a result of an increase in net
disbursements by multilateral agencies and bilateral lenders, and a significant
rise in bond issues. The share of public and publicly guaranteed debt in
total external debt has continued to increase, largely reflecting the growing
needs of public sector entities for investment capital. Reflecting this
change in the composition of the total debt, the public debt service ratio is
expected to rise from about 20% in 1977 to 31% in 1978. The net debt service
ratio (debt service less interest earned on reserves) on the total external
debt, which reached 49% of exports of goods and non-factor services in 1977,
is also expected to increase to about 55% in 1978. This ratio will be high in
1978, because of the exceptional factors depressing Brazilian exports in that
year, but can be expected to improve steadily beginning in 1979 and fall
gradually to about 28% in 1985. The public debt service ratio can also be
expected to decline from its 1978 peak, as a result of the growth of exports
and the improvement of the debt profile.
14.       During 1974-77 Brazil has been able to finance a cumulative
current account deficit of nearly $25 billion, while increasing reserves by
more than $1 billion and improving the terms at which it obtains credit in the
world financial markets. With the balance-of-payments deficit on current
account expected to continue to improve in the early eighties, and with
further improvement in the terms of new borrowing, the rate of growth of debt
service payments should slow to an average of about 5% a year in 1980-85, as
compared to more than 25% a year during the period 1974-77. In sum, Brazil
may be expected to remain fully creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
15.       By October 31, 1978, the Bank had made 82 loans to Brazil, amounting
to US$3,887.1 million, of which 40 were not yet fully disbursed. During
FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per year, reaching US$248
million in FY75, US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77 and US$252
million in FY78. The decline in disbursements in FY76 was due primarily to
the reduced level of lending in FY73-74. Disbursements are expected to
increase during the next few years. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans as of October 31, 1978 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.



16.       Over the FY75-77 period, Bank lending to Brazil amounted to between
US$400 and US$500 million per year. In FY75, five loans were made totalling
US$426.5 million; in FY76, ten loans totalling US$498 million; and in FY77
seven loans totalling US$425 million. In FY78, nine loans totalling US$705
million were made. Work is advanced on the preparation of an industrial
pollution control project in Sao Paulo; an aluminum project; a second irriga-
tion project in the lower Sao Francisco river valley; a power distribution
project in southern Brazil; two rural development projects in the northeast;
a medium-sized cities development project and a water supply and sewerage
project in the northeast. We expect to propose loans for these projects in
the near future.
17.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1977, amounting to nearly US$19.3 billion, the Bank held about 8.0%.
The Bank's share of the service on this debt was about 7.0%. When Brazil's
total (public and private) external debt is considered, the Bank's share in
the total outstanding at the end of 1977 was 4.8%, and its share in Brazil's
external debt service was about 2.9%. By 1980, the ratios of the Bank's share
in total outstanding debt and in total debt service are expected to rise to
6.2% and 3.3%, respectively.
18.       As of October 31, 1978, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled US$395.2
million, of which US$265.4 million had been cancelled, repaid or sold. Of the
balance of US$129.8 million, US$98.7 million represent loans and US$31.1
million equity.  A summary of IFC's investments as of October 31, 1978 is
given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
19.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Government
achieve a number of important development objectives which are interdependent
and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is to help
intensify the efforts of the Government to identify and develop projects that
will increase productivity and income of the lowest income segments of the
population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups, and to
improve their living conditions. The loans for nutrition research and develop-
ment, vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural extension and
polder construction in the Lower Sao Francisco as well as for integrated rural
development in the States of Rio Grande do Norte, Minas Gerais, Ceara, Paraiba
and Bahia were all designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas.
Additional projects designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas are in
preparation, including a rural education project, several integrated rural
development projects in the Northeast and a second irrigation project in the
lower Sao Francisco river valley. The loans for water supply and sewerage in
the State of Minas Gerais and in Greater Sao Paulo and for the first urban
transport project are assisting to improve the living conditions of the urban
population, particularly of the urban poor. Several projects to reach
low-income groups in urban areas are in preparation: a medium-sized cities
development project, a water supply and sewerage project for northeastern
Brazil, and a second urban transport project. The proposed project would
better the standard of living of the urban poor in the States of Pernambuco
and Bahia and in the city of Sao Paulo through the construction of sites and
services and low-cost housing.



- 8 -
20.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control, and help
maximize public savings and ensure that they are used economically through
rational selection of investment projects. This institution-building objective
has been important in Bank assistance, for example, in the transportation
sector where there has been emphasis on the rational selection of investments,
the strengthening of railway operations, and the improvement of railways'
financial performance and in the power sector as well.  The proposed project
would assist three low-income housing companies to improve their project
planning and execution capabilities. We expect that the experience gained
from structuring the proposed project will be instrumental for the development
of similar projects in other areas of Brazil.
21.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic
policy. Lending for the electric power sector supports this objective, since
it is based primarily on hydroelectric energy, and its development lessens the
need for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer and petrochemicals
projects is assisting Brazil to substitute imports with large-scale efficient
domestic production and aid its balance-of-payments position. Bank lending
for agro-industries in the Center and South of Brazil is also supporting this
objective and much of the Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector --
railways, ports and highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth and
economical flow of exports. Support of the steel expansion program is helping
Brazil to expand domestic output of a traditional import commodity which can
be produced efficiently in Brazil due to the country's ample supply of high-
grade iron ore and the scale of its internal markets. A similar objective
would be achieved through the aluminum project being prepared.
22.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue to need for some years in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded
by the international financial community as an important sign of confidence in
Brazil and encourages others to continue their own programs there. In some
sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation is
helping Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on more
favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and private financial insti-
tutions than may have otherwise been provided. Eight co-financing operations
for more than US$275 million, have been concluded since 1976 with private
financial institutions and several others are in preparation.



PART III - THE URBAN HOUSING SECTOR
Urbanization and Urban Poverty
23.       Brazil's urbanization over the last 30 years has been characterized
by rapid growth, large absolute size of urban population and geographical
imbalance. Between 1950 and 1970, the urban population (according to the
generally accepted definition) grew at an annual rate of above 5.5%, rising
from 13.0 million to 37.8 million (52 million according to the Brazilian
definition) 1/. The current rate of growth is estimated at 4.4% p.a. and is
expected to slow down to 4% during the 1980-1990 period. Nevertheless,
the urban population is likely to reach 85 million by 1990.
24.       There are nine metropolitan areas with populations close to, or
over, one million inhabitants in Brazil: Porto Alegre and Curitiba in the
south; Sao Paulo and Rio de Jarieiro in the southeast; Belo Horizonte in the
center west; Salvador, Recife, Fortaleza in the northeast; and Belem in the
north. Traditionally the urban population has been concentrated along the
coastal areas, particularly in the southeast. During the 1950-1970 period,
the rates of urban growth were highest in the south and in the center west.
as a result of the expansion of Belo Horizonte and the creation of Brasilia.
This, however, was not enough to overcome the large imbalance between the
southeast and other regions.
25.       Brazilian agencies in the urban sector define the urban poverty
group as families with monthly incomes of up to three times the regional
minimum wage (to account for regional differences in the cost of living).
This definition is close to the Bank's definition of relative poverty level of
one third of per capita personal income, adjusted for differences in the cost
of living between urban and rural areas or about US$465 equivalent per capita
in 1977. Since all income statistics in Brazil are kept in terms of multiples
of the regional minimum wage, for operational purposes, we have set the
relative poverty line at three times the regional minimum wage. According
to this definition, the percentage of families living in urban poverty ranged
from 41% in Sao Paulo to 77% in Recife at the time of the last comprehensive
national census in 1970.
Urban Housing and Services
26.       The rapid growth of the urban population has created a huge demand
for housing and urban services. Between 1964 and 1977, the number of urban
households increased by 6,740,000 or about 480,000 annually.  During the
same period, the number of housing units financed through the formal housing
finance system totalled 1,740,000 or about 125,000 units per year. Thus, over
75% of the housing needs have had to be accommodated outside the formal
housing system. This has led to proliferation of squatter settlements,
illegal subdivisions and widespread use of precarious structures. In 1970,
1/   While the generally accepted definition of urban population includes
people living in cities of at least 20,000 inhabitants, the Brazilian
definition also includes people living in communities of smaller size
that are considered urban on the basis of their administrative status.



- 10 -
20% of urban housing structures in Brazil was estimated to be substandard,
i.e., overcrowded, built from non-durable materials or lacking elementary
services, such as water, sanitation and electricity. Since then, the contin-
uing growth of the urban population has contributed to the further aggravation
of the housing problem.
27.       Many of the urban poor are recent migrants who squat on the periphery
of metropolitan areas, or in central neighborhoods in illegal and precarious
settlements. Furthermore, the demand-supply gap has consistently driven up
the price of land, infrastructure provision, and construction materials
making it increasingly difficult for the low-income population to participate
in the shelter market.
Housing Conditions in Recife, Salvador and Sao Paulo
28'       The bulk of the shelter financed under the project would be in
the metropolitan areas of Recife, Salvador and Sao Paulo. These three areas
contained close to 20% of the urban population of Brazil in 1970, over
11 million persons, of which an estimated 4.7 million were in the poverty
group.
29.       The housing deficit in the Recife metropolitan area is estimated to
be 122,000 units. Of these, approximately 67,000 units are needed in the city
of Recife, and the rest in surrounding municipalities. Most of the population
with deficient housing, estimated at 63% of the total metropolitan population,
live in illegal settlements on steep hillsides or swampy land. These sites are
subject to torrential floods, landslides and offer conditions propitious for
the rapid transmission of contagious diseases.
30.       In Greater Salvador, 137,000 housing units could be classified
as substandard dwellings, 27% of the city's population lack access to piped
water and 90% access to sewerage. About 20,000 families live under the most
precarious conditions in the constantly flooded area of Alagados. The situa-
tion is likely to get worse in the coming years as the metropolitan population
continues to grow. It is estimated that by 1985 the deficit would reach
250,000 units.
31.       In Sao Paulo, close to 500,000 housing units are classified as sub-
standard; they shelter 2.9 million people or about 30% of the 1976 metropolitan
population. The major housing problem of Sao Paulo is the sprawl of unserviced,
often illegal, settlements that have sprung up around the city to accommodate
the 5.6% average annual population growth experienced over the last 15 years.
The combination of a baseline deficit of 500,000 units and a population growth
rate approaching 5%, which requires between 80,000 and 100,000 additional
housing units a year, indicates the magnitude of the problem.
Housing Policy, Institutions and Financing
32.       In 1964, the federal government started a very large effort to
improve housing conditions in Brazil. At that time, it established the Housing
Finance System (Sistema Financeiro da Habitacao-SFH) and the National Housing
Bank (Banco Nacional da Habitacao-BNH). By the time the National Commission



- 11 -
on Urban Policy and the National Fund for Urban Development were created in
1975, BNH and its related agencies had already established strong policy
guidelines and working procedures and controlled about 70% of public invest-
ment resources in the urban sector. BNH had become and is expected to remain
the key institution in the housing sector. It is the largest government
banking institution in Brazil dedicated to social development. One of its
tasks is to guide, regulate and control the Housing Finance System comprising
the local executing agencies and the Brazilian savings and loan system which
is the fourth largest such system in the world. BNH also finances urban
infrastructure, in particular water supply and sewerage.
33.       BNH is a financially strong institution whose total assets equalled
US$11.6 billion equivalent in 1977. Including US$14.5 billion through the
savings and loan system BNH directs the use of US$26 billion. The BNH-financed
investments in 1977 totalled US$2.4 billion representing 1.4% of GDP or 6.5%
of the Gross Capital Formation of the country. About 70% of the BNH invest-
ments are in the housing sector with the balance in sanitation and urban
development. Since 1964, over 1 million families have bought housing units
financed by BNH. Low-income housing that could be afforded by families with
monthly incomes of up to five times the minimum wage, averaged under 20% of
BNH commitments during the 1964-1976 period. As a result of progressive
p,olicy changes, investments in low-income housing over 1978-1980 would increase
to about 26%.
34.       BNH promotes the social objectives of the SFH through a complex
series of cross-subsidization schemes: BNH's low-income housing programs are
subsidized by its higher-income programs (it charges interest at 0% to 3% p.a.
on the indexed principal of loans for the former; 3% to 10% p.a. for the
latter); more prosperous southern states pay higher interest rates (8% p.a.)
than northeastern states (3% p.a.); and low-income housing companies pay lower
interest rates for urbanized lots than for finished houses.
35.       In order to encourage house acquisition, the Government authorized,
starting in 1971, a deduction of interest payments from the taxable income of
SFH beneficiaries. However, this system did not reach families who did not
pay income taxes--a majority of the potential beneficiaries of BNH low-income
programs. In order to correct this distortion, the government introduced in
1974 a fiscal incentive to beneficiaries of SFH. This is a rebate equal, on
the average, to 12% of the beneficiary's actual loan repayments in the previous
fiscal year subject to a minimum of about US$50 and a maximum of US$300,
respectively, and credited against the current year payments. BNH and COHAB
off icials believe that the fiscal benefit has had a very positive impact
on payments by the beneficiaries and has improved the cash position of COHABs.
36.       By its statutes, BNH is prevented from executing and managing the
operations it finances. It has therefore taken steps to encourage the creation
of viable intermediaries at the local level to execute and manage housing and
urban development operations. For low-income housing, its intermediaries are
low-income housing companies (Companhias de Habitacao Popular--COHABs) owned
by states and municipalities. There are now 34 COHABs in operation.



- 12 -
Low-Income Housing Program - PLANHAP
37.       In 1973, BNH established a comprehensive planning framework for its
low-income housing operations through the National Low-Income Housing Program
(Plano Nacional de Habitacao Popular - PLANHAP). PLANHAP operations involve
(a) BNE's Directorate of Social Operations (COS), (b) COHABs, and (c) state
and municipal governments. COS is responsible for all low-income housing
operations of BNH. defining the rules and regulations of PLANHAP, approving
COHABs' subprojects and providing financing. COHABs are responsible for the
preparation and execution of subprojects, selection of final beneficiaries and
sale of houses and lots to them.  States and municipalities, are responsible
for the financing and execution of infrastructure and community facilities and
often facilitate land acquisition for low-income housing. Thus, support from
local governments is essential to the success of the program.
38.       The original goal of PLANHAP was to eliminate within ten years the
housing deficit for families with monthly incomes of up to three times the
minimum wage. This deficit was estimated at two million housing units.
PLANHAP I, as the first program was called, had a disappointing early perfor-
mance, mainly as a result of the difficulties encountered by the COHABs and
the states to fulfill their financial obligations and the rapid increase in
land and construction costs, which grew more rapidly than the minimum wage.
As a result, the target population was unable to afford conventional housing.
To correct these problems, BNH introduced a series of modifications in PLANHAP
I and established a new planning framework for its low-income housing activi-
ties through PLANHAP II. The goal of PLANHAP II is to (a) expand housing
production as fast as supply capacity permits; and (b) develop a wider range
of shelter alternatives. The target population of PLANHAP II was expanded to
include families with monthly incomes of up to five times the minimum wage.
PLANHAP II operates through a series of subprograms and lines of credit. The
main subprograms are: (a) land acquisition; (b) construction and acquisition
of finished houses including embryo houses, detached houses, semi-finished and
finished apartments or a combination of these; (c) production and acquisition
of sites and services (Programa de Financiamento do Lotes Urbanizados -
PROFILURB); and (d) construction, completion, enlargement, or improvement of
individual houses (FICAM). Loans under these subprograms are made to COHABs
and are refinanced by BNH when COHABs sell the units to the final beneficiaries.
Only shelter units costing up to about US$7,375 equivalent are eligible for
BNH financing under PLANHAP.
39.       In addition, BNH finances the provision of infrastructure and
community facilities through three lines of credit: (a) FIEGE--for roads
and drainage; (b) FISIP--for power, gas, water and telephones; and (c) FIEP--
for health care, education, manpower training, and other public services.
Loans under these lines of credit are made directly to the state and municipal
governments.
Performance under PLANHAP
40.       Under PLANHAP I, BNH approved loans to COHABS for 15,000 and 16,000
housing units in 1973 and 1974 respectively. Since BNH started PLANHAP II in
1975, the number of units financed has expanded significantly. At the end of
1977, COHABs had completed 265,300 units; had 131,000 units under construction
and 102,400 units in final design or tendering stages.



- 13 -
41.       In spite of this impressive performance, most housing projects
in PLANHAP II were affordable only to families in the three to five times the
minimum wage range because of the high cost of land and construction and the
preference of COHABs and local governments to construct finished housing. The
sites and services program (PROFILURB) was established in 1975 to counter the
tendency to price finished housing out of the reach of families in the one to
three times the minimum wage range. After an initial slow start caused
largely by the reluctance of COHABs and local governments to support the
program, it is now progressing significantly. Sixteen thousand units were
approved by 1977 which is two times the number of units approved durinfg
the previous yea.
42.       In addition to the initial reluctance of the COHABs and local govern-
ments, lack of BNH financing for individual house improvement and building
materials also adversely affected PROFILURB's performance and excluded many
low-income dwellers. To remedy this situation BNH created a new program for
individual house improvement and construction (FICAM) which may also be used
for tenure regularization purposes. Since its inception in 1977, BNH has
approved financing for 5,000 units under this program. It is expected that
this program will become increasingly important to meet the needs of the
lowest-income segments of the population.
43.       While PLANHAP performance compares favorably with housing programs
of other countries at a similar level of development, its major shortcoming
has been its inability t. effact-vely reach the lower strata of its target
population--families with monthly incomes of up to three times the minimum
wage. The proposed project is designed to assist BNH to reach this segment of
the target population which constitutes the urban poverty group. Housing
conditions of the urban poor will be improved; squatter upgrading will be
promoted; reduction of design standards, particulary for infrastructure, and
of housing construction costs will be sought; COHAB's financial and physical
planning procedures will be improved; and the terms and conditions of PLANiAP
lines of credit will be monitored to ensure that they encourage low-cost
solutions while providing adequate remuneration to the COHABs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background
44.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report of a Sites and Services
and Low-Cost Housing Project" (No. 2197-BR dated January 3, 1979) is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. The dialogue started with
BNH, in 1975, on possible Bank financing of BNH's sites and services program.
It culminated in BNH requesting the Bank, early in 1977, to consider for possible
financing a project including sites and services, semi-finished and finished
housing. Families within the relative poverty group would be able to afford the
average cost of the shelter units included under each subproject. BNH subse-
quently prepared a detailed report reviewing the PLANHAP program, its past per-
formance and future prospects, and proposed a housing project in the States of
Bahia and Pernambuco and in the city of Sao Paulo for Bank financing. The project



- 14 -
was appraised by a Bank mission which visited Brazil in mid-1978. Negotiations
with the Borrower, Guarantor, COHABs and related local governments were held
in Washington, D.C. from November 13 to 27, 1978. BNH was represented by
Messrs. Jose Maria Aragao and Fabio Alvares. A supplemental project data
sheet, including a timetable of key events and a summary of special conditions
is presented in Annex III.
Project Objectives
45.       The principal objectives of the proposed project are:  (a)  to
promote sites and services, low-cost housing and building materials credit
subprojects support a pilot squatter upgrading effort; and encourage the use
of lower housing and infrastructure design standards; (b) to contribute to the
institutional development of the selected COHABs and strengthening of their
overall delivery capacity, in particular, development of on-site assistance to
the beneficiaries of sites and services and building materials loans; and
(c) to improve financial and physical planning and closer coordination among
agencies in charge of providing infrastructure and community facilities.
46.       The proposed project would include the construction of subprojects
offering a balanced social mix of beneficiaries. It would focus on the devel-
opment of sites and services and a credit program for the acquisition of
building materials. However, it would also include low-cost housing units,
ranging from embryo houses to one- to three-bedroom houses. In this way, it
would create opportunities for social integration and cross-subsidization in
favor of the lowest income groups within each subproject.
47.       To facilitate the achievement of the institution-building objectives
of the project, the bulk of the subprojects would be located in the city of
Sao Paulo in the south and in the States of Pernambuco and Bahia in the
northeast. The three project areas provide a good cross-section of urban
shelter problems in Brazil and the three respective COHABs have reasonable
records of success in building traditional low-cost housing and are willing to
try new approaches. Together, they accounted for 33% of PLANHAP housing units
approved by BNH in 1977 and 32% of estimated PLANHAP disbursements. The
project would seek to demonstrate, using the three COHABs, the feasibility,
replicability and public acceptance of large-scale sites and services and
squatter upgrading operations. The experience derived from it could then be
applied to BNH's low-income housing program across Brazil.
Project Description
48.       The project would consist of sites and services and low-cost housing
subprojects and credit programs for the acquisition of building materials
included under the 1979-1981 PLANHAP program for the COHABs of the states of
Bahia and Pernambuco and the municipality of Sao Paulo, community facilities
and infrastructure for selected subprojects, and an experimental squatter
upgrading operation in Recife. In addition, it would include a limited number
of sites and services subprojects to be carried out by COHABs in other states.
The project would be complemented by a comprehensive technical assistance
program. Bank financing would be limited to subprojects with average cost of
housing units that can be afforded by families with monthly incomes of up to
three times the regional minimum wage. Criteria for subproject approval are
discussed in para. 62.



- 15 -
49.       On the basis of the analysis of the investment programs of the
three beneficiary COHABs and of their execution capabilities the proposed
project would include:
(a) about 31,800 urbanized lots under the PROFILURB program, including
basic urbanized lots, hydraulic wall lots 1/ and sanitary unit lots;
(b) about 23,800 home improvement and construction loans under the
FICAM program, which would be provided in connection with, but not
restricted to, the PROFILURB subprojects;
(c) about 19,500 core units, low-cost finished and semi-finished
dwellings;
(d) complementary infrastructure and community facilities provided in
connection with selected sites and services and low-cost housing
subprojects;
(e)  experimental squatter upgrading in Pernambuco.
50.       The project would also include selected sites and services (PROFILURB)
subprojects (up to a total of about 10,000 units) in other states. Further-
more, the project would include a program of technical assistance financed by
BNH which would expand and complement ongoing BNH programs. The program would
focus on the following priority areas: COHABs operational and financial
management, reporting and incentives; design efficiency; lowering of infra-
structure standards and construction costs; and squatter upgrading. The
program would also include monitoring and evaluation of COHABs subprojects
(Annex to Schedule 2 to the draft Loan Agreement).
51.       The states of Bahia and Pernambuco and the municipality of Sao Paulo
would provide the community facilities and infrastructure required for the
subprojects (Section 6.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). In accordance with
BNH's regulations, financing of these investments through PLANHAP lines of
credit would be limited to special cases when difficulties in obtaining
financing from other sources might lead to delays in the execution and sales
of subprojects. It is estimated that 10% of the loan amount would be devoted
towards the financing of community facilities and infrastructure.
52.       The experimental squatter upgrading program in Pernambuco merits
special mention since it would be one of the first projects of its kind in
Brazil. It would include the legalization of tenure, the provision of basic
infrastructure (drainage, water, sanitation, roads and electricity and
community facilities) and the upgrading of housing conditions for about
7,100 families through partial house improvements, construction of low-cost
dwellings and provision of about 1,200 urbanized lots of which 300 would be
used to relocate families affected by on-site upgrading works. These actions
would be complemented by a series of community development programs, and
technical assistance for the development of the productive activities and
small-scale enterprises funded and implemented by the government of the
State of Pernambuco and its agencies (Section 6.06 of the draft Loan Agreement.
1/   Lots with a wall containing hook-ups for bathroom and kitchen facilities.



- 16 -
Costs of Housing Units
53.       Unit costs for different types of shelter categories financed by
BNH range from US$440 to US$1,620 for sites and services; US$740 to US$2,600
for materials loans; and US$2,600 to about US$7,375 for finished houses.
Differences in unit costs reflect differences in design standards between the
three COHABs and construction costs in their respective areas. It is expected
that the COHABs would progressively reduce their construction costs, through
more efficient layout design, smaller plot sizes and lower infrastructure
standards during project execution. The subproject review system and technical
assistance program have been designed to attain these objecti-ves (Annex Lo
Schedule 2 to the draft Loan Agreement).
The Executing Agencies
54.       The three main intermediaries and executing agencies for the project
would be Companhia Metropolitana de Habitacao Popular de Sao Paulo (COHAB-SP),
Companhia da Habitacao Popular do Estado de Pernambuco (COHAB-PE) and Habitacao
e Urbanizacao da Bahia (URBIS).
55.       COHAB-SP operates in the metropolitan area of Sao Paulo.  Its
performance has improved dramatically over the last years as a result of the
appointment of a dynamic management team in 1975 and the modifications intro-
duced in the low-cost housing programs of BNH. Up to 1975, it had completed
only 3,600 units. But by end 1977, it had completed 9,400 add4tional units and
had 30,500 either under construction or out to tender and 9,000 more awaited
bids. COHAP-SP has developed a community development program for the residents
of its housing complex, a pilot self-help program providing building materials
loans to low-income families and is researching the use of soil cement in
house construction.
56.       COHAP-PE was created by merging two COHABs, one state and the other
municipal. COHAB-PE is an efficient company with a well-organized, competent
and dedicated staff. In the period 1975-1977, it obtained approval from BNH
for 28,000 housing units as compared with 1,200 in the previous two years. In
addition to construction it has put much effort into helping form residents'
associations to encourage self-help. Also, it has established a variety of
training programs oriented largely towards women in their homes. To improve
the design of subprojects, COHAB-PE would conduct an experimental program of
economic analysis of subprojects to help decide on the mix of dwellings for a
given site during project design (Section 5.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       URBIS was established in 1965.  It has not been as effective as the
other two COHABs as a result of an inexperienced middle management team,
excessive centralization of decisions in the President's office and inefficient
deployment of its staff. Production of housing units declined between 1971
to 1974, after a good start between 1967 and 1970. However, URBIS has now
improved its performance and, by the end of 1977, had 7,400 units under
construction, with another 3,600 at tendering stage and 1,453 awaiting BNI
approval. URBIS is also developing building materials credit operations,
has approved financing for 2,122 loans and has another 5,000 in the pipeline.



- 17 -
Under the project, a management diagnosis of URBIS would be carried out
as part of the technical assistance program and the state would undertake
to improve the physical facilities provided to URBIS (Section 6.04 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
58.       Under the project, the three COHABs would improve their financial
planning and budgeting systems by expanding their financial staff and by
preparing annual financial statements for the ensuing three-year period. As
part of a continuing policy dialogue with the Bank, they would inform the Bank
of proposed changes in operating policies that may affect the execution of the
project and allow the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such changes
(Sections 5.06 and 5.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing Plan
59.       Total project cost, including price contingencies, has been estimated
at US$265.7 million at January 1979 prices. The foreign exchange component
amounts to US$61.5 million (23% of project cost) practically all of which is
indirect. Technical assistance, which would be carried out by BNH's staff,
has not been included as part of the cost of the project. Project costs were
determined on the basis of actual average unit costs of subprojects that would
satisfy Bank's criteria. Since actual unit costs of comparable subprojects were
used to estimate the base cost of the project, no provision for physical
contingencies has been made over and above the 10% provision included in these
unit costs. Any increase in the real costs of construction in excess of in-
creases in the minimum wage would require a decrease in the total number of
higher cost units and an increase in the number of lower cost units (para. 64).
BNH's accounting unit was used in calculating the base project cost. Over the
years, the relative value of this unit in relation to the US dollar has remained
approximately constant. Thus, the price contingencies have been calculated in
US dollar terms and are based on Bank projections of worldwide inflation. They
amount to 7*5% in 1979 and 7% p.a. in 1980 and 1981.
60.       Bank financing of 35% or US$93.0 million of total project cost is
proposed for the project. The proposed loan amount would allow the Bank to
make a significant contribution to the cost of a project that would improve
the living conditions of the urban poor and strengthen both federal and local
institutions responsible for the development of the sites and services and
low-income housing sector. The balance of the project funds would be supplied
by BNH. The states of Bahia and Pernambuco and the municipality of Sao Paulo
would finance most of the community facilities and infrastructure required for
the project out of their own budgetary resources or loans under other programs
of BNH. The state government of Pernambuco would finance complementary
facilities and infrastructure for the squatter upgrading subproject in Recife
(Section 6.06 and 6.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Channelling of Funds and On-Lending Terms
60.       Under the project, BNH would make subloans to the COHABs.  Proceeds
of the Bank loan for shelter subprojects would be channelled to COHABs in
cruzeiros on the terms specified in BNH's PLANHAP regulations (Sections
1.02(b) and 3.03(a) of the draft Loan Agreement);  0% to 3% p.a. on the



- 18 -
indexed principal. 1/ Interest rates for subprojects would vary in relation
to the cost of shelter units included. The on-lending terms to the final
beneficiaries would also vary with the unit cost from 1% to 6% on the indexed
principal. The amortization period would be 25 years. The proceeds of the
Bank loan for community facilities and infrastructure would be channelled in
cruzeiros to the states and municipalities responsible for their execution on
standard BNH terms: 3% on indexed principal in Bahia, 4% in Pernambuco, and
8% in Sao Paulo. The amortization period would be 25 years for housing and
18 years for infrastructure and community facilities following the construction
and sales period of up to three years. A change in any of the PLANHAP regula-
tions which materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or
any subproject would be an event of default under the Loan Agreement (Section
7.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). The difference between the rate of
interest paid by BNH to the Bank and those it would charge to the COHABs; and
the repayments of principal due to the Bank but not received from the COHABs
would be met by BNH out of its own resources. Given the strong financial
position of BNR and the fact that its program for low-income housing is small
compared to its medium- and large-sized housing programs, where it makes
substantial profits, BNH should be able to absorb the cost of the project
without difficulty.
Implementation Arrangements
62.       The overall project coordination would be ensured by a special
working group within BNH. BNH would be responsible for subproject appraisal
and approval, technical assistance and channelling of funds to COHABs. Sub-
project preparation up to detailed engineering, would be the responsibility
of the COHABs, which would also be responsible for tendering and direct super-
vision of shelter construction. They would also carry out all complementary
activities such as selection, orientation, and community development assistance,
as well as administration of subloans to final beneficiaries. The financing
and construction of infrastructure and community facilities would be the
responsibility of the States and Municipalities. To facilitate the smooth and
efficient execution of their programs, the three intermediaries would employ
specialized staff to guide and counsel final beneficiaries in self-help building
techniques and to prepare standard plans and building manuals for shelter
construction. They would also establish a system to ensure the regular supply
of building materials and credit to final beneficiaries and adjust their
organizational structure for the execution of sites and services and building
materials credit programs (Section 5.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).
63.       Over the life of the project it is expected that changes in the
implementation capacity of the intermediaries, land availability and shifts
in demand may require periodical revisions of their investment plans. BNH
1/   Principal and interest of BNH's loans are adjusted in accordance with
changes in the national treasury bond index (ORTN index). Inflation in
Brazil in the years 1975-77 was 28%, 41% and 43% respectively and is
expected to average about 40% p.a. during 1978-80. The ORTN index used
in public sector lending increased 24%, 37% and 30% over the same period
and is expected to increase on the average 32% p.a. during 1978-80.



- 19 -
and the COHABs would undertake an annual review of such plans with the
Bank (Section 5.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Subproject Approval Procedures
64.       Subprojects eligible for Bank financing would be selected on the
basis of the following criteria: (a) they should form part of the agreed
1979-1981 investment program; (b) the average unit cost should be such that
it can be afforded by families with monthly incomes of up to three times the
regional minimum wage; (c) subprojects should have efficient design in terms
of location, land use and infrastructure; and (d) subprojects should be
economically viable. The first sites and services and the first housing
subprojects from URBIS, COHAB-PE and COHAB-SP and the first two sites and
services subprojects from COHABs in other states would be first approved by
BNH and then forwarded to the Bank for approval. The supporting documentation
would include the project summary submitted by the COHABs to BNH and BNH's own
report. For subsequent subprojects, BNH would notify the Bank of its approval
and keep the documentation for review. Should the Bank determine that a
subproject had been erroneously approved, it would have the option to cancel
a part of the loan equivalent to the value of the expenditures eligible for
Bank financing under the subproject (Schedule 5 to the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
65.       Procurement of civil works contracts for low-cost housing costing
more than US$2.4 million equivalent and sites and services costing more than
US$1.5 million equivalent under the responsibility of URBIS, COHAB-PE and
COHAB-SP (about 60% of the value of procurement under the project) would be
subject to international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. Local procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank would be
applied to civil works contracts for: (a) low-cost housing costing less than
US$2.4 million and sites and services costing less than US$1.5 million equiv-
alent; (b) infrastructure and community facilities under the responsibility of
States, Municipalities and state-controlled agencies; and (c) sites and
services subprojects outside of Pernambuco, Bahia and Sao Paulo. These
procedures would allow foreign contractors to bid. However, it is expected
that foreign firms would not be interested in participating in the contracts
to be procured under local competition since they would be relatively small in
size and the works would be scattered over several states of Brazil. Overall,
it is expected that most, if not all, of the works under the project would be
contracted to local firms since Brazil's construction industry is well advanced.
Disbursements
66.       Bank disbursements would consist of the reimbursement of 35% of all
BNH disbursements on its subloans for eligible subprojects in accordance with
certificates of expenditures to be submitted by BNH to the Bank. The documenta-
tion in support of such certificates would be available to the Bank for inspection
during the course of project supervision missions. Unallocated funds (amounting
to 15% of the loan) would be used, as approved by the Bank, for subprojects
included in the investment programs of any of the three COHABs, according to
their demonstrated execution capacity. The last disbursement is expected to
occur in the fourth quarter of 1983.



- 20 -
Project Benefits
67.       The beneficiaries of the proposed project would be some 80,000
families (including beneficiaries of the building materials credit program),
about 90% of them with monthly incomes of less than three times the regional
minimum wage. Furthermore, it is estimated that 82% of the project cost will
directly benefit families below the relative poverty level. The construction
activities under the project would generate an estimated 70,000 man-years of
employment. The project would reduce by about 10% the estimated housing
deficit in the project areas.
68.       All sites and services units, building materials loans, embryo
houses in Sao Paulo and about one-half of finished houses in Bahia and
Pernambuco could be afforded by families in the poverty group. The following
table presents, by type of shelter unit, information regarding the expected
number of beneficiaries, average unit cost and percentage of families in the
poverty group that could afford each type of unit.
Urbanized        Lot with       Embryo    Completed
Plot type:                        Lot        Sanitary Core    House        Housing
Services:                      Industrial /1 Industrial    Industrial  Industrial
Access to building material
credit program:                  Yes            Yes            Yes          Yes
Percent of investment going
to poverty group                100%           100%           100%         50% /2
Number of households
benefitted /3                   ----- 41,800 -----           9,300        10,200
Cost to purchaser /4
(US$ per unit)                   959           1,623         3,127   4,071 to 5,531
Monthly payments
(US$ per household)             6.79           10.33         18.00   28.03 to 48.38
Minimum monthly income required
(US$ per household)            52.00           80.00        133.00  155.00 to 251.00
Percentage of families in
poverty group that can
afford each type of unit:
Sao Paulo                    88             n.a.           42            15 /5
Pernambuco                   78              70            25            12 /5
Bahia                        78              72            33            10 /5
/1   Connected to public water supply and power distribution systems.
/2   One-bedroom units in all states and two-bedroom units (in Pernambuco and
to a large extent in Bahia) can be afforded by families with monthly
incomes of up to three times the minimum wage. Three-bedroom units can
be afforded by families with monthly incomes of 3.5 times the minimum
wage in Sao Paulo, 4.1 in Pernambuco and 4.8 in Bahia.
/3   Does not include beneficiaries of building materials credit program.
/4   Costs (January 1979 prices) are based on unit types in Pernambuco where
housing costs are close to average for the project as a whole.
/5   Refers to one-bedroom units only.



- 21 -
69.       The cost of the housing component (90% of the project costs)
would be recovered through the repayment of loans by final beneficiaries.
Costs for infrastructure and community facilities (10% of the project costs)
would be recovered through utility charges and property taxation by local
governments.
Internal Rate of Return
70.       Given the sectoral nature of the project, it was not possible to
carry out an economic evaluation for the project as a whole. However, an
analysis has been done for sample subprojects--one from each of the three
COHABs--which have been or will be submitted to BNH for approval this year.
Costs and benefits of urbanized lot and embryo house consolidation have been
included in the analysis for these three sample subprojects. Imputed market
rents were used as a measure of benefits. Internal rates of return are 17%
for Sao Paulo, 22% for Recife, and 23% for Salvador. Sensitivity tests on
reduction of benefits and increase of costs were also carried out. In all
cases the subprojects have rates of return above 12%.
Project Risks
71.       Implementation of the sites and services program, timely provision
of infrastructure, squatter upgrading, and location of subprojects are the
main areas where project risks appear.
72.       The three COHABs have only limited experience with the sites and
services program. However, the resulting risk of inadequate executing capacity
is considered manageable in view of their previous experience with other low-
cost housing programs and the specific steps they have taken (such as on-site
technical supervision) or would take to ensure adequate funding and staffing
for the execution of the project (Section 5.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).
73.       Timely provision of infrastructure during project construction is
dependent on state agencies. To minimize the risk of delay, the State Govern-
ments of Bahia and Pernambuco and the Municipality of Sao Paulo would undertake
to provide the required infrastructure on time (Section 6.07 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Also, BNH's regulations require the COHABs to obtain firm commit-
ments for the provision of infrastructure for subprojects from the concerned
local agencies before the submission of subprojects to BNH for approval.
74.       The squatter upgrading component in Recife would represent a new
undertaking for COHAB-PE and the metropolitan planning agency. Its success
will require close cooperation between the two agencies and the support of the
State Government. The complex question of tenure regularization will also
require close cooperation between all agencies involved. To ensure the
success of this venture, the State of Pernambuco would coordinate the actions
of the various agencies participating in the subproject (Section 6.06 of the
draft Loan Agreement).



- 22 -
75.       Due to high land prices in the three metropolitan areas, sites on
city outskirts are often the only ones available for COHAB projects. Many
families to be selected for sites are likely to be employed in the city center
and the time and cost of commuting could be a serious problem. To limit this
risk, several measures are proposed. First, the site location will be a
parameter of design efficiency to be used as one of the project selection
criteria. Second, during appraisal, a sample of sites were reviewed and found
to have adequate access to centers of employment. Third, the States of Bahia
and Pernambuco and the Municipality of Sao Paulo would: (a) use their legal
power to facilitate land acquisition by the COHABs; and (b) take into account
the location of COHAB operations in their plans for public transport (Section
3.07 and Schedule 5 to the draft Loan Agreement). The availability of land
for at least the next 18 months was reviewed and found satisfactory.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Banco Nacional da
Habitacao, Habitacao e Urbanizacao da Bahia S.A., Companhia de Habitacao
Popular do Estado de Pernambuco, Companhia Metropolitana de Habitacao de
Sao Paulo, State of Bahia, State of Pernambuco, and Municipality of
Sao Paulo, as well as the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Federative
Republic of Brazil and the Bank and the draft Report of the Committee provided
for in Article II Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the
project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
77.       A special feature of the draft Loan Agreement is the possibility
of declaring it effective for each one of the three COHABs separately (Sections
8.01 and 8.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
79.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
January 10, 1979
Washington, D.C.



-23-                                                 ANNEX I
Pag1
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                     REFERENCE GROUPS (AD.IUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSPND SQ. FM.)                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIAT)    _
TOTAL           8512.C                                                  SAME         SAME     NFXT HlER
AGRICULTURAL    2366.0                                MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  |b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE lb      REGION   _  GROUP Id    GROUP Is.
GNP PER CAPITA (LSf                  320.0       580.0    1390.0           1066.7     1796.4      2839.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PFR CAPITA
(KILOGRAM'S OF C.AL EQUIVALENT)    332.0       474.0     670.0           911.1      1525.0      2176.4
POPUL6TICN AND VITAL TI ATISTICS
TOT2AL. )PUFULATY(N, MID-YEAR
(4TLLIONS)                        69.8        92.8     113.2
URBAN POPULATION iPERCE:T Or TOTAL) 44.5        55.7      61.4             57.9       52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KMO.                       8.0        11.0      13.3             25.6       27.6        55.8
PER sQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     44.0        49.0      55.0             77.6      116.4        83.6
POPJLATIOtN AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 IRS.                         43.0        42.0      41.7            42.0        34.S        40.0
15-64 YRS.                         54.0        55.0      55.1            52.2        56.0        55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.0         3.0       3.2              3.7        5.7         3.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.0         3.0       2.8              2.7        1.6         2.9
U3RBAN                             5.5         5.0       4.4              4.3        3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     40.8        38.4      37.1             35.d       27.0        31.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     11.7         9.9       8.8              9.1        9.9         7.9
GROSS REPRODUCI[LOi RATE             2.b         2.6       2.5              2.6        1.9         1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TNOUSANDS)       ..       111.0     203.6
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOMES)   ..          1.6                       is 15.1    19.3.
FOOD AND NU,RITITNi
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTIOD
PER CAPITA (19;0-100)             87.8       100.0     112.3            102.1      103.8       114.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORTES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  102.0       104.0     105.0            103.9      110.4       113.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          61.0        64.0      62.1            60.3        77.7        89.9
OF  MIlCH ANIMAL AND PULSE      38.0        39.0      33.6             26.7       22.2        48.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       ..          ..        ..              8.7        1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AJ BIRTH (YEARS)    56.0        59.4      61.4             62.6       63.0        60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          180.0       110.0        ..             56.9       38.2        22.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULAT ION)
TOTAr.                              ..        56.3      71.7             60.7       67.7        83.0
URBAN                               ..        77.7      83.2             78.0       83.5       100.0
RURAL                               *-        29.0      52.9            34.9        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        59.9      65.5            61.1        70.3        57.8
URBAN                                         86.1      86.3            80.3        90.7        99.3
RURAL                               ..        26.5      39.0            25.4        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2170.0      1910.0    1650.0 If        1899.3     1310.8       976.9
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      3220.0   2920.0 /f         1220.1      B49.2       676.1
POPU;LATION PER HOSPITAL BED O
TOTAL                            275.0       260.0     260.0           422.3       275.4       325.8
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..           258.2       129.9       2500
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..          2281.6      965.9        770.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        18.0        ..             25.6       18.9        18.7
ROUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUJSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.1         4.8        ..             3.2         3.9
DRBAN                     .                    4.6        ..
RURAL                               ..         5.2        ..
AVERAGE NUrBER OF 'ERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         1.1        .1 If          2.0        0.9
URBAN                               *-         1.0       1.2 /f          2.1        0.8
RURAL                               ..         1.2       1.2 (f          2.7         1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             38.7        47.6      55.1            51.2        59.2
URBAN                               *-        75.6      77.9            77.3        78.0
RURAL                               *-         8.4      12.5            12.8        12.5



-   Page 2
-24-
BRAZIL - SOCIAL lNDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                      REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERA(ES
/a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAWM      NEXT HIGISER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPSIIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb      1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION Lc   CROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  95.0         83.0      90.0             103.5       97.6         104.1
FEMALE                93.0         83.0      90.0             102.9        87.4        120.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                   11.0        27.0       26.0              37.2       47.8          46.7
FEMALE                10.0         27.0      20.0              37.9        42.6         46.0
VDCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 19.0          17.0       47.0 j&           14.7        22.7         18.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             33.0        28.0       22.0            * 32.8       25.4          30.6
SECONDARY                          13.0         13.0       11.0              17.8       24.9          16.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         61.0         66.0         ..             74.9        96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS ?ER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0        25.0       35.0              26.9        32.3         53.4
RADIO RECEJVERS PER TSOUSAND
POPULATION                         66.0         60.0       60.0             173.5      201.9         195.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          18.0        66.0       83.0              69.4       97.7        108.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   54.0         37.0      39.0              72.8        70.9        108.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0            1.9        ..               4.3         4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    22700.0       29400.0   34100.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    17.5        20.4       21.6              21.4        17.4         26.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)      .        52.0        40.4       37.8              37.8        38.4         25.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 14.8         18.3         ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 32.0         31.6      31.5              30.8        33.7         40.1
MALE                                  52.7         50.3      49.5              47.2        50.8         55.8
FFMALE                                11.2         12.8      13.6              13.2        12.6         24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6          1.5        1.4              1.7         1.4         *1.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   27.7 /h       34.9 /h      ..              28.9       20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  54.4 /h       62.2 /h      ..              57.7       47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.5 lh         3.2 lh     ..               3.2         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   11.6 /h        10.0 /h     ..              10.7        13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIHATED ABSOLUTE P.VERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..             251.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..     150.0             200.6       157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     465.0            403.1       448.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..     332.0             258.0       313.1
ESTIMATED POPUUTION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      34.0              24.8        23.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      55.0              65.2        54.5
Not available
BNot applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of -the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicatore depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
sod 1971; and for Most R,centnt FtlnaLe, between 1973 and 1977.
le    Latin Anerica & Caribbean;  /d  Upper Middle Income (51136-2500 per capita. 1976);  le High Income
(over $2500 per capita. 1976);  /f  1972;  [&  Beginning 1973. duration of general education reduced
from 7 to 4 yoars, therefore data my not be comparable to those of earlier years;  Ih  Data refer
to economically active population.
September. 1978



-25-
ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                        'or 1
Notg:  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of tho indicator cod the -ost
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.  DIe to lack of dotv,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil ERporters and indicators of access to wartes sd excrets disposal, housing, income distributio  and poverty ore
siople population-weighted geometric neans without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. k)                                                               Population per hbspital bed - total, urban, and coral - Population  (total,
Total - Iotal surface ares coxprising laud area sod inland waters.                         urban, and rural) divided by theif  respective somber of hospital beds
Asricult.ral - Most recent estimate of agricultural area  seed temporarily                 available in public and private general and specioliood haspieol and co-
or pernanently for crops, pastures, otrket and kitchen gardens or to                    habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
iie fallow.                                                                             at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health cnd m-di-
INP PER CAPITA (00$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                   cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by sane conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);               sietant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which ofer in-patient asommodation and
1960, 1970. and 1977 data.                                                              provide a limited range of =edical facIlities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to cr discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                     Atom hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear asd ges-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                    HOItSING
A-rasze nice of household (persons per household) - total', urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISIICS                                                             A household ronsists of a group of individuals who share liviog quartets
Total populatin., mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if nor available.,                     d  th.eir --''  's    A boarder or lodger soy or may nor ho included ic
average of two end-pear estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                           the household fr  statistical purposes.  Staitiical definitions of h.oso-
L'rbha  population (percent of  totl) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                    hold very.
tioo; different definitio-s  of urban areas may affect comparability                  Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rtoal - I         cAvcoe nun-
of data smong countries,                                                                bar of persons per coon in all, urban, and rural occupIed convcntiol
Population density                                                                         dwellings, respestively.  Dwellings e-clude non-permanent strscturcs and
Per  sq. kh. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                   unoccupied parts.
Of total ursa.                                                                        Access to electricity (percent of dwellings)   total, urban, and rural-
Per sq. ho. agriculture land - Computed an above for agricultural land                   Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as prcentage
only.                                                                                   of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
topulation ago structure (percent) - Children (0-14 yearn), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                     Adjusted enrollment ratios
Popslation growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                   Primary school - tctal, and female - Total sod female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mId-year populations for 1950-60,                       at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-uge
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                   popalations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjosted for
Crude birth rate (per thcusand) - Annual live births per thossand of                      differeot lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edo-
mid-yeur population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                    cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are beluw or
1970 and fie-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                     above the official shchol age.
Crude death rote (Per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                    Secondary school - total, sod female - Compated as above; socondary educa-
year population; ten-ye-e arith-etic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                   tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruc-t.o; pro-
and five-yesr average ending in 1975 for most recant estimate.                          vides general vocational, or teacher training inutruct-no. for pup:ls
Gross reproduction rate - Average nu=ber cf daughters a wo=an will bear                    usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondenoc  courses arc generally
in her normal reprodactive period if she enperiennes p.reset age-                       excluded.
specific fertility rates; asually five-year averagen ending in 1960,                  Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocatissal Institutic is ir.-
1970, and 1975.                                                                         clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate indopyodentLy
Faeily plannisg - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                         or as departments of  secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                 Pupil-reacher ratio - prImat -, and secondary - Total utadents incurled in
planning program.                                                                       primary and secondary levels divided by numbers cf teachers in thi  carte-
family planniog - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                         sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-l4 years) who use birth-control               Adult literac  rat  (pr t) - Litrate adults (abls to read and u-ite) o
delices  to all married  cneS in same age group.                                        a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and crer.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                     CONSPICPTION
IsdAa  of food production per capita (197D=100) - Index number of per                  Passenger cars (per thousand Populaticon  - Passenger cars co-prise -oLr r cars
capita annusl production of all food commodities.                                     seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses a-d rilitroy
Per capita supply of calories (percnt of requirements) - Co=puted from                  vehicles.
energy equivalenr of net iced supplies available in country per capita               Radio receIvers (ee  thoosand  opoplation) - All types of recesets for radi
per day.  A'ailable nupplies  co=prise domestic prodrutiom, imports lens              broadcasts to general psblic per thousand of population; sxcluden u-licensed
expcrts, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,              receivers in countries and in yearn when registration cf radio sets can in
quantities used On food prmcessing, and looses in dintribution.  Re-                  effect; data fur recent yearn mpy not he comparable since mcst countries
quire-ents were estimated by FAO boned on physoologicel needs for nbr-                cbolished lice.ning.
mal activity and health ccnsidering environmentafl teperature, body                  TV receivers (per thiusand populatio) - TV receivern for br-ad-ast to gencra
weigbht, oge and sex dietributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV ce,oidro  In .cu.n-
cent for wasre at household level.,                                                      tris and in yoars wheo registration of TV sets was in sffert.
Per capita su.ply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                  N..espaper circulation (per thosoanp population) - Shown the average cirrula-
capita nrt supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                     tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirem=nts for all countries established by USDA provide for                   cation devoted pri-arily to recording general sees.  It is considcred to
a minimu.  allowace of hI gcams cf total protein pnr day sod 20 grams                   be "daily" if it appears as leaet four tinn  a weal.
of ani=al and pulse protein, of whieh 10 grams should be animal protein.             Cinema annual attendance per copita per year - Basod on the  unuber *'. tickett
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                    sold during the year, including adnissions to drive-ic cinemos  -sd sobile
23 grams of animal protein as an overafe for the world, proposed by                     units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein sopelt from animal and paloe - Protein supply of food              EMPILOYMENT
derived from anImals and pulses in grams per day.                                    Total labor force (thousands) - Econcoically ac-t-o  percon, icludieg urmed
Child (sacs i-h) =ortalit, rota (per thousand) - Annu.l deaths per thous-                  forcns a.d unemplcyod but excluding ho..s.i-r, st udents, eta.  Defiu,i-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                               tions in various countries are cur cno parable.
Pem-1e (percent) - PaFe..1 Iober force as percentage of voidl lobcr force
HEALTH                                                                                   Agriclture (per enrt) - labor frco in farming, forestr,. hunting and fishins
Life expeciancy  at birth (years) - Average number of yearn of life                        as percectago of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                 Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturirg and
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor for_c.
Iufant -ortallit  date (pnr th..o.sd) - Annual deaths of infants under                  Parriioparion rate (percent) - roral, male, and female - Total, nal, and
one year of age per thousand live birhbs.                                                omale labor force us percn_tages of their respective populaticns.
Access to safo water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                   These are ILO's adjusted participa tics rates reflecting a"c-sc
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable acoes- to                     str-c-rr  of the populati-o, u-d loop rime trend.
safe coter supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated bet                    cRoi                       - Ratio of pcpulatics  -rder 15 artd 65 ac ever to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                     tho labcr force in age grtup of 15-64 fera.
and sanitary wells) as percentages 9f their respective populations.
In as  crba. area a public fouctain or utandpost lasted not mnre                   INCOME DTSTRIBfTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                   Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas resor.able accens would                    percent, richet 20 percent, puorost 20 percent, and pcorest 40 pe-c-nt
imply that rho housewife or members of the household do not have to                      of bouseb  e1d-
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                         POVERTf TARGET GROUPS
Accesn to excreta disoosal (percent of  pulation) - total, urban, and                   Estimated absolute poverty iscome level (US5 Per capita) - urban and rutu' -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) nerved by excrete                       Absolste poserty inc--e level is that Mncome level below which a  icci.a
disposal an percentages of their respective populations.   Excreta                       nutritionally adequate diet plas essential nec-fuod roquirer.ucs is -ot
disposal nay include the collection and disposal, with or without                        affordable.
treat=ent, uf human encreta and wante-nater by water-borne systems                    Esti=ated relative poverty income level (USS Ier capita) - occr and coral -
or thn use of pit privies and similar installations.                                     Relative poverty incomo level is that .ncome Iue   uss than ore--hord
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicig                        per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medicaI school at university level.                       Estimated copulotion below p-vesty income ler-i (perne-t  - urbhnsaad rural -
Popalation per nursing person - Population divided by number of                            Percent of population (urban and raral) who ore either ''abnlutr poot" or
proctiring male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                        "relative poor" whichever is greater.
ossiutant nurses.
fcosomic cod Social tata Division
Economic Analysin and Prubectioc DepsrtmeDtt



OHH   000000 '0  HH0: O-"--OOOHIH:.1                H           :0 oz-,oo Ho-On 000
00:                    H  HO -.  HH        -000-0               HOOH.40'H
a:"                           ..                                   o0
HO 0 0  OOOOOHOH to H                                    1               0
H  0  O0.H.%H  H        L H'tO      H'0"1HO
0000  HOHOHO H  CHHHHH   OOHHHHHt,.HHH 0   000000-H                     00'00' OOH.00
H     HHO;    0 HHO                  ""H'                0.1HHHH
OOHH     0H0OH.H   -           - .-o-.4OH.tH H   '4 0.000 0-.  <... '  OOHH
'HO  &OOHOO    OOHHOOOHOO    000
0.00   0:0000    0-.'HH.HH   00000 -o      0 OH            oO  Ot't HHHOOO
H     o,...,  0 00000            H.'tH       HO 0    00. '0.40 0000
0    '0.4   -   -  0  -   H OHO  H   0.000  -
a:    OOH              -.  0.:   .-.      0 HO oo.oooooo
HO   IH    '0    OH.  'H  '0    0.  0  H   HOH    *0
OH   OH 0             '     00.00        '0            'H  -O          000       H
H 0         0      00 H        OH
H                                      H   H               4
0000000 'H              HHHHHHOHH                  HHHO0.OHH.0. 0     H
* - 'H  H000.HHO.   OHOCHO   - . .   'H 'HOHOHH  0
0    H OHOtIHO 0  HHH'HH.0 0 0..JOOHOH    000    H H0'00H0  - 'HHHO    H' OHHOOHHH'H H
HOHOOHO H                  H  H OH   HHHHH         H.OHH0'H.H0H H     HO
OOH.C H  HHHHHH 0               H   OHHOOOOH'HHOH            HOH'HHHHH 0 0      HO
- - 'H  HHHHOHOO    HHOOH   . .   HC.'HOOOHHHHHO           OH
0 00000   00.0   0 OHOOHO   C OHH.O    HHHOH 0000 0          H
H          -           HHHOHHHH            H
OHOHOHHIH                   0HO0HHHHHH            H HHOOHHOHHO       H
00 0H0HHHO00    OOH    HHO'HOHHHHHOH            OHOHO' 0HHHHH      H
000000    HOHHH   - . .   H HOHHH 'H  OH.HO 0
,0  HHHHOOH HHOOHH   'HHH    H HOHOHO   H OHHH         HHOHHHHHHHO
OH 'H  HHOHHHO OoH-oo    H'HH    0 000000   0 OHOH        OOHH'HOH.OHH       I
-- H        . 0           000
- . H  HHHHLOH I HOHHH   . . .   OHOHOHO   H HHO'H    HO
H00   000    H HOHO HHHOHH           HO HHHHOHO'H
Oooo-   - . .   - HOHOHO    OHHH     000000 'H0.OHO
H          H           HHHHHHHH           fl     0
00                                 HHH 'Ho- - - - 0
HHHHO0000000           OO000000HOH
OH   OHO    OHHOOHH   0 HHHO                            Hj
OH      I                           HOC     O     0000000   HOOHO         HHHOHH0OHOH       I
000                                                                          H    H
H0                                               H           0           H.OHHHHO 0 0.      0     0
000                                                                                         'H
-  HH  00.4  'HOHOOHO   0 HOHO         O000000H'H00       00
HHH   . .  H 'HOHOHO   H 0000      0'H.HHOHHOOOO
H 000000   0-000       HOHOHO.o0000         H,
H  H  0   0   H        0000' HOOHO        oi)
H     '                                         HHOHHHO44H00           OOH0HHH'HHH
0     '                      HO    H -   - o o   OHHtOOHO   H H H H 0  - 00 H 0 00.0.00.  'H
H                 HOH              OH    H.    OH'HHH'HH   0 HOHO      0H'HHHOH000H              H
*              -000   000    HH0'0000   -0000
.4    I
000000 0:
000 0 00                     H  H
Hi
0                 HH.HH.H..oOH
OHH ...                      HH00000...0.0 0'    00 HHHHHO00            -
040: H 0
'HHH  0   '0
0'-  -'                                                            0
000001.......              HOHOHO   '  HOt         OH   - '           0
-  H       HH   000    0 000000  0000 H         HHH0 0000
Ho         OH   000    00-0-HO   0 HHHH         OHOHO 00000
HO                                                           .       HI
'HO   OH H    0 0 o0'o0.oo-oo       HHHH 0000 0
OH   OHO    H 000000   H HOHO        0000 0HHH H       to
000 H HH H    00   000    H 00000          00000     0000 0000' H
HHO H HO 0    00   0-    H .o00000  OH'H'H         0H00 0000' H        '0
0000   olo                   00oH.HOHHH               H    -
000 0 HO IH   0.0   000    0'H0HHOHoHHOH             0000 0000
'HO- 0 00 0    00   000    0 000000   0 0000         0000 'HO-H 'H
HI
i;t2     ot:.oo0o0
-        H                 0
H        0                 0



ANNEX I
Page 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(Mi lliro US)
A C T U A L                                                                     P R O J E C T E D
1974              1 975            1976             1 977             1 978              1979              1 980           1985              1 99o
A.  Summary of Balance of Payments
1.    Exports (incl. NFS)                                      8,471             9,376            10,797            12,826            12,772             15,373            17,775          40,115            76,892
2.    Imports (incl. NFS)                                     14,678            14,308            14,440             13,847           14,194             15,749            16,987          35,166            73,094
3.    Resource Balance                                        -6,207            -4,932            -3,643            -1,021            -1,422              - 376               788           4,94)             3,798
4.    Net Factor Service Income                                - 916            -1,770            -2,339            -2,859            -3,440            -3,873             -4,374          -7,068           -10,129
1.  Net Interest Payments                                   - 652            -1.498            -1,809            -2,103            -2,284            -2,412            -2,521          -3,538            -4,604
2.  Direct Investment Income                                - 248             - 235             - 380             - 455             - 493             - 542             - 590          -1,030            -1,775
3.  Other Factor Service Income                             -  16             -  37             - 150             - 301             - 663             - 919            -1,263          -2,500             -3,750
5.    Current Transfers (Net)                                       1                 2                 4                 6                 7                 7                 7               7                  7
6.    Balance on Current Account                              -7,122            -6,700            -5,978            -3,874F           -4,855            -4,242             -3,579          -2,112            -6,324
7.    Net Private Direct Investment                              887               892               962               840               780                770               760             750               750
Medium and Long Tere Loans
a. Traditional Sources-
8.    Disbursements                                             1,956             1,612            2,054             2,553             3,303              3,571             4,005           6,599            10,328
9.    Amortization                                             - 739             - 992            -1,350            -1,701            -1,280             -1,218            -1,518          -3,818            -6,146
10.    Net Disbursements                                         1,217              620               703               852             2,023              2,353             2,487           2,781             4,182
b. Financial Credits
11.    Disbursements                                            5,103             4,524             5,978             5,940             5,671             5,644              6,603           3,574             8,523
12.    Amortization                                            -1'181            -1,193            -1,664            -2,426            -3,526            -4,150             -5,008          -3,907            -4,947
13.    Net Disbursements                                        3.922             3,331             4,314             3,514             2,145             1,494                595           - 333             3,576
14.    Use of IMF Resources                                        -                   7                                          -                 -                                  -
15.    Short-term Capital and Capital n.e.i.                      138               788            -2,256              -                                                         
16.    Reserven (-- Increase)
1. Reserve Accumulation_/                                     958             1,062            -2,255              -699               -93               -375              -263          -1,086            -2,183
2. Dollar Valuation Adju6tme t                                185               176              -252               -16               -                  -
3. Changes in Reserve LevelS!                               1,143             1,238            -2,507              -715                -93              _J75              -263          -1,086            -2,183
17.    Foreign Exchange Reserves                                5,272             4,034             6,541             7,256             7,349              7,724             7,987          11,894            20,160
(End of Period)
B.  Grant and Loan Comnitments
1.    Total M&LT Loans                                         7,179             7,005             9,482             9,637
I1..   IBRD                                                      242               426               498                425
1.2.  IDB                                                        203                167              186               270
1.3.  Governments                                                518               512             1,251             1,184
1.4.  Suppliers                                                1.088             1,376             1,300             1,100
1.5.  Bonds                                                        25              -                 269                718
1.6.  Financial Credits                                        5,103             4,524             5,978             5,940
C.  Memorandum Items
1.    Grant Element of Total Commitments                            2.5               2.5               2.5               2.8
2.    Average Interest (Percent)                                    9.5               9.5               9.4               9.3
3.    Average Maturity (Years)                                      9.0               9 9               8.3               8.9
a/  Includes rdultilateral agencies, bilateral lenders, suppliers' credits and bond issues.
b/  IFS Line 79d.
c/  IFS Line Id.
September 1, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 6
DEBT AND CREDIT1'nRTHINESS
Actual
1974          1975          1976          1977
A. Medium and Long-Term Debt
(Disbursed only)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (end of period)                   17,166        21,171         25,985        32,037
1.  By type of Debt
1,  Financial Credits                                11,211       14.561         1-8.194       21,5?3
2.  Traditional Lendersa/                             5,955        6,610          7,791         10,509
2,  By type of Borrower
1.  Public and Publicly Guaranteed                    8,533       11,461         14,852        19,309
2.  Private                                           8,633        9,71U         11,133        12,7a9
2. Net Debt Service                                          2,572         3,683          4,825         6,230
1.  Total Interest                                        1,370        1,863           2,091         2,462
2, Net Interest                                             652        1,498           1,810         2,103
3. Public Debt Service                                        1,287        1,550          1,982         2,500
B.  Debt Burden
1.  Net Debt Service Ratio h/                                  30.4          39.3           44.7          48.6
2.  Total Net Debt Service Ratio                               33.3           41.8          48.2          52.1
3.  Public Debt Servidc  Ratio                                  15.2          16.5          18.4          19.6
4.  Liquidity Ratio                                             23.0          33.3          43.0          39.2
5.  Net Debt Service/GDP el                                      2.60          3..6                        4.0
6.  Public Debt Service/GDP e/                                   1.3           1.3           1.5            1.6
7.  Total DOD/GDP e/                                            17.0          17.2          15.2          20.5
C.  Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD f/                         10.9           10.9           9.9           9.5
2.  Net Debt Service/Total DOD f/                               20.5          21.5          22.8          24.0
D.  Dependency Ratios for M&LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                    48.1          42.9           55.6          61.3
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                            25.7          14.6          20.3          13.8
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                            53.4          34.0          36.4          22.4
E.  Exposure
1.  IBRD Disb./Gross Total Disb.                                 3.5           4.1           2,            3,G
2.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                           4.9           5.2           5.0            4.8
3.  IBRD Debt Service/Net Debt Service                           3.0           2.5           2.4            2.9
F.  External Debt (Disbursed Only)                                              Outstanding December 31, 1977
Amount                             Percent
I.  IBRD                                                               1,540                               4.8
2.  Other Multilateral                                                   815                               2.5
3.  Governments                                                        2,939                               9.2
4.  Suppliers                                                          3,773                              11.8
5.  Bonds                                                              1,222                               3.8
6.  Financial Credits                                                 21,528                              67.2
7.  Other                                                                219                               0.7
8.  Total MpLT Debt                                                   32,037                             100.0
9.  Total Public M&LT Debt                                            19,309                              60.3
G.  Debt Profile
1.  Net Debt Service 197&45/Total DOD end of 1977                                          199.0
a/ Includes multilateral agencies, bilateral lenders, suppliers' credits, bond issues and M&LT loans n.e.i,
b/ Net Debt Service as percent of exports of goods and NFS,
c/  Including Direct Investment Income in debt service.
d/  Net Debt Service as a percent of exports of goods and NFS plus exchange (at beginning of year)
in excess of 3 months imports.
e/  In constant 1975 prices.
f/  As percent of DOD at beginning of year.
Note:  Debt service ratios have been calculated on the basis of net rather
than gross interest payments in order to take into account interest
earned upon Brazil's international reserves.
September 1, 1978



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of October 31, 1978)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Forty-two loans fully disbursed                                  1,352.1
755   1971  Brazil                             Education            8.4             .0 1/
756   1971  Brazil                             Ports               45.0          13.9
828   1972  Companhia Siderurgica              Industry            64.5            1.2
Paulista
829   1972  Centrais Eletricas de Minas        Power               60.0             .1
Gerais - Sao Simao
853   1972  Brazil                             Land Settlement      6.7            3.8
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -        Power              125.0          45.9
Itumbiara
924   1973  Brazil                             Agro-Industry       54.0          31.3
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao         Power               81.0          34.7
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009   1974  Banco Nacional de Habitaco         Water Supply        36.0            6.1
1067   1974  Brazil                             Education           23.5          20.0
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal           Railways           175.0          37.5
1075   1975  Brazil                             Roads              110.0          48.3
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry               95.0          85.2
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry               60.0          55.7
1153   1975  Brazil                             Agriculture         23.0           17.5
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista         Railways             75.0         41.7
1195   1976  Brazil                             Rural Development  12.0            11.2
1206   1976  Brazil                             Development Bank   85.0            74.2
1207   1976  Brazil                             Feeder Roads        55.0          55.0
1249   1976  Brazil                             Agriculture         40.0           37.5
1256   1976  Petrobras Fertilizantes            Fertilizer          50.0           29.5
1257   1976  Companhia Paranaense de            Power               52.0           38.7
Energia Eletrica - COPEL



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of October 31, 1978)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1300   1976  Eletrobras                      Power                 50.0            42.5
1302   1976  Brazil                          Nutrition             19.0            18.3
1309   1976  Banco Nacional de Habitacao   Water Supply            40.0            34.3
1317   1976  Brazil                          Agro-Industry         83.0            83.0
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                       Power                 82.0            56.8
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development   42.0              34.8
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes         Fertilizer            64.0            60.6
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do           Fertilizer            82.0            64.8
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452   1977  Brazil                          Education             32.0            31.4
1488   1977  Brazil                          Rural Development   17.0              16.6
1525   1978  Banco Nacional de Habitacao   Sewerage               110.0           110.0
1537   1978  Brazil                          Rural Development   24.0              24.0
1538   1978  ELETROBRAS                      Power                130.0           130.0
1557   1978  Brazil                          Roads                114.0           114.0
1562   1978  COPESUL                         Petrochemicals        85.0            85.0
1563   1978  Brazil                          Urban Transport       88.0            88.0
1568   1978  Brazil                          Agric. Extension   100.0             100.0
1589   1978  Brazil                          Rural Development   37.0              37.0
Total                                             3,887.1 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                509.0
Total now outstanding                             3,378.1
Amount sold                           45.8
of which has been repaid            32.3           13.5
Total now held by Bank                            3,364.6
Total undisbursed                                                 1,820.1
/1   Balance less than US$50,000.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



ANNEX II
-31-                                          Page 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of October 31, 1978)
Year                           Obligor                                       Type of Business          Amount in US$ million
Loans    Equity    Total
Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                      Electrical Equipment         2.00       -        2.00
Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                            Pulp and Paper               1.20       -        1.20
D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                            Automotive Parts             0.45       -        0.45
Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Comercio                                      Motor Vehicles               2.45       _        2.45
Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.                 Cement                       1.20       -        1.20
Champion Celulose, S.A.                                     Pulp                         4.00       -        4.00
1968/
Acos Villares, S.A.                                          Steel                       8.00      1.93      9.93
1969         Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.                           Pulp and Paper               3.78      3.41      7.19
1972         Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio
de Pertilizantes                                          Fertilizers                  8.22      3.03    11.25
Petroquimica Uniao, S.A.                                    Petrochemicals               5.50      2.88      8.38
Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercio                     Petrochemicals               5.50      2.88      8.38
Oxiteno, S.A. Industria e Comercio                          Petrochemicals               4.60      1.44      6.04
Industria de Celulose Borregaard, S.A.                      Pulp                         4.90       -        4.90
1975         Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas                       Cement                      29.14      3.20    32.34
1974/1977    Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                 Steel                      76.96      7.50    84.46
Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP                    Capital Market
Development                5.00       -        5.00
1978         Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos                       Nickel Mining and
Minerais - CODEMIN, S.A.                                   Refining                   85.00      8.34    93.34
Industrias Villares, S.A.                                   Elevators and Indus-
trial Equipment            6.00       -       6.00
Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                            Textiles                   31.00       -       31.00
Capuava Carbonos Industrias Ltd.                            Carbon Black                 6.18     1.08      7.26
Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                                      Petrpchemicals             10.00       -       10.00
Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S.A.               Textiles                    6.45      1.00      7.45
Tecanor S.A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste               Textiles                    6.00       -        6.00
FMB S.A. Productos Metalurgicos                             Iron and Aluminum
Castings                  20.00       -      20.00
Mineracao Rio do Norte S.A.                                 Mining                     15.00       -       15.00
Cimetal Siderurgia S.A.                                     Iron and Steel              7.0       3.0      10.0
Total Gross Commitments                                                               355.53    39.69   395.22
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                256.85      8.51   265.36
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                                                      98.68    31.18   129.36
Total Undisbursed                                                                      10.38      6.94    17.32



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
There are now 40 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
755       Education Project:  US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 28, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978. The project
is substantially completed. Final project costs are US$25.2 million
with a cost overrun of US$4.2 million (20%) being met by the Borrower.
Final disbursements of the Bank loan are underway.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. After long
delays, project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Construction
of the railway access Paratinga-Pereque by FEPASA is completed. The
inability of RFFSA to pay its share of the costs for the left bank
rail access was overcome by PORTOBRAS which obtained a loan from
Banco do Brasil for this purpose. Because of insufficient increases
in tariffs to compensate for inflation, Santos port is experiencing
financial difficulties.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:  US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 15, 1979. The Stage II project will be substantially
complete by December 1978 at a total project cost of US$970 million.
This is thirty months behind the appraisal schedule and at a cost of
US$593 million (157%) higher than anticipated at the time of appraisal.
However, the project is still justified. Production reached 1.54
million tons of raw steel equivalent in 1977. Production reached
the project's design capacity of 190,000 tons of raw steel per month
(the annual equivalent of 2.3 million tons) during one peak month in
mid-1978.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:  US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30. 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule, and is expected to be completed by March of
1979. An anticipated 50% cost overrun, which does not affect the
economic justification of the project, is being covered by local and
foreign borrowing. The first four units of the power plant were
commissioned in June of 1978.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:  US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The settlement agency, COLONE, has prepared revised farm development
plans whose credit component, to be financed by public financial
institutions, will be significantly higher than originally estimated,
although still low in comparison to other settlement projects.
Administrative delays in the release of public funds for farm
credit, road construction and COLONE working capital requirements
and difficulties in recruiting project staff delayed the start
of project execution. COLONE continues to be hampered by lack of
assured financing, and this problem is compounded by cost overruns
presently amounting to about 240%.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Construction of the earth-fill dam was delayed by about
nine months due to very heavy rains. However, construction of the
concrete dam and power house is ahead of schedule. FURNAS expects
to complete the power plant in December 1981, about four months
behind schedule. The present cost estimate is about 88% over the
appraisal cost estimate, 13% of which is due to the need for
increased physical quantities due to geological problems. The rest
of the increase is due to a substantial increase in the size of the
transmission works and to an increase in the cost of civil works.
However, the project remains economically justified.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978. Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were
made during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance
with the Loan Agreement. These funds have now been prepaid by
the Government, reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3
million.  Commitments under this loan are almost at a standstill as
a result of competing credit lines at subsidized rates and a general
slow-down in industrial investments. However, disbursements are
expected to improve in 1979, as the Government now plans to restrict
the availability of subsidized credit at the end of 1978. The
Government has indicated it will request a postponement of the
Closing Date.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. A postponement of the Closing Date will be required.



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:  US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15,
1979. Difficulties in subproject preparation, which are now resolved,
caused disbursements to fall behind schedule. The loan is now fully
committed to 41 subprojects of which 10 are under construction and
31 completed. The 10 subprojects under construction are expected to
be completed in early 1979.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17. 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is one year behind schedule mainly because
of delays by the government in providing counterpart financing.
Project implementation units have been established in all eight
project states and these, together with the main project unit,
PREMEN, are working well. The pre-investment studies in the
Northeast, financed under the loan, have been completed and have
yielded useful information for future sector investment planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower has improved, further improvement is
necessary for it to be able to effectively carry out its investment
program. The Government has decided to deregulate most freight
tariffs and is expected beginning in 1979 to make payments to the
railways to meet deficits on uneconomic services which it requires
to remain in operation. These actions should significantly improve
the borrower's financial position.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975: Closing Date: December 31. 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks are
progressing well, and detailed engineering studies for road con-
struction and road rehabilitation are now completed. Implementa-
tion of the road maintenance component is making progress.



-35-
ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date:  April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials and some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program. At the request of the Bank, a thorough review of the
project was made. Substantial changes were made resulting in better
management and control of the project. The project is now progress-
ing satisfactorily in line with the revised cost estimate and
schedule, and remains economically justified.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. The project is about two years behind schedule. The
cold mill has been deleted from the project to reflect changes in
forecast demandu.  The Bank has recently agreed to three additional
changes in the project's scope as follows: construction of a con-
veyor belt system to deliver iron ore to the raw materials yard
(in lieu of a second rail line), an additional reheating furnace for
the hot strip mill, and changes in the port layout. COSIPA is pre-
paring for Bank review a comprehensive report on Stage III including
revised project capital cost, implementation time schedule and
financial projections. Due to a shortfall in the government's
equity contributions, COSIPA is experiencing some financial dif-
ficulties in spite of its improved operations.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979. CODEVASF made only limited progress on construc-
tion for this project during 1977 and 1978 because of heavy rains in
the project area. Physical completion of the project will probably
extend to 1981, and postponement of the closing date will be required.
Current cost estimates show an 80% increase over the appraisal
estimate of US$56.5 million. These increases have resulted from
design changes, rapid increases in the costs of civil works and
equipment, and in the cost of land expropriation. Modifications in
the design of emergency and irrigation works are being studied by
CODEVASF and its consultants with a view to limiting further cost
increases. Project implementation had encountered certain opposi-
tion from the population of the project area, which disagreed with
the principles and procedures for land expropriation, settlement,
future land tenure and the structure of the proposed cooperative
system. The implementing agency CODEVASF has revised the social
strategy to be followed under the project and is improving communi-
cations and relations with the area population.



-36-
ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The Transport
Master Plan Study for Sao Paulo is presently under way and the first
results are expected shortly. The technical assistance program
which is intended to improve FEPASA's operations, marketing and data
processing systems is showing results. FEPASA's financial position
is not satisfactory. The Government recently deregulated most
freight tariffs and is starting to make payments to the railways to
meet deficits on uneconomic services which it requires to remain in
operation. These actions should assist in improving FEPASA's
financial position. However, the need for a significant redimen-
sioning of FEPASA's operation is becoming apparent.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981. Progress is being adversely affected by funding
delays and marketing problems in the principal project crop, peren-
nial cotton. Means of resolving the problem are under discussion.
Implementation of the research and credit components of the project
has been successful. Disbursements are behind the original appraisal
schedule, partially because of funding delays.
1206      Development Banking Project:  US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date:  August 26, 1976; Closing Date:  March 31, 1979.
Project implementation is behind schedule. The major reasons are:
(i) an initial delay in the commitment of funds under this project
because of differences between the relending terms of the agencies
concerned and those required under the Loan Agreement. These
differences are now partly resolved; (ii) a leveling off of the
industry's demand for investment financing; and (iii) resource
constraints of the National Development Bank (BNDE). To accelerate
commitment of the loan, the Bank agreed to amend the Loan Agreement
so as to finance the full foreign exchange cost of subprojects.
However, commitment of the loan is progressing slowly because of
the existence of competing credit lines at subsidized rates and a
general slow-down in investments.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Five sub-loans totalling US$101 million have
been committed with a total Bank contribution of US$23.5 million.
Prospects are good that the full amount of the loan will be com-
mitted by the end of 1978 or in early 1979.



-37-
ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project is progressing well and in spme
areas ahead of schedule. Implementation of the civil works program
is actively in progress at 10 of the 21 research stations included
in the project, and is expected to be accelerated during 1979.
Facilities and research programs at seven experiment stations in the
three priority regions (North, Northeast and Central-West) are
proceeding in accordance with project goals. Staffing is in advance
of project goals, but technical assistance being provided by consul-
tants and the training program are somewhat behind schedule.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project completion is expected to be delayed by about 15 months due
to delays in delivery of equipment to be provided by Brazilian
suppliers. Total project cost has increased to US$321 million,
which is US$49 million over the appraisal estimate of US$272 million.
All the increase is in local currency and with the planned increases
in local loans and equity commitment the project has no financing
gap.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is on schedule and about 60% completed.
Disbursements are behind appraisal forecast, mainly because of delays
in procurement of major subtransmission equipment. The Borrower is
updating its 1976-79 distribution expansion program, and the adjusted
program should bring disbursements closer to the original schedule
by year-end 1978.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1980. Project implementation is about 12 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government definition
regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement is
now progressing satisfactorily.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980.
The INAN project unit is seriously under-staffed which is adversely
affecting the progress of the project. The nutrition delivery
system's field tests are proceeding reasonably well. Disbursements
under the industrial credit components are behind schedule because
of competitive programs at subsidized rates. Measures to deal with
these problems are under study.



-38-
ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18. 1977;
Closing Date:  September 30, 1980.  The loan is now fully committed
to 65 subprojects in cities of less than 5,000 inhabitants, 38
subprojects in cities of between 5,000 and 20,000 inhabitants and
water supply and sewerage subprojects in Greater Belo Horizonte.
Execution of the project is progressing satisfactorily.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.  Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
have not started.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of February
23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981. The project is about 30% complete and about 60% of the
contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed under
the loan have been awarded; the remainder are expected to be awarded
by mid-1979. With the exception of a relatively minor component,
project execution is on schedule. The shortfall (25%) in loan
disbursements, caused by delays in the procurement process, is
expected to be reduced to 10% by mid-1979 and eliminated by the end
of that year.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.  Organization of this project is progressing
satisfactorily after initial delays. The credit component is
expected to gather momentum in the near future. Mainly as a result
of administrative difficulties, participation in this project by
landless producers is significantly lower than originally envisaged,
but concerted efforts by the State Government and the participating
banks have improved this situation recently.  Both the health and
education components have advanced significantly.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1981.
Plant buildings and equipment foundations are under construction,
but some delays have been experienced in procurement of imported
equipment which may delay the project completion date by about nine
months.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
May 31, 1980. The project has been progressing satisfactorily
within the original budget estimate, and the plant start-up will
experience only a minor delay. The reorganization of VALEFERTIL
in December 1977 should improve the efficiency of project execution.
Personnel recruitment and training are underway.



-39-
ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977, Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Construction of training centers and procurement of equipment are
proceeding according to schedule. With one exception (FUNDACENTRO),
the technical assistance program is underway at the training centers.
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The implementation of the project has proceeded
satisfactorily after initial local funding delays. Agricultural
extension and experimentation services, agricultural credit, input
supply, marketing and storage services are making good progress
while the parts of the project relating to land purchase credit,
agricultural mechanization and cooperative societies organization
are progressing at a slower than expected rate.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. The project is proceeding
according to schedule.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30,
1983. The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan of
May 1, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Initial disbursements have been delayed by about
six months due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market; however, it is
not certain that project completion will also be delayed.
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13. 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982. The
project is proceeding according to schedule.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: December 5. 1978; Closing Date: December 31. 1983.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.



-40-
ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project:  Approximately 2 years
(b)  Project prepared by:  BNH and the low-cost housing companies of the
States of Bahia and Pernambuco and of the
Municipality of Sao Paulo
(c) First presentation to the Bank: January 1977
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: May 1978
(e) Completion of Negotiation: November 27, 1978
(f) Planned Deadline for Effectiveness: April, 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) States of Bahia and Pernambuco and Municipality of Sao Paulo
to provide community facilities and infrastructure required
for subprojects (paras. 51 and 60);
(b) State of Pernambuco to undertake community development programs
and provide technical assistazc^ for the development of small-
scale enterprises (para. 52);
(c) BNH to undertake studies to reduce construction costs and lower
infrastructure standards (para. 53);
(d) COHAB-PE to conduct an experimental program of economic analysis
of subprojects to help decide on the mix of dwellings for a given
site (para. 56);
(e) State of Bahia to improve the physical facilities provided to
URBIS to increase its productive efficiency (para. 57);



-41-
ANNEX III
Page 2
(f) COHAB-SP, COHAB-PE and URBIS annually to prepare financial
statements based on their investment program for the ensuing
three-year period for the purpose of financial planning
(para. 58);
(g)  COHAB-SP, COHAB-PE and URBIS to inform the Bank of any proposed
changes in policy that may affect the execution of the project and
allow the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such changes
(para. 58);
(h)  State of Pernambuco to finance infrastructure for the squatter
upgrading subproject in Recife (para. 60);
(i)  BNH to relend proceeds of Bank loan under standard PLANHAP terms
(para. 61);
(j)  COHAB-SP, COHAB-PE and URBIS to strengthen their implementation
capacity to ensure the smooth and efficient execution of sites
and services and building materials loans subprojects
(paras. 62 and 72);
(k)  BNH, COHABs and the Bank to undertake annual review of the
PLANHAP investment plans (para. 63);
(1)  Bank to have the right to cancel from loan account amount
equivalent to the value of expenditures eligible for Bank
financing under subprojects incorrectly approved by BNH
(para. 64);
(m)  State of Pernambuco to assure coordination of the various state
agencies involved in the squatter upgrading subproject (para. 72);
and
(n)  The State of Bahia, the State of Pernambuco and the Municipality
of Sao Paulo to facilitate land acquisition by the COHABs (para. 75).
.



a           v                                                                                                         * 0



I BRD 13744
/            4c~~~~~~~~~~~~~at                                                                                             71~~~~~~~~~~6 30CE,flBER 1978
.747EV fco.ccri )CATED Ar ~~~                       ~~                          ~RAZL                                                                                                                                                                     P
SEVER4~~~~~~~~ 7,109779                                                            ITS7ND SE VI ESGUR1HO
- T0SOA ~         ~                ~               ~                NDLW   OS HUIN   POJC
BailS-sp Areas     N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .7'~~aoPaloAAfrpoitn     re
1    2   a    c                                                                                                                                       -~~                                                                 Sc'EIAAELICAE,'
23- 30                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     23-30 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3'5 
7                                                         OCEAN~~RDM  KOPAL



I



IBRD 13745
707           560-                 450                                                                                    DECEMBER 1978
p     CA~~~'BBFA~~V    00                          SITES ~~~     BRAZIL
7-    ' a >  krw-j'  .Ar ssrS   O                                       SITES AND SERVICES
AND LOW COST HOUSING PROJECT
B R A Z I L                                                     Recife Metropolitan Area.
SO    U    T  H              salvadr                                                  Th Joao Pessoa
BRASILIA
200         A M'RC                     J    20'
I ;, SCO PDUIDO   _/<,                                                                                         -
A3ZA N;I*                                                                  ITAMARACA
de Rebouicre   Igarassu
J Limoe61 \< /</  
Coetes             Mo~~~ronguaps
/ Ad > t / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Paufisia '
Centro    RoDoce
SAC) LOURENCO                        Pism
const tino<?fl  A
f       f,8tas.4    (                             t                     eC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IFEj
N
s \      i f-1Existing Project Sites
* r     '   Future Project Sites
a                                           ,               ,   >---~   \ . ,                        3,1                           Main Access Roads
~'   /<    CABO    /   (      |  |  I   Railroads
' .                    a . Built-up Areas
a  / / $Suap                     d  'i    Reservoirs
(   >                      +     , }           >gS;                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
TWi -np h,s ben  -esd b,the Wotd.ndoth esh,- ol  o,h  cO-eien-
dn~o,osono  h,, nap do not ntpy, , she psn ntth. Wod Oath -d,.s
+0                                                                                       ON /Y.d-  .a i~-  a y/._
J5/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,f,hso, ..n... jo0nen  onsetottsoootnivy,ned,enn



t
4



IBRD 13746
~~~~E55~~~~~~~~~~~~  5O~~~~~~~~~~~~~  4O~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~DECEMBER  1978
7s'   7-'t  '''    -; .sr4vC        * CANDEIAS I                                                                         I                             DCMER>7
CANDEJAS
BR A Z I L                                                                                                             I-I
AM,ER ICA    ,    <--0-- >                                                          FAMACARI
|~~~~~~~ Ryv    .6. )\g                                                                         UBENSCOSTA C'AlI/ l
4-Z                      ,o r r A    ; /E>                                                          BRUEES COSTA-. CIA I / =RUSCO al l
*    E-ishng Project Sltes,
*     Futare Project Sites                                                                     IFITA
Main AcEess Roads
Secondary Access Roods              PROPE\!
Radiroads
B8ilr-up Areas                                            IA                                                                 LAURO DE
lil   /          rih                                \'o             ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~FREITAS     
L    1  ~~~~ ~~2 S3                                         ABEA  ACJZIA   
KIlOMETERS                                     CAAZEIRAl4    OCAJAZEEA                                           \
Vj \ ~~~~~~CAJAZEIRA\///
@ / \^CAST~~~~ELO -RANCO i  
Tc,005 9  SANF CS \  BAY                                            SETE DE ABSRIL
l Q / CAA LA V 1. PROCILOSTHUSIN   PROJECO
CAY/L' ISVdoBULA  rL   Mt                                                      t   A
/   AC E, E, F 1  /       /                                          ~~~~~~BRAZIL
iX /; 9 /' ~~~~~~SITES AND SERVICES
g   \  X  J               >g                        ~~AND LOW COST HOUSING PROJECT
; _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Salvodor Metropoliiton Areo



