Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
4A // ;?i f / -P/
Report No. 7754-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
MANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
IMAV 4, 1989
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the perfonmance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December. 1988)
Currency Unit            -     Philippine Pesos (P)
US$1.00                  =     P 21.4
P 1,000                  -     US$46.73
P 1                      =     100 Centavos (Ctvs.)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
kW          =     Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW          =      Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kWh         =      Kilowatt-hours (1,000 watts)
MWh         =      Megawatt hour (1,000 kilowatt-hours)
MkWh               Million kilowatt-hours
GWh                Gigawatt-hours (million kilowatt-hours)
TWh         =      Terrawatt-hours (billion kilowatt-hours)
kV                 Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
m           e      meter (3.2808 foot)
km          =      Kilometer (0.6214 mile)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APT               Asset Privatization Trust
APEX        =      Apex Development Finance Program
BOT         =     Build-Operate-Transfer Program
DBP         =     Development Bank of the Philippines
ECC         e     Energy Coordination Council
ERB         =     Energy Regulatory Board
ERL         =      Economic Recovery Loan (Loan 2787-PH)
ERR         =      Economic Rate of Return
ICB         =     International Competitive Bidding
IGLF        =     Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
IRR         =      Internal Rate of Return
UfW         =     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LRMC        =      Long Run Marginal Cost
MERALCO     =      Manila Electric Company
MIS         =      Management Information System
NEA         =      National Electrification Administration
NPC         =      National Power Corporation
NPV         =      Net Present Value
OEA         =     Office of Energy Affairs
OECF        =      Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PCIB        =     Philippine Commercial and Industrial Bank
PNOC        =     Philippine National Oil Company
REC         =      Rural Electric Cooperative
SCADA       =      Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
SOEs        =     Statements of Expenditures
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
i I-
PHILIPPINES
itANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP)
Guarantor:             Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiary:           Manila Electric Company (MERALCO)
Amount:                US$65.5 million
Lending Terms:         Repayable over 20 years, including five years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:       DBP would relend the funds to MERALCO under terms thut
include a twenty year maturity and a five year grace
period, and a fixed spread not to exceed 3.65Z over the
Bank's interest rate.
ProJect Obiectives:   The proposed project aims to improve MERALCO's
subtransmission and distribution systems, facilitate
better communication between substations, and revitalize
the organization's maintenance capabilities.
Proiect Description:  Under the proposed project, HERALCO would undertake the
following activities: (a) construction mnd upgrading of
subtransmission lines, and addition of substation
capacity; (b) upgrading of existing distribution
networks; (c) improvement and expansion of the radio-
multiplex facilities for system monitoring and control;
and (d) provision of equipment and vehicles to improve
maintenance.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Benefits:              The benefits of the proposed project are primarily (i)
the enhancement of the reliability of supply to existing
consumers; (ii) the decrease of system losses to achieve
greater efficiency in transmission and distribution; and
(iii) the provision of additional distribution capacity
to satisfy strongly growing demand.
Risk:                  No technical risks are foreseen.  As a result of the
occasional liquidity constraints that are normal to a
public utility, MERALCO could have difficulty realizing
counterpart funds and thereby keeping to the project
implementation schedule.
EstimatelI Costs:
Local     Foreign    Total
--------USS Million-------
Subtransmission Lines and Substations              34.3         33.4     67.7
Upgrading of Distribution System                   15.1          9.7     24.8
Radio-Multiplex Facilities                          0.9          2.0      2.9
Mairtenance Equipment and Vehicles                  1.4          4.7      6.1
Base Cost                                    51.7         49.8    101.5
Physical Contingencies                        5.2          5.0      10.2
Price Contingencies                           4.1          4.2       8.3
iotal Project Cost /a                   61.0         59.0    120.0
Interest During Construction                            3.5          6.5     10.0
Total Financing Requirements                 64.5         65.5    130.0
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                                6.5         59.0     65.5
MERALCO                                            58.0          6.5     64.5
Total                                     ,  64.5         65.5    130.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year                 1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
- _______________ (USS million) ------------
Annual                            0.5     5.9    12.8    17.0    14.0    15.3
Cumulative                        0.5     6.4    19.2    36.2    50.2    65.5
Economic Rate of Return: 32Z
/a The project cost includes an estimated US$9 million equivalent of taxes
nt" g,t 4 -



- iii -
PHILIPPINES
MANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE ENERGY SECTOR .............................................     1
A.  Overview        ..................................................  1
B.  Energy Sector Institutions ................................     1
C.  The Power Sector ....... .................                      2
D.  Bank Lending for the Sector ...............................     4
E.  Sectoral Issues .........................                       S
F.  Rationale for Bank Involvement ..... .............              8
II. THE PROJECT.8
A. Project Origin and Formulation    ..
B. Project Objectives    ..
C. Project Description..                                            9
D. Project Costs    ..10
E. Financing Plan    ..11
F.  Project Implementation and Schedule     ..12
G. Procurement ...........................................    13
H. Disbursements..                                                 15
I. Monitoring and Reporting.         ............................   15
J. Environment      ....................... ........................   16
III.  THE BORROWER ...................................................   16
A.  Background 1958-1986 ......................................    16
B.  DBP's New Role and Strategic Orientation ..................    17
C. Organization and Management ...............................    19
This project was appraised originally in August 1987 by a mission consisting
of Messrs. Jamil Sopher, Darayes B. Mehta, and Anil K. Malhotra (World Bank).
It was reappraised in November 1988 by a mission consisting of Messrs. Jamil
Sopher, Vinod Busjeet, Karl Jechoutek, Mihir Mitra, and Joachim Iske (World
Bank). This report is based on the findings of these two missions.



- iv -
Page No.
D. Personnel Policy and Training                                   ..                            19
E. Accounting and Management Information System                                . .               20
F. Loan Activity and Asset Management                                  .          .              20
G. Liability Management                                      ..                                  21
H. Firancial Position and Performance                                  .          .              22
I.  Audit .....................................................                                  24
J.   The  Proposed Loan               ....................          ......................    24
IV.   THE BENEFICIARY ................................................                                  25
A.   Introduction ...............................................                                 25
B.   Ownership            ........................           .........................           25
C.   Organization,  Management  and Staff  ..........                  ..       ............     26
D. Training                                          ..     27
E.   Operations,  Maintenance  and Losses  ..........                  ..       ............     27
F.   Accounting  System  ....... .............                     .....................         28
G.   Financial  Planning  and Budgeting  ...........                  ..      .............      28
H.   Commercial  Systems  ....... .............                      ....................        28
I.   Audit          ..........................           ...........................             39
J.   Taxes          ..........................            ...........................            39
K.   Insurance            ........................           .........................           39
L.   Dividends            ........................           .........................           30
V.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  OF MERALCO  .................................                                 30
A. Introduction                                         ..                                       30
B.   Past  and Present  Financi-- Performance  ........                   ..      ..........     30
C.   Tariff          ..........................            ..........................            33
D. Revaluation of Assets                                      ..                                 34
E.   Financing Plan  ........            ..............          ......................          35
F.   Future  Financial  Performance  .............I................ .                            36
VI.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  ...............................                                   38
A.   Design Optimization  .......               .................          ...............       38
B.   Economic  Rate  of Return  ...............                ..       ..................       39
C.  Benefits and Risks                 .          ..............................   40
VII.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  .................................                                   41



v 
ANNEXES
1.01 Load Forecast for the Luzon Grid
1.02 Load Forecast for the MERALCO Franchise Area 1988-97
2.01 Detailed Description of the Project
2.02 Detailed Project Cost
2.03 Project Implementation Schedule
2.04 Major Project Procurement Contracts
2.05 Disbursement Schedule
3.01 DBP's Annual Financial Statements 1984-87
3.02 DBP's Projected Annual Financial Statements 1988-94
3.03 Organization Chart for DBP
3.04 DBP's Policy Statement
4.01  Organization Chart for MERALCO
4.02 MERALCO - Staffing Profile
5.01 HERALCO's Annual Financial Statements and Projections 1984-95
5.02  MERALCO's Program to Reduce System Losses, Receivabl.es and Payables.
6.01 Economic Rate of Return
6.02 List of Documents in Project File
MAP
IBRD 21390 - Expansion of the MERALCO System



- 1 -
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Overview
1.1      The energy sector's preeminence in the Philippine economy grew as a
result of the oil crisis of the 1970s. At the time of the first major oil
price increase in 1973. imported oil accounted for 95Z of total energy
consumption. The Government responded to that price increase by implementing
an  iergy diversification/management policy, which was based on:
(a) replacing imported oil with indigenous primary energy; and (b) using
pricing as the major means of encouraging the efficient utilization of energy.
Since then, the ratio of imported oil to total energy usage declined to 562 in
1986 and is expected to drop further to about 482 by 1992; and the price paid
by users of petroleum and derivative products, including electricity,
increased substantially. With the recent economic recovery, energy usage has
begun increasing rapidly; in particular, electrical energy consumption reached
19,337 GWh in 1987, representing a growth rate of 13.4X over 1986. Power
consumption in 1988 and beyond is expected to continue to grow at a rate of
about 72 per annum.
1.2      The shares of energy consumption by sector have remained stable over
the years. The residential and commercial sectors account for about 162 of
usage, with the industrial sector consuming 442, and the transport sector,
352. The share of electricity as a proportion of energy consumption has
increased considerably; electrical energy accounted for about 472 of primary
energy consumption in 1986, compared to only 222 in 1973.
B. Energy Sector Institutions
1.3      Before the change in government in 1986, the Ministry of Energy
coordinated all policies, plans and programs for the energy sector. The
ministry served as the parent organization for two of the largest Government
owned corporationss (i) the National Pcwer Corporation (NPC), which had
responsibility for power generation ani transmission; and (ii) the Philippine
National Oil Company (PNOC), which was responsible for assuring the adequacy
of oil supplies and for development of indigenous energy resources. The
National Electrification Administration (NEA), which has been the organization
responsible for formulating and implementing the Government's rural
electrification policies, wap sIot within the control of the Ministry of
Energy, but ratner under the Ministry of Human Settlements.
1.4      Foilowing the change in Government in 1986, both the Ministry of
Energy and the Ministry of Human Settlements were dissolved; all energy
agencies as well as NEA were brought temporarily under the Office of the
President. In mid 1987, the Office of Energy Affairs (OEA), which was given
responsibility for planning and coordinating policies and programs for the
energy sector, was formally placed under the Office of the President. At the
same time, NPC and PNOC were brought under the formal control of the Office of
the Pr sident while NEA was placed under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Environment and Natural Resources. The Energy Regulatory Board (ERB) was
formed, and was given inter alia price setting authority over private sector
suppliers of electricity. Recently, to develop formal linkages between the



-2-
energy sector participants, the Government formed an Energy Coordinating
Council (ECC) that would (i) be chaired by the Executive Secretary; (ii) have
as members NPC, PNOC, and NEA; and (iii) have OEA acting as its Secretariat.
C. The Power Sector
1.5      Overview.  The electric power industry in the Philippines is divided
into two segments: (a) generation and transmission; and (b) distribution.
The sector has a number of participating organizations, some of which are
publicly, and others privately, owned. By far, the largest organization is
NPC, which is responsible for the generation of bulk power and its transmis-
sion through a number of grids that serve virtually the entire country except
for remote rural areas and small outlying islands. Power is distributed
within major urban areas by a number of investor-owned utilities. Of these,
the largest is the Manila Electric Company (MERALCO), which serves Metro
Manila and surrounding tural areas, and accounts for about 70? of NPC's sales
in Luzon (about 502 of NPC's sales nationwide). The rural areas are served by
117 Rural Electric Cooperatives (REC), a few of which generated all or patt cf
their power. Recently, NPC agreed to take control over these RECs' generating
facilities; and the RECs are becoming electricity distribution outfits
exclusively. NEA was established to service the cooperatives by
(i) mobilizing funds; (ii) providing technical assistance; and (iii) arranging
procurement of common materials.
1.6      At the end of 1987, the total installed capacity of the Philippine
power subsector was abo ' 6,600 MW, of which 5,788 MW (88Z) belonged to NPC.
Total generation from be,; facilities was about 21.0 TWh in 1987, accounting
for about 90Z of the Philippinec' total generation. The residential sector
accounted for 23Z of aggregate electricity sales; the commercial sector, 22Z;
the industrial sector, 50Z; and the Government, street lighting and water
supply, 5X. Losses exceeded 212 of gross generation.
1.7      As a result of absorbing the franchises of failing rural electrifica-
tion cooperatives along its fringes, MERALCO's service area expanded from
3,244 sq km in 1982 to 8,813 sq km in 1986, and its number of customers rose
by 45?, from 1.1 million to 1.6 million during the same n-riod. While its
franchise area remained essentially the same in 1987, its number of consumers
increased by nearly 62 to about 1.7 million during that year. MERALCO's
energy sales rose from a 1982 level of 8.5 TWh to a high of 9.2 TWh in 1983,
and then fluctuated with the performance of the economy; sales declined to
about 8 TWh during both 1985 and 1986 before rising again to about 8.8 TWh in
1987. Annual financial performance has been averaging a healthy 8? return on
revalued assets; however, because of liquidity constraints (para. 5.3),
MERALCO's capital expenditures have been less than 70Z of the company's own
estimate of requirements for sustaining its standards of service, especially
during the economic recession of 1982-86. During that period system losses
increased from 11? to 21Z. While MERALCO stabilized its losses at essentially
the same level in 1987, it succeeded in reducing them considerably to an
average of 17Z during 1988.
1.8      Load Forecasts for Luzon and the MERALCO Franchise Area.  The strong
growth in demalnd recorded in 1987 has continued into 1988. As a result of the
economic recovery and expectations that the deeper economic problems of the
mid-1980s have been overcome, growth in electricity demand is expected to



remain strong well into the 19909. The latest system load forecast for the
Luzon grid through the year 2002 (Annex 1.01) assumes a growth rate of 7.01
for energy sold for the period 1988-90; this growth rate increases to 7.52 for
the period 1991-2002. An even more robust growth is forecast for the MERALCO
franchise area (Annex 1.02). Total sales are forecast to grow by slightly
more than 10? per year during the period 1988-92; this rate would then be
expected to drop to about 7.82 for the period 1993-97. The projected growth
in demand is expected to be led by industry (whose demand for electricity is
expected to grow by nearly 12X per year during 1988-92 and about 8.4? per year
during 1993-97) and commerce (whose demand for electricity is expected to grow
by nearly 112 per year during 1988-92 and about 8? per year during 1993-97);
during the same period, the number of MERALCO's consumers is only expected to
increase by about 4.22 per year (4.72 per year during 1988-92 and 3.7? during
1993-97). These growth rates will require that (a) NPC make substantial
investments in generation and transmission equipment between 1989-98;
(b) MERALCO expand and upgrade its distribution system substantially during
the same period; and (c) MERALCO improve substantially its system reliability,
inter alia by reducing losses, during 1989-92.
1.9      Power Sector Investment Program.   The existing generating capacity
in Luzon is 4,100 MW. NPC's oil-based power plants (about 1,925 MW), many of
which had originally been built and owned by MERALCO, have not been maintained
adequately during the recent past and have deteriorated to conditions of poor
reliability and low thermal efficiency. Currently, those plants are operating
at substantially less than their rated capacity, and NPC has begun
implementing a program to rehabilitate them. In addition, about 220 MW at the
Tiwi Geothermal plant will be retired by 1990 due to technical problems with
the steam supply. Therefore, the total available capacity, after
rehabilitation of the oil-fired plants, will be about 3,000 MW. In contrast,
the Luzon grid's current peak demand of 2,600 MW is expected to reach 3,700 MW
by 1992. New generation due to be commissioned before 1992 includes some
500 MW of gas turbines and the 110 MW Bacon Manito 'eothermal Power Plant
(financed in part by Loan 2969-1-PH). As a result, system reliability is
expected to fall somewhat; the loss of load probability is expected to
increase from its present level of about four days/year to about seven
days/year by 1991.
1.10     Meeting increased load demand and improving NPC's system reliability
will require some heavy investment, estimated at about US$7 billion equivalent
between 1989 and 1995, a time when both NPC and the Government will face
serious resource mobilization constraints. Short-term increases in capacity
can only be provided through projects involving short lead time for which
substantial financing will have to be obtained on attractive terms. Longer-
term investment decisions need to be optimized in order that available
resources can be stretched as far as possible. NPC is exploring ways of
relieving the Government and itself of a part of this investment burden by
creating a climate conducive to private sector participation in generation
through Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) or Build-Operate-Own (BOO) programs;
alternatively, mechanisms are being developed to char..el private sector
financing into the power sector. The Development Bank of the Philippines
(DBP), which has been designated by the Government to become the nation's
principal wholesale bank (para. 3.6), is considering a number of initiatives
for encouraging private sector investment in the power sector. In the context



- 4 -
of its role as a wholesale bank, DBP ir participating in the proposed project
as the prospective Borrower of the RanK loan and will onlend the proceeds to
MERALCO (paras. 2.12 and 3.27).
1.11     The plannez: investments in generation ard transmission need to be
supplemented with investments by the private distribution companies and the
RECs in improvement and augmentation of distribution systems. Investments in
reducing distribution losses are particularly urgent, as these can delay the
need for additions to generating capacity. However, throughout the 19809,
investments in distribution system upgrades were well below what was needed
and focussed primarily on adding new connections. MERALCO alone is facing
investments of about US$460 million during 1989-93, merely to restore its
system to its 1982 operating standards. These investments would expand the
capacity of its transmission and subtransmission networks as well as its
system of substations, ard extend primary and secondary distribution lines to
meet the load. To the extent that MERALCO can obtain financing for this
program from commercial sources, the investment burden facing NPC and the
Government would be reduced still further. To ensure not only that MERALCO
develops an investment program that addresses adequately the need for system
expansion and improvement, but also actually implements those investments in a
timely fashion, at negotiations MERALCO agreed (i) to conduct not later than
December 1 of each year jointly with DBP and the Bank, a review of its
investment program for the next five years as well as its investment
accomplishments for the past two years, and (ii) to adopt the reviews'
mutually acceptable recommendations.
1.12     While MERALCO's medium term investments will have the biggest and
most immediate impact on upgrading the quality and reliability of distribution
services, the Government also needs to address the issue of inadequate
distribution systems in the rural electrification sector. To this end, the
Bank is considering including in some future operation to finance power
investments a rural electrification component targeting urgently needed
rehabilitatior. and major maintenance. In addition, a Rural Electrification
Sector Study will help prioritize investments in system expansion and
improvement. The Bank could then consider a program of investment lending for
that sector.
D. Bank Lending for the Sector
1.13     Over a period of 30 years, the Bank Group has made seven Bank Loans
and one IDA Credit, aggregating US$267.2 million, to NPC. These eight
operations financed seven projects, including one to develop geothermal power,
three to finance hydroelectric facilities, two to support thermal power
plants, and one to improve NPC's transmission system. However, between the
Seventh Power Project (Loan 1460-PH) and the Bacon Manito Geothermal Power
Project (Loan 2969-1-PH), the Bank did not have an active policy dialogue with
NPC for about ten years (1978-88). All of the early projects successfully met
their objectives and were completed without major problems; however, most
encountered project implementation delays caused in part by design changes and
in other part by cumbersome procedures for contract award. Some of those
delays led to cost overruns and delayed loans closings. This was particularly
true of the Fifth and Sixth Power Projects during the mid 19709 and, to a



-5-
lesser extent, of the Seventh Power Project (the last project to be financed
before the ten year hiatus). The Bank Group also made one loan for US$60
million to NEA. PPARs were prepared for (i) the Fourth Power Project (PPAR
No. P-0980, january 1976), and (ii) the Rural Electrification Project (PPAR
No. 5372, June 1985). Both audit reports confirmed that the projects
encountered implementation delays and some cost overruns resulting from design
changes and cumbersome contract award procedures.  These problems should be
minimized under the proposed project because (i) detailed designs were
comprehensive and thorough, and were either completed or well advanced by
project appraisal in November 1988, and (ii) the appraisal mission
concentrated on procurement packaging with the expectation that bidding
procedures would be completed ahead of schedule, thereby accommodating some
delays in contract award.
1.14     Another member of the Bank Group, the International Finance
Corporation (IFC) has made two loans to MERALCO: (i) one for US$12 million
equivalent in 1967, and (ii) a second for US$32 million equivalent in 1588.
The recent lTan is intended to finance a time slice of MERALCO's investment
program between 1989-91. In addition, IFC has indicated an interest in taking
a lead role in placing with other investors future MERALCO issues of common
stock or equivalent permanent equity instruments. With IFC as the anchor for
its foreign financing efforts, MERALCO is seeking investment financing from
(i) the Bank for the proposed project; (ii) the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
(KfW) for a project to strengthen its system of substations, and (iii) the
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) for projects that will improve and
augment distribution facilities serving depressed areas in Metro Manila and
rural areas within MERALCO's franchise.  IFC is taking an active role
throughout the Philippine power sect-or. In addition to its activities with
i         MERALCO, IFC is participating in the first BOT venture to construct and
operate generating facilities and sell the output in bulk to NPC.
E. Sectoral Issues
1.15     In conjunction with the recently completed Energy Sector Study
(Report 7269-PH; September 15, 1988), the Government has developed a strategy
for exploiting alternative fuels in future power sector developments. As a
derivative of that strategy, NPC developed a least cost investment program
that was eviewed in detail with the Bank. In conjunction with the Bacon
Manito Geothermal Power Project (Loan 2969-1-PH), NPC has agreed to annual
reviews by the Bank of its investment program. The other issues, which need
to be addressed in the context of the proposed project and future operations
in the Philippine power sector, are operational in nature and concern the need
to (i) mobilize long-term funds, especially from private sector sources, to
finance power sector investments; (ii) reduce distribution system losses;
(ili) rationalize tariffs in line #ith long run marginal cost; and (iv)
restructure the finances of the power utilities and RECs.
1.16     Financing of Power Sector Investments.  As mentioned previously
(para. 1.10), the power sector's investment requirements exceed the financing
capabilities of the Government. Steps to engage private sector participation
in investments in electric power are needed urgently. NPC is proceeding on
one track to interest private parties in the construction and operation of



- 6 -
generating facilities. In those cases, NPC would purchase the output from
these facilities at a price based on its own cost of supply; the operator
could realize a substantial return on investment, depending on the efficiency
with which the facility was built and operated. If successful, these programs
would reduce the extent of power sector investments that the C' vernment would
need to address.
1.17     In addition, the Government needs to develop a strategy for financing
power sector investments. For the short and medium terms, that strategy needs
to emphasize borrowing from foreign lenders, with an immediate focus on
official sources. NPC is already authorized to borrow from abroad and has
developed direct access to a wide varietv of foreign lenders and development
institu'tions. However, the Government must also arrange for the private
distribution utilities and the RECs to obtain financing from similar sources
for their critically needed investments. In the longer term, resources need
to be mobilized from the private sector and channeled into instruments with
maturities appropriate to the longer term needs of the power sector.
1.18     Following its successful restructuring and institutional
strengthening during the last two years, DBP has been designated as the
financial institution responsible for tapping long-term funds currently
available in the Philippines (such as, funds from the Social Security System,
insurance companies, pension funds, etc.) for channeling into capital
intensive sectors. It would perform this resource mobilization function by
acting as a (i) wholesale bank, providing funds raised locally as well as from
official foreign borrowings to retail financial institutions for onlending to
eventual borrowers; and (ii) syrndicator of local currency loans. This
strategic reorientation of DBP from a traditional development finance
institution into a wholesale bank will lead to it playing an important role in
financing power sector investments in the future. By acting as the
prospective Borrower and onlender ot the proposed loan, DBP is undertaking its
first significant initiatives toward fulfilling its wholesale banking
responsibilities in this sector.
1.19     Reducing Distribution Losses.  Nationwide, distribution losses
exceeded 21? in 1987. System losses within Luzon increased from 14Z in 1978
to 24? in 1987. During the same period, MERALCO's system losses increased
from about 9? to about 21Z. The Government, however, has lacked a strategy
for investment in distribution. Whatever investment was made during this
period, be it within the franchise areas of the private distribution utilities
or the RECs, focussed on adding new connections, frequently at the expense of
quality of service for existing consumers.
1.20     In 1987, when MERALCO r.ecognizci the urgency of addressing this
problem, it developed programs for reducing technical and non-technical
losses.  An investment program was developed to improve and augment its
facilities so that they would be adequate to meet growing demand throughout
its franchise area. Specific investments were selected inter alia based on
the benefits they would provide in reducing system losses (para. 6.2). The
proposed project includes many components that address the issue of technical
losses, either by strengthening or replacing system weak points. In addition,
MERALCO has developed and begun implementing successfully a program to reduce
non-technical losses (para. 5.8 and Annex 5.02). In conjunction with the
proposed project, MERALCO agreed to continue implementing that program.



- 7 -
1.21     In part to assist in developing an approach for reducing rural
distribution losses, the Government invited the Bank to conduct a Rural
Electrification Sector Study. The main field mission for that study was
undertaken in March 1989, and the results of the study are expected to be
discussed with the Government during the summer of 1989. That study will seek
to help NEA develop a strategy for investment, and identify measures that NEA
and the RECs can take to improve their operational effectiveness.
1.22     Tariff Rationalization.  Although NPC's revenues per kWh are similar
to what would be expected from a marginal cost based tariff, and revenues per
kWh of the distribution utilities and the RECs often exceed marginal cost
based levels, the structure of tariffs is inconsistent with marginal cost
considerations. Demand charges are low and do not reflect the cost of adding
capacity; in contrast, high voltage consumers pay energy charges that exceed
considerably the cost of supply. Moreover, virtually all distribution tariffs
include (i) extremely generous blocks of electricity being provided to low
voltage consumers at highly subsidized rates, and (ii) provisions to enable
the distribution utilities and the RECs to recover from the consumer the cost
of purchasing electricity that has either been subsidized or dissipated as
losses. Thus, some consumers are paying negligible amounts for much more than
their minimal power requirements, while others are paying much more than the
cost of supply for their electricity.
1.23     In early 1987, the Government adopted a policy that electricity
tariffs should be based on marginal cost. In that context, NPC is
restructuring its tariffs to reflect marginal cost considerations. The
distribution utilities and the RECs would then redesign their own tariffs
based on the new NPC tariff that applies to them. The Bank has an active
dialogue with the Government and NPC regarding this issue. The proposed
project does not address this issue specifically because the initiative in
resolving this issue rests with NPC and not MERALCO.
1.24     Financial Restructuring of the Power Utilities and the REC8. Because
of the absence of long-term financial instruments bearing maturities that are
appropriate to the long-term needs of the power sector, the power utilities
and the RECs must necessarily be more conservative than their counterparts in
developed countries in their use of leverage. However, the power utilities
(including, in this instance, NFC) have built their equity foundation on
revaluation reserves (which are non-cash book entries) rather than on paid-in
capital or retained earnings (which represent actual cash inflows). In turn,
the RECs have only minimal paid-in capital and generally lack the revenues
needed to build a solid base of retained earnings.
1.25     Until an appropriate long-term debt instrument is developed, the
power utilities need to be encouraged to raise more permanent capital. Since
they will need to pay dividends to attract that capital, rates will need to be
kept high enough to enable the retention of satisfactory amounts of earnings.
The proposed project addresses this issue through the raising of new equity
capital and the substantial retained earnings that are vital constituents of
MERALCO's financing plan for 1989-93 (para. 5.13 et seq. and Annex 5.01). The
Rural Electrification Sector Study is examining prospects for the RECs to use
electricity pricing to improve their retained earnings.



-8-
F. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.26     The Government is facing major investments in the power sector over
the next several years. These investments are intended to provide major gene-
ration and transmisqion facilities needed to meet existing demand as well qs
rapidly increasing new demand resulting from recent and projected economic
growth. However, the benefits of new investment in generation and transmis-
sion cannot be optimized unless balanced by appropriate investments in distri-
bution. The Government has developed a strategy far least-cost power
development and for strengthening the policy and institutional framework in
the sector. It would like the Bank to help in implementing that strategy by
supporting a series of projects.
1.27     Through the Bacon Manito Geothermal Power Project (Loan 2969-1-PH;
June 23, 1988), this proposed project, and an Energy Sector Loan that is
currently under preparation, the Bank has developed close working
relationships with the principal sector entities and is thus in a position to
assist the Government in achieving much needed sector coordination. While the
other operations address issues related to generetion and transmission, this
project addresses issues facing the entity responsible for distributing about
half of the country's commercially available electricity. In particular, the
project will support overdue system extensions and improvements, and will
ensure that MERALCO maintains investments at appropriate levels in the future.
Also, the project would enable the Bank to support specific measures for
strengthening MERALCO's operational and commercial capabilities.
1.28     The proposed loan would also support DBP in its new wholesale banking
role. More specifically, the Bank's participation in the project will help
develop DBP's capacity to appraise and supervise large loans to the power
sector.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Formulation
2.1      The Bank was originally asked to consider financing much of the
proposed project as a component of the Bacon Manito Geothermal Power Project
(Loans 2969-0-PH and 2969-1-PH). Therefore, the proposed project was
appraised for the first time in August 1987, in conjunction with the appraisal
of the Bacon Manito Project. However, the MERALCO component was dropped from
the Bacon Manito Project when an arrangement for channeling the proceeds of a
Bank loan to MERALCO, acceptable to the Government, MERALCO and the Bank,
could not be established. Since then, DBP has been successfully restructured
and designaW.ed as the nation's principal wholesale Bank (para. 3.6); in that
capacity, it can serve as conduit for official foreign loans to private sector
companies. The Bank reappraised the proposed project in that context in
November 1988.



- 9 -
B. Project Obiectives
2.2      The proposed project is designed to improve MERALCO's subtransmission
and distribuition systems, facilitate better communication between substations,
and revitalize the organization's maintenance capabilities. In so doing, it
will er-able MERALCO to meet increasing load demands in the coming years,
reduce losses and ensure more effective distribution of electricity within its
franchise area. The proposed project will also support improvement of
MERALCO's technical and commercial operations.
C. Project Description
2.3      The main components of the project are:
(a) Construction and upgrading of subtransmission lines, and addition
of substation capacity;
(b) Construction and upgrading of distribution systems;
(c) Improvement and expansion of the radio-multiplex facilities for
system monitoring and control; and
(d) Provision of equipment and vehicles to improve maintenance.
2.4      Subtransmission Lines and Substations.  This component entails
construction of about 78 km of 115 kV, 31 km of 34.5 kV and 6 km of 13.8 kV
subtransmission lines, in addition to some small sections of 230 kV and 69
kV lines; reconductoring of about 14 km of 34.5 kV and 4 km of 13.8 kV
lines; installation of about 1,355 MVA of substation capacity; and addition
of approximately 104 MVAR of reactive compensation devices. It will enable
MERALCO to strengthen its transmission and distribution network to cope
with projected increases in demand for power, reduce system losses, improve
quality of service, and enhance the reliability of its distribution system.
While the subtransmission lines will also relieve overloading of existing
lines and provide additional outlets for power, the substations will assure
efficient distribution of energy.
2.5      Upgrading of Distribution Systems.  Due primarily to resource
constraints, MERALCO's distribution network had not been maintained
adequately in the recent past (paras. 4.9 and 5.4), resulting in increased
system interruptions, loss of reliability and higher system losses. Since
mid-1987, however, MERALCO has embarked upon a distribution system
improvement program. Not only are the constituents of this component
intended to reverse the deteriorating trend, but they also aim to reduce
technical losses through optimum design of extensions and improvements in
existing distribution facilities. Activities included under this program
are rehabilitation of lines, conversion to higher voltages, reconductoring
of overloaded lines, and improvement of power factor, metering and
monitoring facilities. This latter activity involves inter alia
installation of voltage regulators, line capacitors, kWh-meters, load break



- 10 -
switches, transformer cooling fans, conductors and power cables. This
combination of activities has been formulated as an on-going program for
which MERALCO has developed annual implementation plans. This project
component envisages financing a time slice of HERALCO's annual distribution
system improvement plans for the years 1990 to 1993.
2.6      Radio-Multiplex Facilities.  Effective system operation and
control includes ensuring adequate communication facilities between the
electric system control center and the substations. A SCADA (Supervisory
Control and Data Acquisition) system is being installed with the financial
and technical support of the suppliers/manufacturers of the equipment;
however, the effective use of the SCADA system as well as other equipment
for system operation and control requires that the existing communication
facilities linking MERALCO's substations be rehabilitated and expanded to
accommodate increased communication traffic brought about by increases in
the number of customers and the expansion of the franchise area. A radio
multiplex system currently serves as MERALCO's primary communication link
for supervisory control, pilot-wire relaying, telemetering, and voice and
data communication. Rehabilitation and improvement of this radio multiplex
system will require purchase and installation of 30 sets of radio multiplex
equipment to link the master control station with 18 remote stations.
Other communication and control activities included under this component
are: (i) installation of a system to monitor remote substations;
(ii) replacement of old communication equipment and cables; and
(iii) installation of a voice frequency telegraph system.
2.7      Maintenance Equipment and Vehicles.  To operate and maintain its
vast array of transmission and distribution networks effectively, MERALCO
needs special maintenance equipment and mechanized construction and
maintenance vehicles as well es spares of important line equipment.
Included in this component are the purchase of cranes, basket and derrick
trucks and a wrecker to facilitate both construction and maintenance, and
spare transformers, capacitors, switchgear, and circuit breakers to
facilitate repairs.
2.8      A detailed description of the proposed project is presented in
Annex 2.01.
D. Project Costs
2.9      The total project cost is estimated at US$120 million (excluding
interest during construction), of which about US$59 million is the foreign
cost including the indirect foreign cost of local components. Detailed cost
estimates for the project are presented in Annex 2.02 and summarized below in
Table 2.1:



- 11 -
Table 2.1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
Foreign Coat
Po oUMillion           USIJ million         as X of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Forelgn  Total    Total
Subtran"miaain Lines and Substations   784.0    714.0 1,443.6    84.8   18.4   67.7    49.8
Upgradin of Distribution System     828.1    207.6  580.7    15.1    9.7    24.8    89.1
Rodlo-Multiplox Fel'lltl" n19.8               42.6    62.1     0.9    2.0    i.9    69.0
Meintenance Equipment and Vehicles   80.0    100.6   180.6    1.4    4.7    6.1    77.1
Total B*se Coat                 1,106.4   1,065.6 2,172.2    61.7   49.6   101.6    49.1
Phyulcl Contingencies          111.8    107.0  216.8    6.2    6.0   10.2    --
Price Contingencies              67.7      86.5   174.2    4.1    4.2    6.8    --
Total Project Cost /          1,806.4   1,269.8 2,6e4.7    61.0   59.0   120.0    49.2
INTEREST OURINQ CONSTRUCTION   74.9    189.1   214.0    8.5    6.6    10.0    --
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED     1,860.3   1,896.4 2,776.7    64.5   65.5   180.0    50.4
/a The project cost Includes an estimated USS9 million equivalent of taxes and duties.
2.10     All costs are in December 1988 prices and are based on recent price
quotations from equipment suppliers.  Physical contingencies are computed at
102. The price escalation for all costs expressed in US dollars is calculated
according to anticipated international price movements of 5.32 for 1988-90.
and 4.12 for 1991 and thereafter. The price escalation for all costs
expressed in local currency is calculated according to projected local
inflation rates of 7.5Z for 1988. 9Z for 1989-90 and 8.02 for 1991 and
thereafter. Interest during construction on the Bank loan is calculated by
applying the Bank's current interest rate of 7.652 to the average amount
expected to be drawn down in each year of construction. Interest during
construction on other loans is calculated similarly, using the aggregate
interest rate to HERALCO of 11.3Z. and adding applicable costs including the
commitment fee for the undrawn portion of the Bank loan before  substracting
the amount payable to the Bank.
E. Financing Plan
2.11     The financing plan for the project is presented in Table 2.2 below:
Table 2.2: FINANCING PLAN FOR THE PROJECT
(USS Million)
Local            Foreign              Total             Percent
IBRD                   6.5               59.0                65.5              50.4
MERALCO               58.0                 6.5               64.5              49.6
Total            64.5                65.5               130.0              100



- 12 -
The Bank would finance the entire foreign component of the Total Project Cost
(which excludes interest during construction). In addition, the project
entails a substantial amount of civil works for the subtransmission and
distribution components. The Bank would finance about 652 (about US$6.5
million) of civil works that would be undertaken by contractors.
2.12     The proposed Bank loan of US$65.5 million would be lent to DBP for 20
years, including five years of grace on repayment of principal, at the
standard variable interest rate. DBP would relend the proceeds of the Bank
loan to MERALCO on terms that include a maturity of twenty years and grace
period of five years, and a fixed interest rate spread of not more than 3.65Z
over the Bank loan. MERALCO would finance from internal cash generation the
interest during construction associated with the onlent Bank loan and also
would bear the full foreign exchange risk. Execution of a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between DBP and MERALCO, that shall have been reviewed and found
satisfactory by the Bank, is a condition of loan effectiveness.
2.13     The Government would guarantee the proposed Bank loan to DBP.  In
turn, DBP would rely on collateral provided by MERALCO to secure the onlending
of the Bank loan proceeds (para. 3.30).
F. Project Implementation and Schedule
2.14     The transmission and distribution components are well within
MERALCO's technical and managerial capabilities for design, engineering and
implementation. By June 15, 1989, MERALCO will appoint a project manager for
coordinating its activities in connection with the proposed project. The
stringing of subtransmission lines will be undertaken by MERALCO's own work
force. Construction under the project will be managed by MERALCO. In cases
where the civil works involved are relatively small and well within the
purview of its normal activities, that construction would also be handled by
MERALCO's own work force. Otherwise, the civil works would be undertaken by
contractors. Erection of equipment for the substations will be undertaken by
the equipment suppliers under the overall coordination of the MERALCO Project
Manager. Assembly of the communications system will, be implemented by
MERALCO, with supervisory assistance from the equipment suppliers.
2.15     The implementation schedule for the subtransmission and distribution
components has been determined according to the order of priority derived for
each individual constituent of MERALCO's least-cost development plan. Those
two components are scheduled to be implemented entirely during the period
1989-93. For most individual constituents of the subtransmission component,
engineering and design as well as procurement will need to be completed in
1989, primarily because of the long lead time involved in the procurement of
transformers. In contrast, the design for substations can only be finalized
after the equipment is purchased; therefore the implementation schedule for
the substations indicate that they will be designed in parallel with
implementation of the rest of the project components.
2.16     Implementation of the distribution system upgrade component is
scheduled according to annual plans, within which MERALCO has identified
constituent activities needed to address: ' , system loss reduction;



- 13 -
(b) enhancement of system reliability and quality of service; and
(c) requirements to meet load growth. In effect, the year-by-year work
schedules have been prioritized based on current levels of technical losses,
service interruptions, and projected load growth.
2.17     The engineering and design for the radio multiplex facilities has
already been completed, and tender documents for this component are under
preparation.
2.18     MERALCO plans to procure the maintenance equipment and vehicles in a
phased manner during the period 1990-92.
2.19     Annex 2.03 gives the implementation schedule with key dates for the
completion of important milestone activities for each component of the
proposed project. The project is scheduled for completion by end 1994.
G. Procurement
2.20     The procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in
Table 2.3 below.
Table 2.3: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANCEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Project Component               ICB     LCB   Other/a N/Alb  Total Cost
Subtransmission Lines and Substations   43.6        8.3     1.0   27.2       80.1
(41.1)   (2.0)   (1.0)  (0.0)    (44.1)
Distribution System Upgrade               11.5      4.1     1.0   12.7       29.3
(10.5)   (2.0)   (1.0)  (0.0)    (13.5)
Radio-Multiplex Facilities                 2.3      0.5     0.0    0.6         3.4
(2.3)   (0.0)   (0.0)  (0-0)       (2.3)
Maintenance Equipment and Vehicles         5.6      0.0     0.0    1.6         7.2
(5.6)   (0.0)   (0.0)  (0.0)       (5.6)
Total                                 63.0    12.9      2.0   42.1      120.0
(59.5)   (4.0)   (2.0)  (O.O)    (65.5)
NOTE:  Figures in parentheses indicate financing from the Bank loan.
/a  Limited international bidding, and international and local shopping.
Lb Refsrs to expenditures on engineering and administrative overheads and also
duties and taxes of the order of approximately US$9.0 million.



- 14 _
2.21     For this project, MERALCO will prepare separate procurement packager
for all items to be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
These packages, which were finalized at negotiations, include: (i) power
transformer; (ii) mobile power transformer; (iii) metal clad switchgear;
(iv) gas-insulated switchgear; (v) power circuit breaker; (vi) disconnect
switch; (vii) station type capacitor base; (viii) transformer cooling fan;
(ix) underground power cable; (x) wire; (xi) storage battery and battery
charAer; (xii) fuse cutout; (xiii) distribution transformer; (xiv) potential
transformer and current transformer; (xv) radio multiplex equipment;
(xvi) oill/vacuum circuit recloser; (xvii) voltage regulator; (xviii) regulator
bypass disconnect switch; xix) line capacitor and accessories; (xx) load
breaker switch and line disconnect switch; (xxi) transmission and distribution
on-line pole; (xxii) lighting arrestor; (xxiii) insulator; (xxiv) time-of-day
meter; (xxv) mechanized vehicle; (xxvi) switchboard material; (xxvii) hardware
and accessories; and (xxviii) civil works for transmission and distribution
systems. Many of these procurement packages will be bid concurrently so that
potential bidders are able to obtain bidding documents for as many packages as
they like and bid on any number of packages. The procedures to be followed
will be ICB as specified in the Bank's Procurement Guidelines, except in those
instances noted in para. 2.22, in which Local Competitive Bidding (LCB),
Limited International Bidding (LIB), and/or international and local shopping
(according to procedures that 'have been reviewed and found satisfactory by the
Bank) might be used. Annex 2.04 identifies the mode of procurement to be used
for each of the proposed packages together with a list of the equipment
included in each package and the expected delivery schedule for each category
of equipment. All civil works to be financed by the Bank will be bid
according to ICB. For all ICB procurement, local suppliers and contractors
will be permitted to participate and, at MERALCO's option, will be eligible in
the evaluation of bids for the lower of: (a) a preference of 15? on the CIF
cost of the imported goods; or (b) the prevailing customs duties and other
import taxes. All essential procurement documentation for goods being
financed by the Bank and having an estimated cost of over US$1 million
equivalent will be subject to the Bank's prior review. Procurement packages
valued at approximately 80X of the loan amount are likely to be reviewed.
2.22     While MERALCO intends that most of the major packages of materials
and equipment will be procured through ICB, some exceptions are possible for
contracts for (i) small lots of low value items where a large number of
foreign manufacturers are well represented in the Philippines; (ii) equipment
and materials that are proprietary; or (iii) purchases that are needed to
ensure standardization and compatibility with existing equipment. In
particular, for the distribution system upgrade component, many small items,
such as voltage regulators, line capacitors, kWh-meters, and load break
switches, need to be purchased on an annual basis. Also items in constant
demand, such as hardware and accessories needed for construction and
installation of equipment, are usually available off the shelf and MERALCO
should be capable of procuring them at short notice. The administrative
burden involved in procuring these items according to ICB may negate the
benefits of using that procedure. Contracts for these goods, not exceeding
US$200,000 up to an aggregate of US$4 million may be procured through LCB
procedures that have been reviewed and found acceptable by the Bank.
Equipment standardization may also call for LIB procedures that have been
reviewed and found acceptable by the Bank, to be followed in some exceptional



- 15 -
cases. Contracts for these goods, not exceeding US$200,000 up to an aggregate
of US$1 million, may be procured through LIB. Finally, contracts for goods not
exceeding US$50,000 up to an aggregate of US$1 million, may be procured
through international or local shopping, based on price quotations obtained
from several foreign and Local suppliers (usually at least three) to ensure
competitive prices.
H. Disbursements
2.23     The Bank loan would be disbursed against (a) 100X of the foreign
expenditures of directly imported equipment and materials; (b) 100? of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) of locally manufactured items procured through
ICB; and (c) 802 of local expenditures for other items procured locally; and
(d) 652 of the cost of civil works to be performed by contractors whose
services would be procured through ICB.
2.24     Disbursements for small contracts, with a value of USS 200,000 or
less, would made on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs).
Documentation supporting the SOEs would not be submitted to the Bank but would
be retained by DBP and made available for review by the Bank supervision
missions. To facilitate project disbursements, a Special Account in a fully
convertible currency will be established by DBP on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. The authorized allocation to the Special Account
will be US$4 million, representing four months' average project expenditure.
Replenishments to the Special Account would be made quarterly or whenever the
account is drawn down by about 50Z of the initial deposit.  The otandard
procedure for auditing SOEs will apply.
2.25     Annex 2.05 gives the disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank
loan. Since no specific disbursement profile has been compiled for power
projects in the Philippines, the Asia regional profile for power projects was
used to derive the disbursement schedule for this project. However, given
that the project consists of discreet components that are characterized by
standard materials and equipment and relatively short construction periods,
this project is not likely to span the seven years implied by the Asia
Regional profile. Therefore, that profile has been followed for the first
five and a half years and the remainder of the loan is assumed to be disbursed
in the last semester of the sixth year. The project completion date for the
proposed loan will be December 31, 1994 and the closing date of the loan will
be June 30, 1995. During appraisal, MERALCO indicated eloquently the urgency
of these investments and its commitment to implementing them even ahead of
schedule. This commitment combined with the approach used in packaging
procurement suggests that flie loan could be disbursed faster than projected
and that the project could be completed as early as December 1993.
I. Monitoring and Reporting
2.26     Satisfactory procedures for monitoring (i) the physical execution of
the project; (ii) project expenditures; and (iii) MERALCO's technical,
commercial, and financial performance were developed at appraisal. HERALCO
will furnish proaress reports to the Bank every six months.



- 16 -
J. Environment
2.27     In and around Metro Manila, the subtransmission lines will traverse
existing routes of N.PC-owned 230 kV lines or MERALCO-owned 115 kV and 34.5 kV
lines. None of the new lines will traverse virgin territory. They constitute
either second circuits of existing systems, or new lines supplementing
existing distribution networks. New substations are mostly additions to
existing NPC or MERAEf-O facilities. As such, no significantt environmental
impacts are associated with these projects. The transmission lines will be
designed according to international standards. Within urban areas, high
voltage lines will be run on poles meeting necessary safety codes.
2.28     Noise pollution from distribution substations is the one possible
environmental hazard that could exceed prescribed limits. After receiving
detailed design information on the trah.sformers from the potential suppliers,
MERALCO will conduct environmental impact studies for each of the substation
project components under this project. These studies will determine if, with
the installation of the new transformers, the noise level at the boundary of
any substation would exceed allowable limits. The results of these studies
will be available for discussion with the Bank. In the event the studies find
noise pollution that exceeds prescribed limits, MERALCO will take measures to
enclose transformers with adequate sound barriers so as to ensure compliance
with environmental regulations concerning electrical substations. These
arrangements are expected to ensure that the installations to be built will
meet the Bank's environmental guidelines and that the proposed project will
not have an adverse impact on the environment.
2.29     Although MERALCO owns most of the land it needs for the project, it
will need to purchase some additional small parcels in connection with a
number of the substations. In those cases, it has already identified the
parcels and is negotiating their purchase with the present owners. MERALCO
has confirmed that each of these parcels is vacant. However, in the event
that these parcels should become occupied by squatters, MERALCO will ensure
that they are adequately compensated. This is satisfactory to the Bank.
III. THE BORROWER
A. Background: 1958-1986
3.1      Established in 1958 as a Government-owned development bank, DBP's
financing operations until 1986 encompassed almost all segments of the
economy, and both large and small-scale enterprises. In addition to its
industrial, agricultural, real estate and transportation lending, DBP engaged
heavily in lending to social sectors such as education and health care.
Starting in the seventies, under the guise of its developmental mission, DBP
financed high risk and low return Government development programs ('directed'
or 'behest" lending), and the takeover of financially distressed firms at
Government's direction.



- 17 -
3.2      This lack of financial discipline in its lending, compounded by
serious weaknesses in internal organization and procedures (notably credit
appraisal and supervision), led to serious financial problems. In the early
1970s, the total debt to equity ratio rose to over 10:1; the current ratio
fell to 0.2:1; and arrears in the 1. a portfolio and defaults in the guarantee
portfolio were high. With its resource mobilization capacity undermined, DBP
had to rely mainly on Government deposits for funding its activities.
3.3      Several capital increasee between 1972 and l180, substantial
government deposits to support its liquidity position, and strengthening of
its organization and procedures all failed to stop DBP's deterioration in the
eighties.  Considerable problems of portfolio arrears and poor collection
rates persisted, as did the more intractable issue of high-risk and low-rate
behest loans. As part of the Bank financed Industrial Finance Project (Loan
1984-PH; 1981), the Government and DBP were asked to implement an "Action
Program", which included further organizational changes, measures to reduce
DBP's dependence on Government deposits, and actions to improve the collection
performance. The financial effects of behest lending were to be made
transparent, and Government was to provide financial assistance if DBP's
financial viability would be impaired as a result of behest lending. However,
continuation of DBP's problems, exacerbated by the economic and political
crises of the period, led to DBP losing its accreditation as a participating
financial institution in the project. DBP's financial situation in 1985
remained poor, with a net loss of P 6.9 billion (US$370 million equivalent),
representing a negative return on average net worth of -182.3Z. Annex 3.01
presents the details of DBP's financial performance for the period 1984-87.
3.4      Following the change in Government in 1986, the severity of DBP's
problems and its technical bankruptcy were addressed by a comprehensive
rehabilitation and financial restructuring program developed in conjunction
with the Bank financed Economic Recovery Loan (Loan 2787-PH) (ERL). Major
components included: (i) a new charter and policy statement, (ii) installation
of a new management team and Board of Directors, (iii) transfer of P 74
billion of nonperforming accounts to the Asset Privatization Trust (APT),
created by the Government to sell those assets; (iv) implementation of a
drastic cost reduction program through staff reduction and sale of branches;
(v) an internal reorganization and strengthening program focussing on credit
policies, legal procedures, financial controls, accounting and internal
cor.trols. and personnel management; and (vi) phasing out of subsidized
Government deposits.
B. DBP's New Role and Strategic Orientation
3.5      DBP's financial restructuring and the major elements of its internal
strengthening program under the ERL have essentially been completed, with DBP
being solvent during the last two years. Despite its profitability, however,
DBP has been seeking to define its role in the financial system. Not endowed
with the financial, organizational and personnel resources necessary to
undertake commercial banking, DBP was also not sure that traditional
development banking activities (with the higher risks attendant on term
lending) would be adequate to sustain its profitability.



- 18 -
3.6      A recent Bank study of the financial sector (IBRD Report No. 7177-PH,
August 23, 1988) identified the lack of institutional arrangements for
mobilizing and channeling long-term funds as a major constraint to investment.
The study recommended that a revamped DBP could be developed to fill this
institutional gap. This would involve mandating DBP to act primarily as a
wholesale financial institution, catering to financial intermediaries rather
than directly to business enterprises. Agreement with Government has been
reached on this new orientation.
3.7      The wholesale DBP would mobilize and channel term funds to the
private s,ztor through retail financial institutions. Given the availability
of domestic long-term funds from the Social Security System, insurance
companies and pension funds, DBP is expected to play a major role in domestic
resource nobilization. However, DBP's increased reliance on domestic resource
mobilization can only be gradual; in the near future, the lack of a developed
capital market and the Government's continuing needs to tap domestic savings
through high-yield Treasury bills would impede DBP's raising significant long
term peso funds. In such an environment, DBP will have to fund itself to a
significant degree through foreign sources in the coming years. In this
context, DBP has been designated as a conduit for official foreign borrowings,
the proceeds of which are to be channeled through retail financial
institutions for use in financing private enterprises. In line with this, the
Government has agreed to the transfer from the Central Bank to DBP of the
existing credit programs with foreign funding -- the Apex Development Finance
Program (APEX) and the Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (I6LF). As part of
the Financial Sector Adjustment Program, IBRD has helped DBP formulate an
Institutional Development Plan that would define and make operational DBP's
wholesale banking strategy, including an action plan for mobilizing domestic
term funds.
3.8      DBP's transformation to a primarily wholesale bank will be
accomplished through a gradual reduction of its tetail loan approvals and
outstanding retail loans to enterprises relative to the wholesale loan
appro-als and outstanding wholesale loans to financial institutions. By the
end of 1993, DBP's portfolio is to be predominently wholesale. Subject to the
availability of expected ODA funds, DBP projects that 692 of its outstanding
loan portfolio will consist of wholesale loans by 1994. Annex 3.02 provides
details of the gradual reduction, in relative terms, of retail lending and the
concomitant growth of wholesale loans.
3.9      The transition will also entail the gradual disinvestment from DBP's
br&nch network. With the exception of 15 regional and metropolitan branches,
all branches will be pooled into five regional development banks, which are to
be privatized according to a schedule agreed under the ERL. By 1993, DBP's
equity stake in these regional development banks would have been reduced to
302.



- 19 -
C. Organization and Management
3.10     Before 1987, the Board of Directors held day-to-day operational
responsibilities. Under the revised charter, the Board is a policy making
body distinct from management; only the Chairman and the Vice Chairman of the
Board are also bank managers. Composed of nine members appointed by the
President of the Republic of the Philippines, the Board now includes five
members from the private sector.
3.11     DBP has developed a revised organizational structure (Annex 3.03)
that is appropriate for implementing its wholesale banking strategy. The
guiding principles behind the new organization structure are: (a) clear
separation of funding and lending operations; and (b) upgrading of the
resource mobilization function by creating a Capital Markets Department.
Given the increased importance of resource mobilization, which has to be
carried out in the financial markets by an individual of high standing, the
Capital Markets Department will be headed by an officer holding the rank of at
least Vice President, reporting to the Executive Vice-President in charge of
the Treasury Gioup. On the lending side, an Executive Vice President for
Marketing will oversee the Financial Institutions Department that will manage
wholesale loans; the Entrepreneurial Banking Department will be in charge of
i          the Metro Manila Branch, and the Corporate Banking Department will be in
charge of project management.  The Industrial Restructuring Unit, which will
form part of the Strategic Planning Center, will report directly to the
Chairman.  The two Executive Vice Presidents and the Senior Vice President in
charge of Accounting and Administrative Services will also report to the Vice
Chairman, who in turn reports to the Chairman. An Internal Audit Department
reports directly to the Board of Directors.
D. Personnel Policy and Training
3.12     Under the ERL, DBP has reduced its staff from about 3500 to 2000,
mainly through an early retirement scheme. The new wholesale orientation of
DBP is expected to lead to a further net staff decrease of about 250:
selective recruitment of a small number of qualified individuals to handle the
new wholesale banking functions will be offset by reductions in staff
resulting from DBP's disinvestment from the branch network and reassignment of
existing staff from retail banking to wholesale banking.
3.13     A job and performance evaluation system as well as a merit oriented
financial reward system are in place, with the integration of the two systems
planned for 1989. The Chairman and senior management are aware that the
reorganized DBP must be able to offer compensation competitive with the
private financial sector, if it is to attract and retain the high caliber
staff necessary for it to perform its functions effectively.
3.14     DBP has engaged in extensive training of its staff in corporate
finance, loan packaging, financial analysis and legal issues. Aware that the
training efforts will have to be reoriented towards DBP's new activities in
wholesale banking, DBP's management is reviewing its training needs for the
period 1989-92, in the context of the Institutional Development Plan currently
under preparatior.. This assessment will take into accounts (a) the



- 20 -
incorporation of the APEX and IGLF units currently in the Central Bank; (b)
the increased importance of resource mobilization efforts; and (c) DBP's role
in conducting industrial restructuring studies and acting as a wholesale
channel for loans to support industrial restructuring programs.
E. Accounting and Management Information System
3.15     The flow of accounting data has improved substantially over the last
two years. Revised Branch and Head Office Accounting and Procedures Manuals
have been completed. Liquidity and reserve summaries are generated daily;
financial statements of branches and head office are consolidated monthly.
The general ledger is computerized and closed daily. Subsidiary ledgers for
loans, which had been booked separately by lending groups and industries
before the reorganization, have been centralized in the Transactions
Processing Department. A central mainframe computerized information system,
acquired from Citibank, is expected to be operational by 1990. This state-of-
the-art system will provide an integrated Management Information System that
allows immediate access to all transactions iJrrmation that is stored in a
centralized data base.  The system will also .......egrate (i) on-line
authorization and printing of customer advices, and (ii) contract
administration for loans, placeinents, bonds, deposits, commitments,
receivables and sundries until final maturity, thereby eliminating the need to
keep track manually of interest accruals, principal payments, liquidations and
billings. The system will also incorporate an automated accounting service.
Internal communications within the head office and between branches and head
office are expected to be computerized by the end of 1989. In the meantime,
the branches operate with stand-alone microcomputer systems for the general
ledger, loans and liabilities and the savings and current accounts.   The
ongoing computerization and a system of account profitability analysis are
expected to improve the management information system considerably.
F. Loan Activities and Asset Management
3.16     The DBP loan window was reopened in mid-1986 after a hiatus of four
years during which no new loans were released. Since then, DBP's investment
policy has been conservative, with lending being primarily short term and
excess liquidity being invested in securities, primarily Government issues.
In 1987, DBP realized no positive new net lending, while its securities
portfolio grew by P 2.8 billion. In 1988, outstanding loans grew by P 1.2
billion, while investments in bonds and securities were reduced by P 880
million.
3.17     DBP uses resources from its "Regional Development Fund" to extend
loans that do not completely satisfy commercial banking risk or collateral
criteria. Considered essential from a developmental point of view, these loans
involve concessions in one or moie of the following parameters -- interest
rates, repayment terms, or collateral requirements. The Regional Development
Fund comprises 30? of each year's net income after taxes and repayments of
loans sourced from the Fund. In the first three quarters of 1988, P 517
million or 18.5 Z of new loans were approved under this "Window III" facility.
However, as of December 1988, only P 74 million of Window III loans were



- 21 -
actually outstanding. DBP has agreed that (i) the risk exposure of these loans
and compliance with the 30% net income ceiling will be monitored closely; and
(ii) appropriate provisions will be made to take into account the potentially
higher risk. These provisions will amount to not less than a level of 10-202
above the average provisioning on conventional performing loans.
3.18     Loan recovery of non performing loans, entrusted to branch loan
workout taskforces and the Remedial Management Group at head office, has met
with some success. Out of 6000 non-performing accounts, representing P 4
billion, that remained on DBP's books after the transfer of the bigger
accounts to APT, collections representing P 1.2 billion were made on 3,800
accounts. In addition to standard loan collection and foreclosure activities,
an 8incentive scheme for pretermination" has been devised. By offering the
debtors a roll-back of interest to 1984 ( retroactive computing of interest
due on the basis of 1984 rates) and condonation of penalties in exchange for a
202 downpayment and an agreed schedule of repayment of the recomputed past
due, DBP has succeeded in collecting on about 300 formerly doubtful accounts.
Loan loss reserves cover 112 of the performing portfolio and 982 of the non
performing portfolio. Given DBP's past history, the conservative provisioning
policy is appropriate.
G. Liability Management
3.19      The current average maturity of funding liabilities is about 1.8
years, against an average loan maturity of 3.8 years. DBP's balance sheet is
now exceptionally liquid, with cash and due from banks representing 552 of
deposits and investments in bonds accounting for 372 of total assets.
Liquidity will decrease somewhat as (i) countryside bonds issued by DBP mature
and the interest-free Government deposits are repaid, and (ii) wholesale
lending activities grow. Investments of over P 5.1 billion in bonds and
securities at 1987-end have fallen to P 4.3 billion at 1988 end and are
projected to fall further. Wholesale lending is projected at P 3.8 billion in
1989, P 13.2 billion in 1990, P 18.0 billion in 1991, and P 23.9 billion in
1992. To fund its projected lending, DBP intends to supplement its foreign
currency sources by actively tapping the domestic capital market.
3.20     As a wholesale institution, DBP aims at playing a major role in
domestic resource mobilization. In addition to promoting an active secondary
market and lobbying for appropriate regulatory changes designed to open up the
primary market, DBP will enter the market for its own account by issuing a
variety of instruments, specially designed to tap different categories of
institutional investors. Through recruitment of a few experts in its Treasury
Group, DBP would acquire the required capabilities for designing, packaging,
timing, pricing and placing its debt instruments. Given investors' current
preference for short-term paper, DBP envisages that it would initially launch
a P 300 million, 3 year, listed bond issue to re-establish its presence in the
market. Favorable reception in the market would then be followed up by
further issues with longer maturities and lower coupons, to the extent allowed
by market conditions and crowding-out effects resulting from Government
funding requirements.



- 22 -
H. Financial Position and Performance
3.21     DBP's financial statements for the perlod 1984 to 1987 are given in
Annex 3.01. Unaudited results for 1988 are given in Annex 3.02. Its recent
financial performance is summarized in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF DBP'S FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE--1986-88
(P billion; Ratios in Percent )
Year                                      1986            1987          3988
Total Loans Outstanding                    5.27           4.39          6.15
Total Debt                                 6.82           7.07          6.63
Total Equity                               2.68           3.46          5.2
Ratios:
Debt/Equity                                2.5            2.0            1.3
Cash and Due from Banks/Deposits and
Short Term Borrowings (Z)                 35.5          26.8            45.3
Provisions for Doubtful Accounts
/Total Loans (2)                        47.3           53.6            48.9
Net Interest Margin/Total Assets (Z)   (29.5)             9.7            8.3
Return on Average Net Worth (2)         (157.7)         25.5            20.1
Operating Expenses/Total Assets (Z)       81.8            9.2            7.3
3.22     With the significant relief resulting from transfer and workout of
old non-performing accounts and its conservative investment policy of the last
two years, DBP's debt to equity ratio is now a very conservative 1.3:1,
compared to the ceiling of 5:1 set under the ERL.
3.23     In 1988, DBP generated net pretax income of P 898 million, compared
to P 800 mil'.ion in 1987. Earnings indicators look impressive: return on
assets is 14.02; return on net worth, 32.32. However, if the sale of DBP's
holdings in Philippine Commercial and Industrial Bank (PCIB), one of its
subsidiaries, is excluded from the calculations, DBP's return on assets drops
to 7.22 and return on net worth to 20 12.
3.24     Nonetheless, this performance is not fully indicative of DBP's long
term earning capability on a going concern basis. Of the total operating
income of 2.6 billion, only 282 is interest from loans, whereas 362 comes from
gains in asset sales and 182 from investment in securities, primarily
Government issues. On the revenue side, this reflects the cautious investment
approach taken in the first year after the financial restructuring, as well as
exceptional gains of P 93' million realized through sales of shares in PCIB.
Moreover, P 42 million of penalty interest on overdues contributed to 1988
earnings; this source of income will decline as more accounts are brought
current in future years. As for expenses, about P 2 billion of interest free
Government deposits, or 192 of total funds, were on DBP's books in early 1987;



- 23 -
as these free deposits are gradually being repaid (the schedule calls for full
repayment by the end of 1989), these funds will have to be replaced with
higher cost funds, which would decrease the spread DBP is realizing. This
combination of factors which reduce revenues and increase expenses will lead
to lower, though still positive, net returns in the future. Detailed
projections of DBP's future financial performance are presented in Annex 3.02
and summarized in Table 3.2. These projections are of an indicative nature,
as the assumptions underlying them are dependent on general macroeconomic
conditions, the development of the local capital market, and the availability
of ODA funds.
Table 3.2: SUMMARY OF DBP'S PROJECTED FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
(P Billion; Ratios in Percent)
Year                                           1989    1990    1991  1992
Wholesale Loans Outstanding                    3.85   13.23  18.03    23.90
Retail Loans Outstanding                       7.51    8.75  11.40    13.72
Total Debt                                     9.45   18.50  24.86    31.93
Total Equity                                   5.94    6.82   7.58      8.63
Ratios:
Debt/Equity                                    1.6       2.7     3.3     3.7
Cash and Due from Banks/Deposits and
Short Term Borrowings (X)                   20.7     27.5    31.5    37.3
Provisions for Doubtful Accounts/
Total Loans (X)                             8.1      3.9      4.0     3.7
Net Interest Margin/Total Assets(Z)            6.6       6.7     6.6     6.4
Return on Average Net Worth (2)               15.1     15.0    12.2    14.6
Operating Expenses/Total Assets (2)            8.3       7.8    10.3    10.2
3.25     Though DBP's performance still has room for improvement, its results
for the last two years show that DBP is now endowed with features that enable
real optimism regarding its future prospects. It has a new management that
has demonstrated a willingness and an ability to make hard decisions; it has
developed a focused strategy and has restructured its organization to
implement that strategy; and it has developed and is implementing improved
controls and procedures. Of equal importance, its operations are to be
governed by a set of policies designed to ensure that it avoids the mistakes
of the past. On April 5, 1989, DBP's Board approved a new Policy Statement
(Annex 3.04) which reflects its wholesale lending orientation and which deals
with inter alia DBP's investment policies, financial prudence limits and
capital structure. Salient features of the Policy Statement provide for:
(a) private sector orientation with autonomy in decision-making; (b) an
interest rate and fees policy that is consistent with prevalent market rates
and that ensures full recovery of all its direct and indirect costs,
including provisions as required, plus an adequate profit margin; (c) prudent
interest rate and maturity match between its assets and liabilities; and
(d) a debt-equity ratio not exceeding 5:1. Barring a deterioration in the
macroeconomic environment, DBP is now poised for growth.



- 24 -
I. Audit
3.26     In addition to the audit performed by the Government Commission on
Audit, a private independent firm audits DBP's annual financial statements.
The independent auditor for 1987, Joaquin Cunanan and Company, a member of the
Price Waterhouse group, qualified its opinion by remarking that the volume of
loans from the National Government, mainly in the context of the transfer of
non-performing assets to the APT, could not be established and audited. DBP
expects that this qualification will be dropped from the 1988 audit. At
negotiations, DBP agreed to furnish to the Bank by June 30 of each year, its
annual financial statements certified by an auditor acceptable to the Bank.
J. The Proposed Loan
3.27     DBP would be the Borrower of the proposed Bank loan and would onlend
the proceeds to MERALCO. As lender to MERALCO, DBP would bear the MERALCO
credit risk. MERALCO would bear the full foreign exchange risk and pay the
commitment fee on the Bank loan as well as other costs related to the proposed
Bank loan.  The terms and conditions of onlending are given in para. 2.12.
3.28     The Subsidiary Loan Agreement between DBP and MERALCO would cover,
inter alia, (i) the procedures to be followed in executing the project;
(ii) adequate arrangements for securing the Loan (para. 3.30); and (iii) the
conditionality to which MERALCO agreed at negotiations (paras. 1.11, 4.16,
5.8, 5.17 and 5.18). The Bank would conduct its project supervision jointly
with DBP.
3.29     As the proposed transaction would lead to DBP exceeding its single
borrower limit, the Bank explored various alternatives for channelling the
Bank funds to MERALCO. The only feasible option which met the requirements of
all parties concerned was for DBP to act as the Borrower with the Government
guaranteeing the loan. Given that the investmnents to be financed by the loan
are needed urgently and that MERALCO is one of the nation's better credit
risks, DBP has sought, on an exceptional basis, a waiver of the single
borrower's limit for purposes of this project. The Monetary Board has
approved the waiver.
3.30     DBP would secure the onlending of the proposed Bank loan with first
mortgage bonds that MERALCO would issue against its Trust Indenture. Taken
together with the first mortgage bonds DBP will receive in connection with a
US$35 million equivalent KfW loan to MERALCO that is being channelled through
DBP, the exercise of rights from the bonds issued in connection with the
proposed loan offers DBP a sound and potent security that mitigates
substantially the MERALCO credit risk.



- 25 -
IV. THE BENEFICIARY
A. Introduction
4.1      The beneficiary of the proposed Bank loan will be the Manila Electric
Company ("MERALCO" or "the Company").  MERALCO is a large corporation owned by
the private shareholders.  The Company was founded as the Manila Electric Rail
and Lighting Company by U.S. interests in the early 19009. It was awarded,
inter alia, a franchise to provide electric service within Metro Manila; this
franchise entitled the Company to own and operate generating stations as well
as distribution facilities within a defined area. In the late 19609, prompted
by Government action for economic reform, ownership of the Company was sold to
local interests; by then, MERALCO had become a full service electric utility
that was well regarded throughout the region. In the late 1970s, in
connection with the Government's reorganization of the power subsector, NPC
purchased most of MERALCO's generation facilities; MERALCO was then recast as
a distribution utility.  In 1982-86, the Company nearly tripled its franchise
area when, at Government's behest, it absorbed the activities of several
failing electric cooperatives along its fringes (para. 5.5); even so, with
about 30% more customers, peak demand and energy sales did not increase (para.
1.8). As a result of (a) an aging rate base; (b) inordinately high system
losses; and (c) poor credit, MERALCO's performance has ;uffered in recent
years.
B. Ownership
4.2      About 98.5% of the company's 43 million shares (following a 702 stock
dividend paid in late 1988) are owned by one institution, the MERALCO
Foundation (the Foundation). The Foundation purchased this stock from the
First Philippine Holdings Corporation (Holdings) using loans that were secured
by the shares themselves and were to be repaid using the company's dividends.
As of August 1987, four financial institutions had about 61Z of the
Foundation's stock pledged to them; the remaining 392, representing shares
that were purchased by the Foundation but for which payment had not been
remitted, continued to be retained by Holdings as collateral to be released
when the payments are eventually made. In turn, Holdings has used the 39? of
shares it holds as collateral to secure borrowings of its own from DBP. In
all, on a post-split basis, DFP retained about 28 million shares or 65.1? of
the outstanding 43 million MERALCO shares as collateral for loans advanced to
both the Foundation and Holdings.
4.3      In January 1987, in accordance with government policy concerning non-
performing assets, DBP transferred these loan accounts, together with the
stock being retained as collateral for these loans, to the Asset Privatization
Trust (APT) for disposition. In mid-1987, Holdings and the Foundation
arranged with a syndicate of banks led by the Bank of the Philippine Islands
and the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company (the BPI-Morgan Group) to purchase from
APT these loans together with the stock being held as collateral, and
liquidate the loans by selling about 20 million MERALCO shares to the public
over a period of three to four years. Under this arrangement, the BPI-Morgan
Group would provide Holdings and the Foundation the bridge financing of P 690
million needed to liquidate the loans held by APT. In return, the MERALCO
shares being held as collateral by APT would be transferred to the BPI-Morgan



- 26 -
Group. The BPI-Morgan Group would then sell the MERALCO shares into the
market; after its financing has been liquidated and it realizes a stipulated
fee based on predetermined thresholds, the BPI-Morgan Group would share with
Holdings and the Foundation, the proceeds from the sale of the remaining
shares. In the process, MERALCO's ownership would become widely dispersed in
a manner consistent with the Government's stated objective.
4.4      This scheme was finally approved by the Government in December 1988
after delays of nearly fifteen months. During that time, the scheme was
reviewed by several statutory and ad hoc committees. Those committees
recommended several adjustments to the scheme, including: (i) Government
receiving, after liquidation of the P690 million principle amount, a 30Z share
in the proceeds from the further sale to the public of the MERALCO stock; and
(ii) shortening of the period during which MERALCO shares would be retained by
the BP:-Morgan Group.  After these changes were agreed by the Foundation,
Holdings and the BPI-Morgan Group, the Government authorized APT to proceed
with the transaction. Currently the shares are being registered for listing
on the various local Stock Exchanges; they are expected to be approved for
listing by mid 1989. At that time, the purchase of the loans together with
the shares from APT will be completed; and the Foundation, Holdings and the
BPI-Morgan Group can begin selling the shares to the public.
4.5      In the course of the various committees' reviews of the
aforementioned scheme, the Government clarified the issues surrounding (i) the
potentially conflicting liens on MERALCO's stock; and (ii) the Company's
ownership. Albeit that the Foundation had collateralized a number of large
obligations with MERALCO's stock, the Foundation retained its rights and
privileges as owner of the shares because neither DBP, Holdings, nor any of
the three other local banks retaining MERALCO shares as collateral for the
Foundation's delinquent obligations ever formally declared the Foundation in
default. Therefore, the Foundation could Pnd did properly exercise its right
to appoint MERALCO's Board and oversee the Company's affairs. Although the
Foundation had been constituted as a non-profit organization acting for the
benefit of MERALCO's consumers, the Government declared that it was better
qualified than any alternative party to act in the best interest of the
Foundation's beneficiaries; therefore, the Government assumed the
responsibility for nominating the Foundation's Board and overseeing the
Foundation's activities. During implementation of the aforementioned scheme,
the Foundation will retain ownership of the shares being offered for sale
until the shares are actually sold. Upon completion of the privatization
scheme, the Foundation will continue to own about 54Z of MERALCO's stock, and
the Government will continue to control the affairs of the Foundation on
behalf of the beneficiaries. These clarifications have satisfactorily
resolved the apprehensions of DBP and the Bank regarding MERALCO's ownership.
C. Organization, Management and Staff
4.6      MERALCO's corporate powers are exercised by its eleven-member Board
of Directors. Although the Foundation, Holdings and DBP have all had claims
on major blocks of MERALCO shares, the Foundation has given considerable
representation to Holdings, DBP and the Government when constituting the
Company's Board in recent years. As a result, the Company has not suffered a



- 27 -
legal challenge to (i) the composition of, (ii) any decision made by, or
(iii) any agreement entered into by, its Board. The present MERALCO Board,
which consists of bankers and businessmen, was endorsed by the shareholders
at the company's 1989 Annual Meeting. Each Board member is elected to serve
until the next Annual Meeting and may be re-elected without limitation.
MERALCO's management is vested in its President, who is himself a Director and
serves as the company's Chief Executive. He is reappointed each year at the
first meeting of the reconstituted Board of Directors following the Annual
Meeting.
4.7      MERALCO's organization chart is presented in Annex 4.01.  The
structure presented therein is appropriate. A profile of staff, allocated
according to organizational group, is presented in Annex 4.02. As of
September 30, 1988, MERALCO had a total staff of 7,034; its 248 customers for
each employee, as of that date, represents steady improvement in that ratio
since 1982.
D. Training
4.8      MERALCO has an ample in-house training program.  The program focuses
on (a) orientation of new staff; (b) skills development for working level and
clerical staff; (c) technical development for engineers and other professional
staff; (d) managerial skills development for (i) existing managers, and (ii)
staff identified as having potential for promotion to managements and (e)
organizational behavior and communications courses and workshops for staff of
specially targeted units. In addition, MERALCO arranges for on-the-job or
external training for deserving staff to cover topics that are not available
in the in-house program. These arrangements are appropriate.
E. Operations, Maintenance and Losses
4.9      While MERALCO has registered some recent declJnes in its forced
interruption frequency rate and its forced cumulative interruption time, it
continues to have considerable scope for improving the quality of its service.
MERALCO's service has suffered as a result of its failure to (a) renew aging
facilities, and (b) extend its system to keep pace with the development of
demand (para. 5.4), and not because of factors relating to operation and
maintenance. In fact, HERALCO has operated and maintained its system
satisfactorily, especially considering its resource constraints in recent
years.
4.10     MERALCO's system losses, which in 1982 averaged about 112 of system
output, reache about 212 in 1986, and then dropped to about 20.8Z in 1987.
This improvemenL strengthened during 1988, so that the company recorded losses
averaging 172 for the year. MERALCO believes that technical losses, which
were about 82 in 1982, increased to the range of about 122; the remaining
losses are believed to result from pilferage and other non-technical causes.
The company has been seeking to reduce technical losses through   (a) the
proposed project, which is expected to strengthen inadequate lines and upgrade
some of its substations; and (b) a second project, being financed by KfW,
which is expected to upgrade its remaining substations. In addition, the



- 28 -
Company is seeking to improve its quality of service by implementing two
projects being financed by OECF: (a) the first project will strengthen
existing distribution networks and build new lines to serve depressed areas in
Metro Manila; and (b) the second project will improve existing networks and
provide new lines in rural areas served by MERALCO. At the same time, MERALCO
is in the midst of implementing an action program, begun in August 1987, aimed
at reducing non-technical losses (para. 5.8 and Annex 5.02). Through various
measures included in this action program and the investments being undertaken
to reduce technical losses, MERALCO aims to reduce its aggregate system
losses to about 122 by 1992.
F. Accounting System
4.11     MERALCO's accounting system is based on accepted power utility
principles and procedures. It was modeled after the Uniform System of
Accounts prescribed for public utilities by the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission of the United States of America, and adapted to suit local
conditions and requirements.
G. Financial Planning and Budgeting
4.12     MERALCO has well staffed units for financial planning and budgeting.
The financial planning unit has developed an integrated computerized financial
model, which it uses primarily to test the impact of investment and financial
decisions and to provide information to external financiers. MERALCO prepares
budgets annually. The budget is revised periodically during the year and
comparisons of actual performance against budget is a regular managerial
exercise.
H. Commercial Systems
4.13     As of September 30, 1988, MERALCO had about 1.7 million customers.
More than 902 of these customers subscribe to residential service; most of the
remaining customers are national or local Government units. MERALCO has about
7,000 customers (0.5Z of its total) with loads of 40 kW or more. These 7,000
consumers, including large Government and commercial as well as industrial
establishments, account for more than 65? of revenues.
4.14     As of appraisal, after deducting receivables deemed uncollectible but
still on the books (about 17? of all private sector receivables), about 90? of
private sector accounts were current. MERALCO follows a policy of disconnect-
ing delinquent private sector customers, with action being taken more quickly
against those with large arrears. In contrast, only about 172 of receivables
from Government sector customers were current. Past efforts to disconnect
delinquent public sector establishments had resulted in adverse consequences;
therefore, the Government has decided to use a clearing-house approach to
settle agreed obligations from public agencies against MERALCO's obligations
to NPC. Agencies of the national Government have so far cooperated with this
approach; however, local Government units, which account for about 60? of
MERALCO's sales to the public sector, have not been as forthcoming in provid-



- 29 -
ing the agreements needed to settle their bills in this manner. The program
for strengthening MERALCO's commercial operations (para. 5.8 and Annex 5.02),
includes measures to address this problem; however, progress in regularizing
these accounts is expected to continue to be slow.
4.15     Through 1986, MERALCO financed the shortfall created, inter alia,
from the slow payment of public sector obligations by stretching its own
obligations to NPC. By September 1987, its arrears to NPC reached P 1.7
billion; and, as a result of Government intercession, the two parties
concluded a rescheduling of those arrears. The terms of that rescheduling
included MERALCO's making cash payments of about P 0.9 billion and issuing a
six-year 17? note for the remainder.  The rescheduling agreement carries
penalties to dissuade MERALCO from failing to meet current obligations.
MERALCO is current with its other obligations and has been meeting its current
obligations to NPC on time since execution of tte rescheduling agreement.
I. Audit
4.16     HERALCO has its annual financial statements audited for inclusion in
its Annual Report and presentation to its Annual Meeting. The audit is
normally performed by a well reputed independent accounting firm, not
necessarily the same one every year. The 1987 statements were audited by
Sycip, Gorres, Velayo and Company, an accounting firm enjoying a strong
professional reputation region-wide. The audit included a review of account-
ing policies and practices, as well as transactions. At negotiations, MERALCO
agreed that, by June 30 of each year, it will furnish to the Bank audited
financial statements for the previous year, together with the certification
and related report prepared by an acceptable auditor.
4.17     MERALCO has an internal audit department.  This unit has broad
responsibilities; yet, its primary activities involve reviewing blocks of
transactions. On a special assignment basis, it will review policies and
practices, systems and procedures, and the operations of specified organiza-
tional offices or units. Inputs to the computerized accounting system are
verified by the internal audit department and reviewed by the external
auditor.
J.  Taxes
4.18     Since February 1987, MERALCO has become liable for income tax,
assessed at 352 of net income. In addition, the company must pay a franchise
tax, assessable at 22 of gross revenues, and real estate taxes. Customs
duties in the range of about 15-302 are assessable on all imports.
K.  Insurance
4.19     MERALCO insures its assets through a combination of self-insurance
and commercially purchased policies. Risk management studies are performed
regularly by divisions responsible for the assets being insured. At
appraisal, these practices were reviewed and found satisfactory.



- 30 -
L. Dividends
4.20     In the 1980s, the Company suspended payment of dividends, first on
common stock and later on preferred stock. During 1987, the Company met its
arrears for preferred stock dividends and has been meeting these obligations
in timely fashion thereafter. Different issues of preferred stock carry
different dividend rates, ranging between 10% and 182. To enhance the
marketability of its shares, MERALCO would like to resume paying dividends on
common stock; and it expects to resume these payments after the conclusion of
1989 if that year is as successful financially as 1987 and 1988 have been.
Under the indenture that it uses to collateralize borrowings, dividends on
common stock cannot exceed the previous year's earnings.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF MERALCO
A. Introduction
5.1      MERALCO maintains its own accounts and manages its own financial
affairs. As such, it has authority to set prices, formulate its investment
program, enter into contract with suppliers of goods and services, and borrow
from foreign, as well as domestic, lenders. However, its financial autonomy
is limited. As a utility, its pricing policy is subject to ERB's approval.
Because of its difficult financial situation, MERALCO has recently been
relying on Government guarantees to raise foreign loans from official and
commercial sources; this dependence gives the Government considerable
influence over MERALCO's investment decisions. Finally, the rescheduling of
its arrears to NPC has resulted in more constraints on MERALCO's financial
freedom.
B. Past and Present Financial Performance
5.2      MERALCO's financial performance for 1984-87 is presented in Annex
5.01 and summarized in Table 5.1.



- 31 -
Table 5.1:  MERALCO'S KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS - 1984-88
Financial Year Ended December 31   1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
----------(Actual)----------   (Proj)
Energy Sales (GWh)                    8,428   7,880   7,938   8,967  10,313
Average Revenue (Ctvs./kWh)             131     180      169     166      160
Capital Expen. (P Million)              562     420      636     702      747
operating Revenue (P Million)        11,029  14,165  13,455  14,843  16,459
Operating Income (P Million)            351     814      950   1,180     985
Net Income (P Million)                (231)    (70)      244     500     694
Rate Base (P Million)                 7,377   9,230  10,504  11,420  12,209
Rate of Return - Revalued Assets       4.762  8.82%   9.041  10.332   9.83?
Debt Service Coverage                   0.06   4.06   11.82    0.98    2.31
Self-Financing Ratio                  -1982     832    2812    -99?    1572
Debt/Debt Plus Equity:
Including Revaluation Reserve         42Z     242     37%      40?     30?
Excluding Revaluation Reserve         632     542     66?      622     46?
Operating Ratio                         972     94?      932     90?     922
Current Ratio                           52?     47?      63?     77?     96?
Accounts Receivable - Months           2.19    2.07    2.08    1.87    1.64
Accounts Payable - Months              1.00    1.52    2.59    0.92    0.80
5.3      Although the key indicators might suggest that the Company was a
strong performer throughout the period, a more detailed analysis indicates
that MERALCO experienced a dramatic turn around toward financial viability in
1987 that continued even more vigorously in 1988, after some years of weak
financial performance characterized by severe liquidity constraints. The
rapid acceleration of technical losses during 1983-86 combined with declines
in the quality of service in those years attests to serious underinvestment
before and during that period. The high Self-financing Ratio realized during
1985-86 resulted from a combination of (i) a constrained investment program;
(ii) a roll-over of short term loans and current maturities of long-term debt,
instead of meeting those obligations when scheduled! and (iii) stretching of
accounts payable to NPC. During 1987 and 1988, the Company began planning and
implementing an investment program while also (i) restructuring its arrears to
NPC; (ii) making timely payments to NPC for its current electricity
purchases; and (iii) meeting its amortization obligations on time. Thus, the
low Self-Financing and Debt Service Coverage Ratios recorded in 1987 are
actually indicators of improving financial viability, given the need to
channel internal cash generation into the front end payments associated with a
return to financial discipline. In fact, the high ratios expected to be
recorded for 1988 indicate remarkable performance in view of the acceleration
of amortization payments due in that year. Given that long term debt
instruments bearing maturities of appropriate length for electric utilities
are not readily available, MERALCO's Debt/Paid in Equity (Equity net of
Revaluation Reserves) should be in the range of 402-50?. The improving trend
in MERALCO's financial performance is confirmed by the drop in that important
ratio from 66? to 46? during 1986-88, indicating that the Company has realized
impressive increases in retained earnings during these two years.



- 32 -
5.4      MERALCO's financial difficulties began in the mid-1970s, when the
Foundation purchased some sizable blocks of stock from other shareholders
(para. 4.2) and financed these purchases with borrowings, the repayment of
which was to be met from dividends. While these transactions did not infuse
any new equity capital into the Company, they did result in increasing the
pressures on the Company to pay dividends. At the same time, margins declined
because growth in demand was lower than expected; thus, dividends were paid,
on occasion in lieu of making necessary investments.  This began a pattern of
undercapitalization that prevented MERALCO's system from expanding in parallel
with demand growth and caused the quality of its service to decline.
5.5      In 1983-84, the Government pressed MERALCO into absorbing the
businesses of several failing cooperatives along the fringes of its franchise
area.  As a result, W'RALC0 needed to raise substantial investment finance
just when it was unable to raise loans with appropriate longer maturities,
either on its own credit or with Government guarantees, or raise sufficient
amounts of equity capital in depressed domestic capital markets. To solve
this problem, the Company chose to borrow extensively for short and medium
terms from local and foreign commercial banks.
5.6      In the meantime, MERALCO's quality of service continued to decline.
Technical losses rose sharply (para. 4.10), and outages remained high. At the
same time, collections slowed. In effect, the business was increasingly
inefficient at producing cash. Although a return to financial discipline
should have begun with the rescheduling of the Company's outstanding loans,
neither the former Government nor MERALCO's top management were prepared to
support the initiatives needed to bring pilferage and consumer delinquency
under control. As a result, faced with heavy cash requirements and restricted
in its access to short term borrowings, the Company generated cash by delaying
its payments to NPC for power purchases. By the end of 1986, MERALCO was
obligated for a restructured loan of US$148 million owed to a group of banks
headed by the Bank of Montreal, with the first of 17 unequal quarterly
payments due in December 1987. At the same time, arrears to NPC reached about
P 1.7 billion, or two months billings over and above current charges.
5.7      In 1987, after changes in both the Government and MERALCO's top
management, the Company faced the inevitable need for financial discipline.
Programs were developed and implemented to address the problems of increasing
non-technical losses and accounts receivable; by the end of 1987, those two
problems had stabilized. In 1988, substantial improvement was re.orded in
both of these areas. Amortization payments were met, reducing the balance
outstanding on the restructured loan to US$141 million at the end of 1987 and
US$112 million at the end of 1988. MERALCO rescheduled its arrears to NPC,
making various front end payments aggregating P 915 million by September 30,
1987, and issuing six year first-mortgage bonds for the .emaining P 800
million. As importantly, the Company has since then been paying its current
bills for power purchases on time.
5.8      Recognizing the special importance of MERALCO's service, the Govern-
ment has evolved a policy of enabling MERALCO to reverse the harm of under-
investment by providing it with ausrantees for borrowings from official
lenders; however, the Government wants the Company to continue its positive



- 33 -
actions towards financial discipline. The Bank supports this approach.
MERALCO expects to continue strengthening its commercial and operational
practices. In August 1987, the Company began to implement an action program,
acceptable to the Government and to the Bank, tot (a) reduce losses:
(b) maintain accounts receivables at existing or improved levels; and
(c) remain current in meeting its accounts and debt service payable. That
action program is given in Annex 5.02. At negotiations, MERALCO agreed to
continue implementing that actiGn program throughout the per'!od of project
implementation. MERALCO will also be expected to increase its capital by
selling substantial new equity, and thereby develop for itself the capacity to
borrow as much as it would need for financing satisfactory levels of
investment. To support this objective, MERALCO has furnished to the Bank an
action program for increasing its proportion of permanent capital (through the
sale of new common and preferred stock) during the period 1989-93 (Annex 5.01
and Table 5.2).
C. Tariff
5.9      MERALCO's tariff includes:  (a) two lifeline blocks to enable
domestic and small commercial consumers to purchase initial amounts of energy
at subsidized rates; (b) a generation charge, related to its cost of
purchasing power from NPC; (c) an adjustment to the generation charge to allow
MERALCO to recover from the consumer the cost of purchasing from NPC
increments of energy that were subsidized or lost; (d) a distribution charge,
related to its own system operation and administrative costs: and (e) an
exchange rate adjustment. MERALCO's charter allows the company to set rates
at levels that cover operating costs (including depreciation) and provide a
maximum rate of return of 122 on revalued net fixed assets. HERALCO's average
revenue of about US 7.8 per kWh is currently higher than most other utilities
in the region; however, this level of revenues includes generous blocks being
supplied to residential and small commercial consumers at highly subsidized
rates.   As a result, poorer consumers receive considerable amounts of
electricity at affordable rates. In the meantime, industrial and large
commercial consumers, who are cross-subsidizing the brunt of the lifeline
blocks, are paying very high rates by regional standards. The Government has
asked MERALCO to reduce to levels consistent with what has been evaluated as
the minimum requirement the amount of power being sub idized; in turn, any
savings resulting from those reductions would be passe] on to the higher
paying consumers. The resultant level of rates was reviewed at appraisal and
found appropriate.
5.10     To implement the new Government policy of marginal cost pricing
(para. 1.23), MERALCO will be adjusting its rate structure after NPC has
promulgated its own adjustments. The new tariff will likely have three
predominant features aimed at ensuring that more consumers pay for electricity
at rates that reflect long run marginal cost: (a) the subsidized portion of
MERALCO's rates will be reduced substantially over several years; (b) the rate
structure will continue to be based on NPC's, with an added distribution
component designed to meet MERALCO's financial costs and provide an adequate
rate of return; and (c) MERALCO will only be able to recover from the consumer
losses based on an efficiency indicator (currently expected to be 152).
Because the new formula will provide MERALCO with the incentive it currently



- 34 -
lacks to operate efficiently, the expected adjustments are viewed as an
improvement over the current tariff.
5.11     MERALCO normally resets the adjustments every month automatically in
accordance with parameters published in its tariff; however, it must obtain
ERB's approval for changes in either the basic rate or the formulas for
adjustments. Whenever MERALCO asks for a tariff increase, ERB conducts its
own professional review of the proposal and then holds public hearings at
which MERALCO's right to a rate of return as high as 122 is balanced against
the public interest and Government policy. In this case, the regulatory
process appears to function appropriately. At negotiations, the Government
gave an undertaking that, in future regulatory reviews of tariff proposals,
MERALCO's financial requirements will continue being cons dered.
D. Revaluation of Assets
5.12     MERALCO revalues its assets yearly following an acceptable
.aethodology. Prior to 1988, the revaluation was made in memorandum form and
only taken into the books of accounts in conjunction with requests for tariff
increases; however, beginning with 1988, the revaluation will be taken into
the books annually. Either practice is approptiate and acceptable; still,
MERALCO's new methodology of booking the revaluation annually is preferable.



- 35 -
E. Financing Plan
5.13     MERALCO's financing plan for 1989-93, the period of expected
expenditure on the proposed project, is presented in Table 5.2.
Table 5.2:  MERALCO'S FINANCING PLAN - 1989-93
P Million        $ Million        Percent
Sources of Funds                        20,752            988              100
Operations (Net of W.C. Reqs.)          14,262            679               69
Preferred Stock Issues - Net                (80)           (4)              -
Common Stock Issues                        850             40                4
Long Term Borrowings:
= Bond Issues                          1,550             74                7
World Bank                            1,380             66                7
_ KfW                                    760             36                4
- IFC                                    672             32                3
= OECF                                 1,172             56                5
Other Borrowings                           186              9                1
Applications of Funds                   20,752            988              100
Construction Expenditurest
- World Bank Project                   2,056             98               10
- Other Works                          7,555            360               36
Debt Service                             8,415            400               41
Repayment of Notes Payable                 730             35                4
Dividends                                1,996             95                9
The proposed project represents 222 of MERALCO's investment program for the
period. The proposed Loan accounts for about 72 of its financing requirement
for the period. During 1988, IFC approved a loan to MERALCO of US$32 million
equivalent (P 672 million equivalent). MERALCO expects that this loan will be
disbursed fully during 1989-91. In addition, IFC has indicated that it might
be interested in taking a lead role in placing with other investors future
MERALCO issues of common stock or equivalent permanent equity instruments.
5.14     During this period, MERALCO expects internal cash generation to meet
about 69? of its aggregate financing requirement. Most of this internally
generated cash will be used to meet debt service requirements; as a result
MERALCO is expecting to self-finance only about 32Z of its investment program.
The Company expects to meet more than 90? of its foreign exchange requirements
for capital expenditures vith loans, the bulk of which it expects to raise by



- 36 -
borrowing from the Bank, KfW, IFC and OECF (providing 7Z, 42, 32 and 52
respectively, of MERALCO's financing requirement for the period). MERALCO is
expecting to meet 42 of its total financing requirement with equity, including
about P 850 million from new sales of common stock (or the equivalent) while
retiring about P 80 million of redeemable preferred stock. The remaining 72
of its financing needs would be raised from bonds or other local instruments.
To use the tariff's currency exchange rate adjustment to best advantage,
HERALCO is planning to expense interest during construction.
F. Future Financial Performance
5.15          Financial projections for 1988-95 are presented In Annex 5.01.  A
summary of key financial indicators is given in Table 5.3.
Table S.8: MERALCO S KEY FINAL IICATORS - 1987-95
Financial Year Ended                 1988       1989       199        1991       1992       199J       1994        199S
December 31           ----------------------------------------(Projections)--------------------------------------------
Energy Sales (OWh)                      10.313     11.504     12.860     13.310     14.340     15,420     16,530     17.690
Avere Revenue (Ctv./k)                     160        163       le         173        160        187        190        193
Capital ixp en. (P   Ion)                  747      1,835      2.254      2.198      1,954      1,930      1.992     2.341
Operating Revenue
(P Hi II Ion)                         16.459     18.779     20.542    23,020      2S.812    28,6835    81.407     84.142
Operating Incose
(P HiII ion)                             "5      1.100      1.,22      1,S8W     2,020      2.642      2.824      2.997
Not In o.*/(1.a) (P Hl li on)              694        712        993      1,520      1,780      2,528     2,776      3.014
Rate b   (P s IIlion)                   12,209     14.186     16.731     19.434    22 112    24 ,744    27,895    80 155
Tote  at   (P Milliln)                  14,643     l6,632     19.339    21.670    24.1t8       27.460    3.480    860026
R etained  Earning. (P Ni l lIon)        2,426      3,248      4,853      6,070      8 145     11.102     14.463    18,202
Financial Ratio.:
Current ratio                           0.96       1.1s       0.96       1.21       1.42       2.09       2.69      8.20
Debt/rotal Cspiual
W/ Reval. Surplus                      301        26S        2S3        22m        193        174        14t       12S
W/o Raval. Surplus                     4611       Se9n       341        82         271        24S        19i       1511
quick ratio                             0.87       1.01       0.85       1.06       1.24       1.85       2.48      2.94
Nat profit argin                          4S         4t         5i         7S         71         91        9S         91
Interest coverage                       1.58       1.60       2.05       2.82       8.90       7 62      11.40     17 65
Return en rate bass                    9.683      7.786      9.483     10.8311   10.013      11.1911    10.65t     10.163i
Debt service eoverage ratio             2.81       1.82       1.87       1.85       2.72       3.47       6.46      8.46
Self-financln? ratio                    157i         II         O3        323        67S       1313i      *70       1663
Operating rat o                          92S        92S        921        891S       871       853        q5         651
Accounts r eeivable - month-            1.64       1.55       1.54       1.48       1.43       1.86       1.85       1.82
Accounts payable - months               0.80       0.71       0.74       0.72       0.69       0.68       0.66      0.65
These projections are based on t;.c followings
(a) The Company has not yet succeeded, despite substantial effort, in
refinancing its outstanding foreign loans; therefore, the projections
presume that those loans will not be refinanced;
(b) MERALCO generally applies to ERB for increases in its distribution
charges once every two to three years. Therefore, to ensure that the
Company's charges are adequate to meet its financial performance
targets in years when it does not apply for increases, the increases
themselves are projected to be large enough to yield financial
performance that exceeds the agreed targets in the years when they
are granted; and



- 37 -
(c) Under the Indenture Trust that MERALCO uses as security for its
borrowings (para. 3.30), the Company is required to meet financial
performance targets different from those that will sought in
conjunction with the proposed loan. Those different targets include
interest coverage, divided limitation and various operating and
liquidity ratios.  Through 1993, the projections in general as well
as the increases in the distribution charge are designed to meet the
targets contained in the indenture trust as well as those to which
agreement was reached at negotiations (para. 5.17 and 5.18).
5.16     These results indicate that MERALCO is facing several years of
adjustment on its road to financial recovery. During 1989-91, it expects to
face tight cash flow while (i) completing the projects needed to restore its
system; (ii) taking the steps needed to improve its operational and financial
efficiency; and (iii) repaying its outstanding restructured loans to both the
Bank of Montreal syndicate and NPC. The cash flow stringency is expected to
be especially severe in 1989-90. In those years, MERALCO's self-financing
ratio is expected to be zero and its debt service coverage ratio is expected
to be slightly above 1.0. MERALCO has already secured most of the external
financing needed and is in advanced stages of developing the remaining
adjustments or external finance needed to meet its 1989-90 cash requirements.
Assuming the Company performs in 1989-91 as expected, the projections for the
post-1991 period indicate a properly capitalized, profitable company with
ample scope to finance an appropriate investment program.
5.17     During the projection period, MERALCO expects to follow a policy of
seeking rate increases aimed at meeting the 122 rate of return allowed under
its charter. Based on NPC's rates remaining consistent with current levels,
continuing this policy implies that MERALCO's distribution charge per kWh
would increase at a compound annual rate of about 62, somewhat less than
inflation projected for the period, to about 502 above current levels. To
encourage this policy while acknowledging the inevitability of delays in
matching cost increases with tariff increases, at negotiations, MERALCO agreed
that it will maintain its annual operating revenues at levels sufficient to
realize, after meeting operating costs (including depreciation) and taxes, an
82 rate of return on revalued net fixed assets in operation. After 1993, this
rate of return implies that MERALCO would accumulate levels of cash that ERB
could consider excessive. As a result, an undertaking was provided that,
after January 1, 1993, MERALCO could request that DBP, MERALCO and the Bank
conduct a joint review of the continuing appropriateness of the rate of return
target, with the prospect that the target itself could be adjusted according
to the consensus reached during that review.
5.18     The projections also assume that MERALCO will collect its receivables
effectively and pay its bills on time. Still, MERALCO is expecting to
generate cash sufficient to enable an average self-financing ratio of only
about 102 during the period 1989-91, and more than 802 thereafter; during
1989-91, debt service coverage is expected to average about 1.3, rising to
much more substantial levels thereafter. To raise new equity capital, the
Company will reed to resume the timely payment of dividends; however, the
extent of these payments is limited by MERALCO's Indenture Trust. To
encourage efficient cash and debt management as well as sound dividend policy,



- 38 -
at negotiations, MERALCO agreed that it may incur additional debt only if a
reasonable forecast of its net revenues after expenditures for each year
during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.0 times its
projected debt service requirement in 1989-91, and 1.3 times its projected
debt service requirement thereafter. These targets, which are somewhat below
MERALCO's expectations provide some cushion in the event that (i) tariff
increases are either lower or approved later than expected, or (ii) MERALCO
encounters cash flow distortions as a result of succeeding in its efforts to
refinance its existing foreigr. loans.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Design Optimization
6.1      Planning for MERALCO's Investment Program has been done in the
context of a ten-year time horizon. Expansion of the transmission and
distribution facilities is based on a methodogically sound load forecast and
the franchise area's industrial development program. The upgrade and
rehabilitation components aim at reducing transmission and distribution losses
while enhancing system reliability. The performance indices used to establish
the need for these projects are: (a) line loading should be less than 752 on
an interconnected system, or less than 85Z on an isolated system; (b) the
allowable voltage drop should be less than 1O on industrial and commercial
circuits; (c) the interruption frequency rate should be less than 30 times per
circuit per year, with less than 30 hours total cumulative interruption time
per year; (d) circuit kilometer exposure should be less than 50 km on all
circuits; (e) there should be no unserved demand during the outage of a power
transformer on priority industrial and commercial circuits; and (f) technical
losses should be less than 82 throughout the distribution system.
6.2      Capacity optimization simulations for Metro Manila's complex
transmission and distribution networks were run on a Feeder Routing
Optimization Program, using several alternatives. A load forecasting program
was then used to simulate the ten-year period. This iterative method was
repeated until the optimum combination was reached, which ensured the least-
cost alternative for the Metro Manila system expansion.
6.3      Voltage drop calculations for the high load density areas of Manila
were made utilizing CAPCAD software, while the approximate method of voltage
calculation for the low density areas was programmed using more elementary
software. Where the voltage drop was found to exceed the limit, new
substations or feeder facilities were added. However, where the voltage drop
exceeded the permissible limit even while system capacity remained adequate
for the load, the less costly solution of installing capacitors and voltage
regulators was chosen.
6.4      The method used to analyze the flexibility of the system was to
simulate individual line and power transformer bank outages in the system and
then compute the unserved demand arising from the outages of that component.
Since there should be no unserved demand on priority industrial and commercial



- 39 -
circuits due to the outage of a power transformer, distribution feeders have
been appropriately sectionalized to allow maximum load transfer during faults
in one section without excessive overloading of the sections remaining in
service.
6.5      MERALCO's technical loss target for 1992 is 82.  The strategy of
raising distribution voltages and locating substations near the load centers
is designed to achieve a substantial reduction in the level of technical
losses as these projects get implemented. Quantifying technical losses for
the Metro Manila area was done utilizing the CAPCAD program, while
calculations for the low load density areas were done using a simple formula
programmed on PCs. The loss reduction was calculated by comparing the
technical losses with and without the project. The resulting difference
between the two scenarios yielded the technical loss reduction benefit derived
for the proposed project.
6.6      Apart from the transmission and distribution investment, the project
has other components, including improvement of system operation monitoring and
control and provision of maintenance facilities, which are needed for
improving MERALCO's operational and institutional efficiencies. Thus, the
proposed project constitutes an integrated approach to strengthening the
transmission and distribution facilities; rehabilitating and upgrading some of
the old facilities; and improving the technical, commercial and financial
performance of MERALCO's transmission and distribution system.
B. Economic Rate of Return
6.7      The proposed project consists of a number of components which form an
integral part of MERALCO's total investment program, covering its entire
franchise area. Most major transmission and distribution investments in the
MERALCO area are interrelated, and yield joint benefits of loss reduction and
incremental supply to consumers.  For this reason, the MERALCO investment
program for 1989-93 is evaluated as a whole, rather than attempting to isolate
individual components artificially.
6.8      Investment costs during the 5-year time slice of MERALCO's program
are valued in border prices or their equivalents, applying a standard
conversion factor and shadow wage rates as appropriate. Operating and
maintenance costs are based on MERALCO's records and amount to about 2Z of new
asset value. The cost of power supply to the MERALCO system is the long-run
marginal cost of NPC supply in the Luzon grid, adjusted for the demand pattern
in the MERALCO franchise area.  Recent preliminary NPC estimates indicate a
LRMC of about P 0.97/kWh at high-voltage supply points to MERALCO. System
losses, including technical and non-technical losses, are assumed to decline
gradually to 142 in 1993.
6.9      Tariff revenues, projected to reflect the restructuring by mid-1989,
are used as proxy for the benefits accruing to consumers from incremental
electricity consumption. In MERALCO's urban setting, with a long-established
supply system in place, and a stock of consumers well conditioned to the
availability of reliable electricity supply, this approach is adequate to
establish a close approximation of consumers' valuation of supply. However,



- 40 -
an element of consumers' surplus exists which would increase the benefit per
kWh sold. The strong demand growth makes advisable limiting benefits to
incremental sales, as any loss reduction savings yielded by specific
investments are absorbed by the net growth.
6.10     The internal rate of return (IRR) of the 1989-93 investment program,
yielding incremental sales benefits with a one-year time lag, is about 322;
this reflects the high economic priority of transmission and distribution
system strengtheAng under circumstances of strong demand pressure. The IRR
is very sensitive to changes in the LRMC of power supply and in the value of
sales, but not to variations in the investment cost. Because the level of its
charges are already so close to LRMC, NPC's supply price is not likely to
change by more than 10? in real terms; however, the final bulk supply LRMC
rate structure is still quite uncertain. On the benefits side, although
energy demand was severely affected by the decline in GDP recorded during
1984-86, current economic projections indicate healthy GDP growth in the
medium term, and the risk of sustained demand growth reduction is very small.
Any reduction in demand growth for the period would not likely be so severe as
to depress benefits by more than 10Z. An increase in the LRMC by 10? reduces
the IRR to 22?, a similar decreaase in sales would bring a reduction to 18X.
If both deviations occurred simultaneously and were sustained for a long
period, the IRR would fall to 5?, well below the opportunity cost of capital
(Annex 6.01). However, such a scenario is very unlikely.
C. Benefits and Risks
6.11     The benefits of the project, as an integral component of the
optimized MERALCO investment program, are primarily (i) the enhancement of the
reliability of supply to existing consumers; (ii) the decrease of system
losses to achieve greater efficiency in transmission and distribution; and
(iii) the provision of additional distribution capacity to satisfy strongly
growing demand.  While the reliability increase affects consumers' quality of
supply and diminishes economic losses from outages or voltage fluctuations,
the loss reduction and capacity additions enable increases in electricity
sales at least cost.
6.12     The project faces no substantial physical risk in implementation.
Acquisition of land and rights-of-way for substations and transmission lines
is not expected to cause any serious problems, as most of the transmission
lines are either second circuits of existing systems or new lines
supplementing existing distribution networks. However, as a result of its
liquidity constraints, MERALCO could have difficulty realizing counterpart
funds and, thereby, keeping to the project implementation schedule. The
restructuring that MERALCO has agreed to implement (and is assumed in the
financial convenants) is a major step toward minimizing these risks.



- 41 -
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1      Agreements regarding the following items were reached during
negotiationst
(a) By December 1 of each year, MERALCO would (i) conduct jointly with
the Bank and DBP a review of its investment program for the next five
years ane2 its investment accomplishments for the previous two years,
and (ii) adopt the mutually acceptable recommendations from those
reviews (para. 1.11).
(b) DBP will furnish to the Bank, by June 30 of each year, its annual
financial statements, certified by an auditor acceptable to the Bank
(para. 3.26).
(c) MERALCO will furnish to the Bank, by June 30 of each year, audited
financial statements for the previous year, together with the
certification and related report prepared by an acceptable auditor
(para. 4.16).
(d) MERALCO will continue implementing an action program, acceptable to
the Government and to the Bank, to (a) reduce losses; (b) maintain
accounts receivable at existing or improved levels; and (c) remain
current in meeting its obligations to suppliers and lenders
(para. 5.8).
(e) MERALCO will maintain its annual operating revenues at levels
sufficient to realize, after meeting operating costs (including
depreciation) and taxes, a 8X rate of return on revalued net fixed
assets in operation (para. 5.17).
(f) MERALCO would incur additional debt only if a reasonable forecast of
its net revenues after expenditures for each year during the term of
the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.0 times its projected
debt service requirement in 1989-91, and 1.3 times its projected debt
service requirement thereafter (para. 5.18).
7.2      The following undertakings were included as sections in the minutes
of negotiations:
(a) The Government warranted that, in future regulatory reviews of tariff
proposals, MERALCO's financial requirements will continue being
considered (para. 5.11);
(b) After January 1, 1993, MERALCO could request that DBP, MERALCO, and
the Bank conduct a joint review of the continuing appropriateness of
the rate of return target (para. 7.1 (e)), with the prospect that the
target itself could be adjusted according to the consensus reached
during that review (para. 5.17).



- 42 -
7.3      The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between DBP and MERALCO
that shall have been reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank, is a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (para. 2.12).
7.4      On the basis of the aforementioned agreements, the project
constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$65.5 million equivalent to
be lent to DBP. This loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years
of grace on repayment of principal, and carry the standard variable interest
rate.



- 43 -                          ANNEX 1.01
PHILIPPINES
MANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Load Forecast for the Luzon Grid
Sales
level        Generation level              Assumptions
Energy      Energy       Demand       factor       Losses /a
(GWh)       (GWh)         (HW)         (2)            (7)
Actual
1980                12,164       13,115        2,074        72.2         7.25
1981                12,687       13,666        2,225        70.1         7.16
1982                13,121       14,398        2,364       69.5          8.87
1983                13,908       15,294        2,478        70.5         9.06
1984                13,245       14.655        2,374        70.5         9.62
1985                13,135       14,449        2,311        71.4         9.09
1986                13,461       14,756        2,435       69.2          8.78
1987                14,967       16,281        2,592        71.7         8.07
Z growth rate
(1983-87)           2.67         2.49        1.86         -            -
Forecast
1988                16,015       17,580        2,799        71.7         8.90
1989                17,136       18,810        3,023        71.0         8.90
1990                18.336       20,127       '3,265        70.4         8.90
2 growth rate
(1988-90)           7.00         7.32        8.00         -            -
1991                19,711       21,637        3,510        70.4         8.90
1992                21,189       23,259        3,773        70.4         8.90
1993                22,778       25,003        4,056        70.4         8.90
1994                24,486       26,878        4,360       70.4          8.90
1995                26,322       28,894        4,687        70.4         8.90
Z growth rate
(1991-95)           7.50         7.50        7.50         -            -
1996                28,296       31,060        5,039        70.4         8.90
1997                30,418       33,390        5,417        70.4         8.90
1998                32,699       35,894        5,823        70.4         8.90
1999                35.151       38.585        6,260        70.4         8.90
2000                37,787       41,479        8,730        70.4         8.90
2001                40,621       44.589        7.235        70.4         8.90
2002                43,668       47,934        7,778        70.4         8.90
2 growth rate
(1996-2002)         7.50         7.50        7.50         -            -
(1988-2002)         7.38         7.46        7.62         -
00-^04" ,iq  4raqnmisqjon lnss and pumping loss.



Lod Fo...ca. for Uh. ihi_  ,ac,-           *0-7
tt s*1a4          Pe"         LOW    gr,
M.t.. of '-'s      '"'                                                    m.a I1                               inpt            1oad       fantwo   I_
Ra.l I       Cam'l  9  Zad' I        Others  S      t.i    s      a'S    U   Coa'I     la1I   S  OWNar"   S    Tal          s     (WS)       s                 (I)     C
1967               1.529           I9          4          a           1.696         3,046        2.7t         2.0            as         6.967         11.367         1.9,         67.6   20.a
Crowth rote (a)      5.5           7.0        6.6       31.S           5.7            7.9         10.5         15.9         1.6          1122           10.6            . s        4.2   (1.0
so9"               1.611   5.4    166  4.0    4  6.5    a  7.6    1.765  S 3    3.282  7.8  3.39  14.1  3.305 15.6    87 4.6   10.072  12.3   12,266  7.2   2.094 6.9   66.4    17.0
1969               1,692   5.0    171  3.0    4  4.7    4  5.0    1.671  4.6    3.53S  7.7  3.616  12.3  3.72 13.6           9  4.    11,202  11.2   13,001  6 7   2.249 7.4   e.o 0       s1.
199o               1.773   4.S    176  3.3    B  4.2    4  5.2    L.O6W  4.7    3,769   7.2  4. 17  9.7  4.162 10.6    96 5.1   12,233   9.2   13.954   7.3   2.420 6.0   65.6   L2.0
1991               1.6"    4.6   l1s  5.6    5  4.4    4  5.3    2.046  4.5    4.076  7.6  4.591  9.6  4.602 10.6    0oo 4.8   1.369   9.3   14.909  6.6   2.6  7.3   65.3    10.0
1992               1.936   4.5    190  5.9    5  4.6    4  5.4    2,137  4 4    4,376  7.4  4.978  6.4  5,027 9.2    104 4.7   14.466   8 4   15.975  7.2   2.M   6.3    5.6    9.0
Growth rate (3)
199211967          4.9           3.6        4.9        5.r           .5.7           7.6         10.6         11.9         4.8          10.1            7.0           7.6        (0-S)  (15.4
1993               2,019   4.2    196  3.4    5  4.0    4  4.5    2.226  4.1    4.697  7.8  5.401  6.5  5,497 9.4    109 4 5   15,704   8.4   17.316   8 4   2.99s 6.1   ".0               90 
1994               2 100   4.0    202  3.0    5  3.5    a  3.6    2.312  3.9    5,02t  7.0  5.64   8.3 a       .077 s .6    114 4.3   11.970   8.1   16,712  6.0   3.207 7.1  6U.          9.0
1995               2.1S0   3.6    207  2.6    6  3.0    5  3.3    2.96  3.7    6.370  6.6  6CM6  S.2  6.476 6.8   1I1  4.1   18.293   7.6   20.169   7 a   3.442 7.3   6.9                 9.0
1996               2.268   3.6    212  2.3    6  2.6    5  2.9    2.461  3.5    5.721  6.5  6.*,6  6.0  6.992 7.9   123 4.0   19.671   7.6   21.666   7.5   3.s4 7.0   67.2               9.0
1997               2.335   3.4    216  1.9    6  2.2    5  2.6    2.662  3.8    6.076  6.2  7?.57  7.6  7.50D 7.5    1tt 3.6   21.06l   7.2   2s.242  7.2   3,931 6.7   57.5               9.0
Greowt rat. (U)
1997/I1M9          3.a           2.6        3.1        3.4           S.7            6.6          6.1          6.4         4.1           7.8            7.6           7.2         0.5     0.0
1997/1967          4.3           3.1        4.0        4.6           4.2            7.2          9.5         10.2         4.5           6.9            7.4           7.4         0.0    (.0o
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNE 2 01
-45   -                                        Pos 1 of 2
PPILIPPINE
iMXILA POWV  DISTRIWTION P      hSA
Detai led Description of the Proiect
Eat. qnual
*oduction
; n l ol-
NXMw                                 Content                               Objectivo               1fh   PO0O0
.Subtranaalaa;on Linac and Subatationa
A. NV Transgassion Lines.
tlS kV
1. Construction of the         Construct 3.2 km eingl-eircuit        Relieve lln  overloading. iUpr,vo       246     251
Salint-aek leg of           line on steel poles (SC-SP) to        reliabillty, reduce losses.
Marikine-Novalichee-        replace present 1-500 "CM ACSR
Salintemak line             conductor by 1-795 iKCF ACSR con-
ductor
2. Construction of NOC-        Construct 7 km, single circuit on   Rainforce exieting lin- to pro-         5,026   5,127
Parang line, end            steel poles (SC-SP) with 1-795        vide aIternative feed and improve
expansion of HOC *ubat-   HOI ACSR, *nd awitching bays at         reliability.
tion, Pereng substation    the tereinal aubstations.
3. Rebuilding of Arsn-ta-      Replace 1.6 km of 2-336.4 MMCF        Relieve line overloading.               936     955
St. mea" line               ACSR by 2-105 HCM ACSR por phase.   strengthen 5uoport for the lines,
Revpie* wood pol-e (VP) with         reduce lose".
steel poles (SP).
4. Construction of  xardner-   Construct 15 kh  of SC-SP with        Reinforce existing line to pro-       6.649   6.06f
KCRPt lfine, nd             2-795 MMCF ACVj per phe, and          vide additional power outlet from
expan-ion of  arJdner and   awitching boys at the terminal        Sucat and Celeac Unit 2 (when
W-CRRPI eubstations         substations.                          completed), improve reliability,
reduce oases.
5. Rebuilding of C rdner-      Replace 11.9 km of SC-VP  with        Relieve line overloading,               640     658
Psaplona line.              1-795 M1C  ACSR on SP.                strengthen support for the lines,
reduce losses.
6. Construction of ginan-      Construct 5.1 km of SC-SP. 1-795    Reinforce  xiating line, relieve    I,m    1,860
Salibego line, and          MOr ACSR per phase. and smitching   overloading, reduce Iosaas.
expansion of Sinan and      bays at the terainal substations.
Ssl ibago ubstations
S. Subgtation Proiecta (15)
W-CCRRPI, C lalun, Taysbas,     Conatruct substationo with            Meet power upply requireanta in  65,000  66,500
Ou;guinto, Parang, Araneta,    transformere, switching bysy,          the ares, relieve ovorloading.
Ortega-. Salintwak              switchgeors, *asociated cables        provide alternate sources of
Switchboard espansion, San      and controls, connecting lines        power, ;mprove reliability, and
Miguel, Los Ssnos, Sante         including reconductoring;            increase operational flexibility;
Crux. Ayals-Albang, Lgapui   installing capacitors where              reduce distribution locaes.
VMilage/SR-Peranequo. and       necesa ry, and wmtering
Kayb;ig.                        facilitias.



- 46 -
P3g 2 of 2
at. *annual
reductlon
Re"                                  Content                               Objective               tWb   Plow
IL   U-eroding of Otributlon
Priority projects for strengthen-   Provide cegacity for load growth,  6,399   0.719
Ina the dit.sibution system in       improve system reliability,
year. 1990-93 tncludting             reduce losses.
-  converslon to higher  ,lttage;
- reconductoring of lines;
- new power eourcew;
- power fector improvewt:
- reconfiguration of feeders end
eectionuliaing; end
- rehabilitation of lines.
-  iprovent of metering
faciIities.
III. R1dio.4t*lti;rea Eseilitiea     Rebabtiltetlon and expansion of       Iprove mystes operstion and
exieting coaunication                control.
facilitie7, Including:
- S3 sets radio-multiplex
equipment;
- voice frequency telegraph
System.
-  aontoring systes for remote
subatention-;
- ante tao, cables. and
acceeor i so.
IV. Maintenancae  Euipment and      Purchseb   of esentiol spares and    Revitalize esintenarce
I.hjeMla                      mecbmnized vehicle  comprising:       capabilities.
- Power transformers;
- cepeItors'
- owi tchor;
- circuit breaker.'
- crene
- Basket truc.s and Derrick
trucke;
-  Wrecker.



47-                           ANNEX 2.02
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
MANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost
(US$ million)
Item                                                      Local  Foreign   Total
I.    Subtransmission Lines and Substations
A. High-Voltage Transmission Lines, 115 kV
Upgrade Marikina-Novaliches-Balintawak line        0.65    0.54     1.19
Strengthen NGC-Parang line                         1.91    1.57     3.48
Rebuild Araneta-Santa Mesa line                    0.36    0.29     0.65
Strengthen Gardner-MCCRRP1 line                    3.52    3.68     7.20
Rebuild Gardner-Pamplona                           2.77    2.18     4.95
Strengthen Binan-Balibago line                    1.18    1.05      2.23
Subtotal                                      10.39    9.31    19.70
B.  Substation Proiects
ICCRRP1 subtransmission and distribution           1.56    1.80     3.36
Calauan 200 MVA, 2301115 kV substation             0.91    1.33     2.24
Tayabas 100 MVA, 230/115 k' substation and
distribution                                    1.40    1.65      3.05
Guiguinto 230/115 kV substaion and distribu-
tion                                            4.86    4.60      9.45
Parang subtransmission and distribution           2.32    2.14      4.46
Araneta 2501115 kV substation                      0.92    2.41     3.33
Ortigas subtransmission and distribution          2.24    1.95      4.19
Balintawak 230/115 kV substation                  1.83    1.32      3.15
San Miguel subtransmission and distribution       0.37    0.27      0.64
Los Baffos subtransmission and distribution       0.33    0.26      0.59
Santa Cruz subtransmission and distribution       0.35    0.27      0.62
Ayala-Alabang subtransmission and distribution   1.03    1.01       2.04
Legaspi Village/Forbes Park subtransmission
and distribution                                2.70    2.09      4.79
Sucat BF Paranaque subtransmission and distri-
bution                                          2.42    2.23      4.65
Kaybiga subtransmission and distribution          0.67    0.73      1.40
Subtotal                                      23.91   24.06    47.97
Total Base Cost                               34.30   33.37    67.67
Physical contingencies                               3.34    3.34     6.77
Price contingencies                                  2.73    2.88     5.61
Total Subproiect Cost                         40.46   39.59    80.05



- 48 -                           ANNEX 2.02
Page 2 of 2
Item                                                       Local  Foreign   Total
II.  Upgrading of Distribution System
Expansion of the execondary distri-
bution systems (1990-93 annual plans)            15.12    9.69    24.81
Total Base Cost                                15.12    9.69    24.81
Physical contingencies                                1.51    0.97      2.48
Price contingencies                                   1.20    0.83      2.03
Total Subproject Cost                           17.83   11.49    29.32
III. Radio System Monitoring and Control
Expansionldevelopment of radio-multiplex
system                                            0.93    1.96      2.89
Total Base Cost                                  0.93    1.96      2.89
Physical contingencies                                0.09    0.02      0.29
Price contingencies                                   0.07    0.17      0.24
Total Subproject Cost                            1.09    2.33      3.42
IV. Maintenance Equipment and Vehicles
Maintenance spares                                  0.53    2.13      2.66
Construction and Maintenence vehicles               0.84    2.58      3.42
Total Base Cost                                  1.37    4.71      6.08
Physical contingencies                                0.14    0.47      0.61
Price contingencies                                   0.11    0.41      0.52
Total Subprolect Cost                            1.62    5.59      7.21
V. Total Project Cost
Total base costs                                   51.72   49.73   101.45
Total Physical contingencies                        5.17    4.98    10.15
Total Price contingencies                           4.11    !.2.9    8.40
Total Project Cost                              61.00   59.00   120.00
Interest during construction
IDC on Bank loan                                  -       6.50      -
IDC on other loans                                3.50    -         -
Total Financing Requirement                     64.50   65.50   130.00



PHIUPPINES
MANILA POWER DISMIDUMON PROJECT
11S IMSubftransmiuon Unes
NOW c                           18               1O               1991            192               1993             194            K A IDES
_   PROR con                 t1~~~~~~~~~M  A4 I -S IO-D sM AI  A 1.0  -M J IOD  10-D  Mllo    TIA41 S 104D  t1A,141 1       SMI AJ I i-s 1-    SIs- I    s
BAUNIAWAX LEG OF                                                                                                                       11I 6/89
NGC-PARANG I.IN                                                                          s N I                                         1.1/92   II 2/92
2.                                                                                                                                         2.4/92   2.5/92
AsocIad S stos                                       I                                    I* I3II I                                  4.10/I939 410/93  1  I I I I I II040
6Illt E_                                       ___              _____| ----       - - - 42  -2    
1./9141
3.  ARANEIA-SANT4A MESA LIK                                                 a2 oil                                                         2.4/91               I-
3.11/91i        _
4.6/92               0    U)   s-
GARD)NER-MCCRRP LINE                                  -                - - -                                                                                  
tEGE:  ,   ENGINEERNS~III  -                                   PHS  KE                                                      1.2/90. 1./9 SDIVWIN
2_I/90   2 5/90 CI
4.                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.12/90  3 4/911 ~ N
4 12(91  4. 12/91 R
Assockated SubE3ation:              5                   see IIs Is U
(Gardne MOCRRPI)                                                                                                                                              '
1.11/92                   0
5.  GAACW-PANPLONA LREw                                                                                                                    2.4/92
U   U   *   U   m              3.~~~~~~~~~~~a111/92,
7 1 1                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4. 12/93
8tNANBAUIAGO LINE                                                                       *3U          . * m *1.11/92   1. 2/92
2.4/92   2.5/92
6.                                                                                                                                         3 11/92  3.4/93
AssoclatedSubstatlons  -   -   -   -   -  I  -   -       -   -            -   -   -        -   -   4.6/93   4.6/93~~~~~~~~~~4 /93    .619
LEGEND:       -      EGINERING PHASE                                    XEY DATES:    I. BID INVITATION 
BDDING CYCLE                                                        2. COTRC AWARD 
CONTRAClNG PROCESS                                                   3. PIROCUREMVENT COMPLETION
I5l81lIl1 PROCLIREMENT CYCLE                                                4. IN SERVIC
CONSI'McONKX)IVI.3 SSIONING PHASE                                                                                     W)IId BOI*-43944:5



PHIUPPINES
MANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Subdaton Component
l 1       I        -i-'-'9       1991             1992      i      1993             199                 m
mca_ asSon                                                                                                                            1.6/89  .i6/89
2.9/89   2.9/89
1.                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.8/90   3.4/90
AMOCkOod Urms  4                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.12/90  412/Z90
(115 W & 34.5Wk)
CALAU.AN SILUS M                      I       m  mmi                                                                                  1.6/89   1.6/89
2. 9/89   2.9/99
2.                                                                                                                                        3.8/90 |14/90
AssockAt3d UL                            .      ;                                                                                   4.12/90  4 12/90
(230 W &1 15W
-                               - -,4.kV  - -- - -- -                                                   -                                              -      __l  
|AYABAS SUBSTATTON                          mEX
1.6/89   11.6/89
2. 9/89   2.9/89
3.                                                                                                                                        3.8/90   3.4/90
Assockded Unes                                                                                                                      4 12/90  4. 12/90
(230 W & 34.5 W)
GUlGUIN1OSUBSSPAl
'1.,2/90   1. Z/90
4.                                                                                                      2.5/90~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IS   2.8/90
4,                                                                                                      & ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4/91   3.12/90
Asuckted LInes                                    r"  a4,12/911 4 112/911
(230 W. 145 W. 34.5 W. 13.8 k)
PARANG SUBSDkTION                W  ml III 1111111           0                                       1~~~~~~~~~~~~1. 2/91   1.1i/91i
2.5/91   2.4/911
6.                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4/92   3,11/911
Assockated LIneI                                                                                                                    4.10/92  4 10/92
(415 W. 34.5 W)
ARANETA SUBSTATION                                   mlmlwelolI                        W129                                                    i.i9
2.5/90  2.4/91           0
6.  34.5 kV)d 1.515/92  4.5/92
WOtId BO*--43944:2



MANILA PCOWER DISTRIWTION PROJECT
Subfttlkon Component
1989            1990             1991             1992            1993             1994           KEY DAWE
FrCTCOMO- -E                                                                                           -   - w              -      -
JM  AJ I J6 10.0    AJ  J. i-S  JIM  AJ  .14 10.0D.  A.J .1 10.0       AJ i- .1400 J.M  A-JI .1-s I-    S/S   W'JE
(5 V  5   -                                  --    - --- _                 -          _ _ _-   _  - _  _ _ _ _  - _                                _
OmTIGAS VJSLJSATIN                           M                                                                                          1.6/89   1.6189
2.9/89   2 7/89
7                                       _                                                                                                   3.8/90 1.4/90
I                                           4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t11/90  411/90
Associated Lines
(115 W & 34.5 W)
a                                                                                                                                           2.5/90 LVh13hz  l   l   |t  ,    [  T    92.5/90
Associated Lines                                           g o, li  I   I  I                                                          34/91   3.12/90
(230 WV&                       I4SkYI Ai 411/91
-SAN MIGUEL SUBSTATION                                  a       -A -oe so  al  -1-2-90 -i -                                                          2 9a
2.5/90   2.5/90
3.4(91   3.12/90
Associated Unes                                                                                  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~411/91 4. I1/91
(115 kV & 34.5 WV)              _s-tit                                                      
LOS BANOS SUBSTATION                   IM W~~~~~~~~A less Imlll I.5
1.2/90   i. i/91
2. 25/90   2-4/91
AsMkFted LWM                                    owl~~~~~~~ oil goaal                                                4.2/92   4,2/92
SANTA CRUZSU      3N3mil
CRUZ SUBSUAIlON                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.2/91   1. 1/92
2-5/9i   2.4/92
111.                                                                                                                                         3.4/92   3.11/92
Associated Lines                                                                                     me333                            4-4/93   4.4/93
(69 kV & 113.8 W)
AYALA-ALABANG SUMMAION                                                                                                                  i I  12/90   1.2/190
2-5/90   2.5/90
12.                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.4/91 3 112/90
12.                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.8/91   468/91
A:soclafed Lines                                           US   i
(115 WV & 34.5 W)
LEGASFI SuBSTATiON                                                        A3                                                            1 2/91   11i/91
2 5/91   2 4/91         D 
13                                                                                                     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~3 4/92   3'11/91  X >
4 12/92  4 12/92
Associated Lirnes                                                      p8 gain          = m0
(11 I.V & 34.5 kV)
W41d SOflk-43944:3



PHIUPPINES
MANILA POWER DISIRIBUtON PROJECT
Subsation, Dtdbuton Sytem, Radio MuMplex and Mantenance EquWient and Vehklebs Component
PROIC COKVOWO                     199              199              1991             .9              1093            1994           KEF DAES
_________~~~~J    A                     116  W    JJ-            AJ   "  0 O  J      4i         AJ          06                   S/S     UNES
BFM4RANAQUE SUBSTATION                                                                                                                  1ll -  1 2/91   1 1/92
2.5/91   2 4(92
4.  364/92s.                                                                                                                                          3 11(92
4.8/93   4 8/93
AssIoite unes                                                                                            m
(145 kV & 34.5 kV)
KAYDIGA SUBSOAIION                                                                    mm                                                1 2_90   1.1/91
2 5190   2 4/91
3 4/9`1  3.11/91 
4.4(92   4.4/92
Assockited Lines                                                   M.Bsel                                                                                                  Ln
(145 W St 34.5 kcV)
UPGRADI~NG OF DISTRWI0UIN....
SYSTEM                                      -       /        i   /   // Sz'7$/                 S// i                                    Ongoing Ptocess
RADIO MULTIPLEX    -                                                                                                                     2.8(89
3.5/90
4.12/90
MAITENANCE EQUIPMENT                                              of    A U   iii o ss                                                 Ongoing Posess  SI
I                                                                 ~~~~~~~                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.8/89 
MANNANCE VEICE                               I                                                  I   Tl   l            I I12.10/89                             Ho
WBSwu*-43944: 4



- 53  -                    ANNEX 2.04
Page 1 of' 4
PHILIPPINES
MANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Major Project Procurement Packages and Schedule of Delivery
Procurement    Description of                      Qusntity required                Total        Mode of
Packages        Equipment/Msterials                 per year                        quantity    Procuremant
190O  199    192   1993
(a)    Power Transformer                                                                      ICD
200 MVA, 230 kVY-115 kVY-13.8 kVD          1      1       -      -         2
100 MVA, 280 kVY-115 kVY-13.8 kVD          1      -       -      -         1
100 MVA, 116 kVY-84.S kVY-13.0 kVD         2      -       1      -        8
83 MVA, 116 kVY-34.6 kVY-18.8 kVD          1      2       4      -         7
20 MVA, 116 kVY-13.8 kVD                   -      1       -      -         1
20 MVA, 84.5 kVY-13.8 kVD                  -      -       1      -         1
20 WVA, 84.6 kVY-6.24 kVY-2.4 kVD          -      2       -      1         8
12.6 MVA, 69 kVD-13.8 kVY                  -      2       1      -        8
'2.5 MVA, 34.5 kVY-13.8 kVD                -      -       -      1         1
12.6 MVA, 34.5 kVY-13.8 kVD                -      -       -      1         1
12.6 MVA, 84.6 kVY-6.2 kVY-2.4 KVD         -      -       1      -        1
6.26 MVA, 84.6 kVY-13.2 kVY                -      -       -      1         1
6.26 UVA, 84.5 kVY-4.8 kVD                 1      -       -      1         2
6.25 UVA, 13.8 kVD-4.8 kVY-O.8kVY          1      -       -      -         1
(b)    Mobile Transformer                                                                     ICB
50 MVA, 115 kVY-34.6 kVY-13.0 kVD          -      1       -      -         1
20 MVA, 84.6 kVY-6.24 kVY-2.4 kVY          -      -       1      -         1
(c)    M  tel-Clad Switchgear                                                                 ICD/LCB
34.6 kV MCSWGR with 6 PCBs                 -      1       1      -        2
34.6 kV MCSWOR with 6 PCBs                 -      2       1      -         8
84.5 kV MCSWOR with 8 PCBs                 1      -       -      -         1
84.5 kV MCSWGR with 1 PCB                                        1         1
8.7 kV MCSWOR with 2 PCBs                  1      -       1      -         2
6.24 kV MCSWOR with 6 PCBs                 -      -       -      1         1
4.8 kV MCSWOR with 2 PCBs                  1      -       -      1         2
(d)    Oa* Insulated Switch ear                                                               ICB
(wth associae  disconnect
switches, PTs, CTs, etc.)
116 kV  IS with 8 OCs                      -      -       1      -        1
116 kV GIS with 4 GCBs                     1      -       1      -        2
116 kV OIS with 8 aCBs                     -      1       -      -        1
116 kV GIS with I GCB                      1      -      -       -        1
U4.5 kV GIS with 8 GCBs                    2      -       -      -        2
(e)    Power Circuit Breakor                                                                  ICa
230 kV, 2,000 A, 8,000 MVA (SF6)           6      8       -      -        14
116 kV, 2,000 A, 8,000 MVA (SF6)           6     15       8      6       85
69 kV, 600 A, 1,600 MVA (oll/SFO)          -      2       1      -         8
34.6 kV, 1,200 A, 1,600 MVA (oll/SF6)   16        4       6      5       80
6.24 kV, 1,200 A, 860 MVA (VCO)            -      6       -      -         6
(f)    Disconnect Switch (8 each per set)                                                     iCe
230 kV, 2,OOO A                           10     1S       -      -        25
ll5 kV, 2,000 A                            6     26      13     12       s6
69 kV, 2,000 A                             -      2       1      -         8
84.5 kV, 1,200 A                          18     12      21      8        54



5NNEX 2.04
-54 -                     Feig  2 ofr4
Procurement    Description of                      Quantlty required                Total        Mode of
Package.       Equipment/Materlsl-                 per year                         Quantity    Procurement
1990   1991   19M    1993
(g)    Station-TZED CaeacItor Bank                                                             ICB
U 4.S kV, 7.2 MVAR                         6      2       7      1        15
18.8 kV, a.eVVAR                           -      2       1      -        8
(h)    Transformer Cooling Fen                                                                 ICB/LIB
1/4 W , 16O in., zao VAG                  so     Be      so      -      lee
(I)    Underground Power Cable (kmn)                                                          ice
500 MCM, a5 kV, CU                       8.8    8.1    8.8    1.0      16.2
600 MCM, 15 kV, Cu                       0.4    1.8    0.7    0.2       8.1
1000 MCM, 16 kV, Cu                        -      -       -    0.5      0.6
1000 MCM, 8 kV, Cu                       0.4    0.9       -    0.2      1.5
SOO MCM, 8 kV, Cu                          -      -       -    1.1       1.1
(j)    Wtro (km)                                                                              ice
795 MN Bnar  ACSR                        269    112    219      86      676
386.4 MCM Bare ACSR                      229     84      68     69      880
8/0 Bare ACSR                            182     84    8a       72      274
1/0 Bare ACSR                             72     28      66     41      197
716 Bare ACSR                            128     82      72     49      281
(k)    Storege Battery and Battery Charger                                                    ICe
60 Cell, load-acid, 5OO amp-hr.            1      1       -      -         2
60 Cell, lead-acid, 240 amp-hr.            2      2       4      -         8
60 Cell, lead-acid, 160 amp-hr.            -      2       1      1         4
b0 amp., 129-140 VOC, Battery Charger    1        1       -      -        2
26 amp., 129-140 VDC, Battery Charger    2        4       6      1        12
(1)    Fume Cutout                                                                            ICB/LCB
34.5 kV                                  265    246    862    818    1,188
7.8 kV                                    19     el       -      -       to
(i)    Distributlon Transformer                                                               ICB
20 kY, 120/240 V, 1W kVA                  le     17       4      7       48
20 kV, 120/240 V, 15 kVA                  89     48      48     87      167
20 kV, 120/240 V, 25 kVA                  65     47      47     84      188
20 kV, 120/240 V, 87.5 kVA                11     19      81     85       96
20 kV, 120/240 V, 50 kVA                  29     28      61     44       147
20 kV, 120/240 V, 76 kVA                  18     16      40     86       11l
20 kV, 120/240 V, 100 kVA                 26     18      40     89       122
20 kV, 189/277 V, 167 kVA                 18     18      19      7        62
20 kV, 189/277 V, 260 kVA                  9      -       -      -         9
20 kV, 189/277 V, 888 kVA                  1      8       6      4        14
20 kV, 120/240 V, 189/277 V, 87.5 kVA    6       10      16     16        60
20 kV, 120/240 V, 189/277 V, 60 kVA       15     11      26     22        78
20 kV, 120/240 V, 189/277 V, 76 kVA        9      9      20     17        6C
20 kV, 120/240 V, 189/277 V, 100 kVA    18        9      20     19       el
7.6 kV, 120/240 V, 10 kVA                 14      -       -      -        14
7.6 kV, 120/240 V, 16 kVA                  2     80       -      -        82
7.6 kV, 120/240 V, 26 kVA                  8     19       -      -       22
7.6 kV, 120/240 V, 87.6 kV                 -     12       -      -        12



- 55  -                   ANNEX 2.04
pae a o4
Procurement    Description of                     Quantity required               Total       mod. of
Packages       Equipment/Materials                per year                        quantity    Procurement
1990   1091   1992   1998
(n)    Potential and Current Transformer                                                    ICB
230 kV PT                                 6     15      -      -        21
230 kV PT, metering close                 6      a      -      -         9
116 kV PT                                 6      6      9      -        21
69 kV PT, metering close                  -      6      8      -         9
34.6 kV PT                                2      2      6      -         9
230 kV CT                                 6      a      -      -         9
69 kV CT (3 each)                         -      6      8      -         9
(o)    Radio Multiplex (lot)                     1      -      -      -         1           IC8
(p)    Oil/Vacuum Circuit Recloser                                                          ICB
31.5 kV, 560 A, 8-phase                   6      6      6      6        24
20 kV,6 SA, 1-phase                       6      6      5      6        20
16.6 kV, 400 A, 8-phase                   6      6      5      6       20
(q)    Voltage Roaulstor                                                                    Ice
ZO kV, 200 A, 400 kVA, I-phase            6      6      9      9        80
1J 8 kV, 200 A, 276 kVA, I-phase          6      6      9      9       8O
6 kV, 200 A, 100 kVA, 1-phaose            6             9      9        sO
(r)    Regulstor Bypess Disconnect Switch                                                   IC6
38 kV, 400 A             O  e                           9      9        so
16.6 kV, 400 A                           12     12     16     18       60
(s)    Line Capacitor and Accessories                                                       ICe
1,800kVAR, 84.5 kV                        6      5      9      9       29
100 kVAR, 7.96 kV                        1S     15     18     18      6e
100 kVAR, 4.6 kV                         15     15     16     19        66
Voltage Sensor                           90     90    120    120       420
86 kV Capacitor oll/switch                6      5      9      9        28
14.4 kV Capacitor oil switch             60     60     76     76       270
(t)    Load Break Switch and Line DisconnectSwitch                                          ICB/LCB
84.5 kV, 1,200 A                         81     81     86     70       327
13.8 kV, 600 A                            6      6     10     10        80
Primary line switch                      86     12      6      -        54
(u)    Tranemission and Distribution On Line Pole                                           ice
Steel Pol-
45 feetWbttom                                   14      -      -        14
80 test top                             418    115    829      -       882
80 fest middles                         465    126    864      -       957
80 feet bottom                          567    166    475      -    1,228
Wood Pole
gO feet                                   1     20      -      -        21
60 feet                                 195    112    146    128       678
66 feet                                 469    278    869    807    1,480
60 feet                                 783    487    589    492    2,801
45 feet                                 469    278    869    807    1,488
40 fest                                 659    101     21    270    1,061
go feet                                 106     87     40    65        287



ANNEX 2.04
- 56 -                  P*g-O      4 4 ot
Procurement    Descriptlon of                      Quantlty required               Total        Mod Of
Package        Equlpment/Materials                 per y  r                        Quantity    Procurement
1990   1991   1992   1998
(v)    Liohtnina Arrestor                                                                    ICB
UV  'IV                                   -       6      a      -9
so kV                                    46      24     51     15       185
27 kV                                   284    270    989   a80    1,802
16 kV                                    21     67      25    a8        146
(w)    Insulator                                                                             ICe
11S kV horizontal (single)              482    227    882       -    1,071
116 kV horizontal (double)              809     46    270       -      624
Suspension                           2e,095 10,991 19,949  8,991   67,916
84.5 kV pin                           5,986  4,182  4,658  4,832   19,602
18.8 kV pin                           1,180    294      46   564    2,078
(x)    Time of Day Moter                                                                     ICe
I t8r "ter                                5      6      10     10       s0
(y)    Maintenance Vehiclos                      1       -      -      -         1           ICB/LCB
Derrick Truck                             1       5      -      -         e
Boaket Truck (Heavy)                      6       6      -      -        11
Basket Truck (Medium)                     5       2      -      -         7
Crane                                     8       2      -      -         5
Wrecker                                   1       -      -      -         1
(z)    Switchboard materials (lot)                                                           IC0/LCB
Staggered deliveries                      -       -      -      -         1
(so)   Miscellaneous Hardware                    1       -      -      -         1           LCB
and Accessories (lot)
(sb)   Civil Works                                to be bid according to       ICe
implementation schedule.



ANNEX 2.05
- 57 -
PHILIPPINES
MANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Asia Regional
Disbursements         Profile (Power)
Fiscal year      Semester        Semester  Cumulative       Cumulative    2
1990              I              -           -
II              0.5         0.5             0.6         1
1991              I              2.2         2.7             3.3         5
II              3.7         6.4             6.5       10
1992              I              3.8        10.2            11.2        17
II              9.0       19.2             19.6       30
1993              I              9.0        28.2            29.5        45
II              8.0       36.2             34.7       56
1994              I              7.4        43.6            43.2        66
II              6.6       50.2             49.1        75
1995              I              5.8        56.0            53.7        82
II              9.5       65.5             58.3       89
1996              I              -           -              62.2        95
II              -           -              65.5      100



- 58 -                      Annex 3.01
Page 1 of 7
PHILIPPINES
MANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Balance Sheets 1984-85
(Pesos Million)
1Ti4             1985
ASSETS
Cash and due from banks                       P 2,477.6         P 2,459.0
Investments in securities                      11,557.1           9,537.4
Loans                                          35,827.6          24,757.9
Contract mortgage receivable                    2,974.7           2,693.0
Miscellaneous investments                       2,627.6           2,648.9
Other properties owned                          5,312.2           8,165.8
Bank premises, furniture & fixtures (net)         154.7             157.3
Other resources                                 4,528.2          21,623.8
Total Assets                               K5.459.6         P72,043.0
LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY
Short-term borrowings
-Foreign                                   P 2,850.2         P 2,704.6
-Domestic                                    2,870.8           6,769.4
Current maturities of long-term
borrowings                                   3,021.4           3,343.0
Time and savings deposits                         978.3           1,519.1
Interest and other payables                     5,477.1           4,728.0
Long-term borrowings, net of current
maturities
-Foreign                                    28,853.2          32,295.9
-Domestic                                   14,954.6          12,704.6
Deferred credits                                1,282.6           1,373.7
Special funds                                      87.8             134.0
Total Liabilities                          P60,376.0         P65,572.2
Special Funds-National Government          P 2,000.0         P 2,000.0
SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY
Capital stock - par value P1,000; authorized
50 million shares                          P 9,935.1         P18,208.1
Surplus/Deficit                                (6,851.5)        (13,737.3)
Total Shareholder's Equity                   3j083.6           4,470.8
Total Liabilities & Shareholder's Equity P65,459.6           P72,043.0
Contingent Liabilities                        P20,032.3         P18,254.0
Trust Funds                                   P 1,533.6         P 1,922.6
Conversion Rates                              P19.76 to $1.00  P19.03 to $1.00



_ 5, _                   Annex 3.01
Page 2 of 7
PHILIPPINES
MANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Income Statements 1984-85
(Pesos Million)
1984              1985
OPERATING INCOME
Interest - Agricultural loans                     199.6             188.6
- Industrial loans                       414.6             435.1
- Miscellaneous loans                    517.2             672.9
Miscellaneous bank fees                           196.8             147.1
Earnings on funds and securitif                   355.6             531.9
Income from other properties owned                 67.9              99.7
Other income                                      917.9           1,064.8
TOTAL OPERATING INCOME                       2,669.5           3,140.2
OPERATING EXPENSES
Interest and other financial
expenses                                     7,995.2           8,006.6
Salaries and other personnel
expenses                                       290.4             321.3
other administrative expenses                     321.9             448.8
TOTAL OPERATING ZXYDNSES                     8,607.5           8,776.7
Net operating income (loss)                    (5,938.0)         (5,636.5)
Profit (loss) on assets sold, net              (1,841.1)         (1,235.4)
Operating loss before income tax               (7,779.1)         (6,871.9)
Provision for income t-.x
-Deferred                                   (   27.3)         (  27.3)
-Current                                        35.4              41.3
NET INCOME (LOSS)                              (7,787.1)         (6,885.9)
Funded by National Government                   5,400.0           7,445.4
Net Income after Government
Contribution (los)                         (2,387.1)            559.5
NET INCOME - TRUSTS PUND8                         185.4             195.7



PHILIPPINES  - 60 -
MANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT          Annex 3.01
Page 3 ot 7
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Statements of Changes in Financial Position 1984-85
(Pesos Million)
1984              1985
FINANCIAL RESOURCES WERE PROVIDED BYs
From portfolio sales & repayment3
Sale of loans, equities &
acquired assets                      P 1,304.1         P 1,559.4
Loan & guarantee repayments               1,636.8           1,266.5
Collections on contract mortgage
receivable                               197.3             190.1
Bond redemptions                               2.8               3.2
From other sources
Transfer of MKIC accounts to new
companies                                -               9,587.3
Increase in paid-in capital               5,635.5           8,273.0
Assumption of guaranteed obligations    1,615.6             6,444.9
Revaluation & other adjustments on
loans, equities & contract
mortgage receivable                      ^               1,524.6
Revaluation & other adjustments
on borrowings                         10,727.9             491.3
Domestic borrowings                       2,543.5             312.1
Foreign borrowings                          457.4             141.9
Decrease in contract mortgage
receivable                               -                  96.0
Increase in deferred credits                181.2              38.2
Increase in liability reserves
and special funds                         40.0              33.5
Total Financial Resources Provided          24,342.2          29,962.0
FINANCIAL RESGURCES WERE USED FOR:
Net loss from operations                   P 5,976.5        P  5,665.6
Non-cash charges included in net loss
Amortization of deferred charges          (     .8)         ( 695.4)
Provision for doubtful accounts
& investment                          (   78.0)         t   78.0)
Depreciation                             (   22.8)         (   30.9)
Deferred income tax                          10.7               17.3
Financial resources used for operations    5,885.7              4,878.6
Portfolio investments
Loan & guarantee disbursements            3,291.8           3,263.8
Equity & long-term bond investments         671.5             249.5
Payment of long-term debt maturities
Roll over from long-term  to short-term  1,786.2            1,528.7
Domestic borrowing                        2,362.0           1,184.4
Foreign borrowings                          299.1           1,566.0
Others
Increase in other resources, net            731.1          15,963.3
Increase in other properties owned        3,603.7           2,855.0
Revaluation & other adjustment on
loans, equities & CMR                     4,494.4               -
Increase in bank premises                        11.1              24.8
Increase in miscellaneous investments          349.6                5.2
Increase in contract mortgage receivable        745.1               _
Total Financial Resources Used              24,231.3          31,519.3
Changes in working capital                      110.9          (1,557.3)
TOTAL                                      P24,342.2         929,962.0



- 61 -
Annex 3.01
Page 4 of 7
PHILIPPINES
MANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Balance Sheets 1986-87
(Pesos 'illion)
1986            1987
ASSETS
Cash and due from banks                         P 1,169.4        1   558.2
Loans and advances                                5,271.1          4,394.5
investments in bonds and other
government securities                           1,498.5          4,459.7
Equity investments                                  687.7            396.5
Real and other property owned or acquired           293.6            118.5
Bank premises, furniture, fixtures Lnd
equipment                                         165.2            213.7
Other resources, net of allowance for
probable losses                                   418.0             90.4
Total Assets                                    P 9,503.6        10,531.6
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY
Liabilities
Short-term borrowings                              P585.3           0727.5
Deposit liabilities
Time                                              243.9            259.6
Savings                                           317.6            272.0
Interest and other payables                       1,198.6          2,184.3
Longterm borrowings                               2,025.7          1,340.0
Unearned income and other deferred credits          307.7            341.0
Special Funds National Government                 2,000.0          1,800.0
Other funds                                         146.5            146.3
Total Liabilities                                 6,825.3          7,070.8
Stockholder's Equity
Paid-in Capital                                 2,500.0          2,500.0
Retained Earnings                                 178.2            960.8
Total Stockholder's Equity                        2,678.2          3,460.8
Total Liabilities and Stockholder's Equity       19,503.6        310,531.6



- 62 -                  Annex 3.01
Page 5 of 7
PHILIPPINES
MANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Income Statements 1986-87
(Pesos Million)
Years Ended December 31
1986             1987
INCOME
Interest on loans and advances                   1  723.8       1    586.6
Earnings on securities and investments              562.7            687.6
Other income                                        852.1            502.9
TOTAL OPERATING INCONE                         2,138.5          1,777.2
EXPENSES
Interest and other financial charges on
borrowings and deposits                         4,095.0            252.8
Provision for probable losses                     3,049.8            135.0
Compensation and fringe benefits                    352.5            265.3
Taxes and licenses                                   50.3              8.7
Rent                                                  8.3              5.4
Other administrative expenses                       220.6            298.3
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                       7,776.4            965.5
Income (loss) from operations (note 11)          (5,637.9)           811.7
Share in Net Income (loss) of equity investment    ( .9)               1.0
INCOME AFTER DISPOSITION OF ASSETS            (5,638.8)           812.7
Provision for Income Tax                                              (30.2)
NET INCOME (LOSS) FOR THE PERIOD                P(5,638.8)      I    782.6



- oj -
Annex 3.01
PHILIPPINES                     Page 6 of 7
tANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Statements of Changes in Financial Position 1986-87
(Pesos Million)
1986             1987
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Operations
Net income (loss) for the period       P(5,638.8)         P  782.6
Charges not requiring outlay of funds
Provision for probable losses         3,049.8             135.0
Depreciation and amortization            19.9              23.6
Funds provided by (used for) operations   (2,569.1)             941.1
Increase in surplus as a result of
bank rehabilitation program             19,680.2               -
Increase in:
Interest and other payables                -                 985.7
Unearned income and other
deferred credits                       -                  33.3
Special funds                               12.5               -
Decrease in:
Cash and due from banks                  1,289.6             311.2
Loans and advances                      21,778.9             741.6
Investments in bonds and other
government securities                 1,668.3               -
Equity investments                       5,682.8             291.2
Real and other property
owned or acquired                     7,872.2             175.2
Other resources                         21,079.4             327.5
Total                             76,494.9           3,806.8
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Decrease in capital stock as a result
of bank rehabilitation program          15,708.1               -
Increase int
Bank premises, furniture, fixtures
and equipment                            27.9              72.1
Investment in bonds and other
government securities                   -               2,961.2
Decrease in:
Short-term borrowings                    9,474.0             539.3
Deposit liabilities                        957.6              29.8
Interest and other payables              3,535.2              -
Long-term borrowings                    45,732.4               4.1
Unearned income and other
deferred credits                      1,059.6               -
Special Funds                              -                 200.2
Total                            P76,494.9         P 3,806.8



- 64 -
Annex 3.01
Page 7 ot 7
Notes to Financial Statements
1.    DBP rehabilitation program:  Since January 1984, funding responsibility
for DBP's non-performing accounts (NPAs) was assumed by the National
Government by way of equity contributions at year end equal to the total
losses on NPAs over the preceeding year. These amounts are given in the
income statements under the item labelled "Funded by the National Government"
(in effect, tbese are extraordinary adjustments to the 1984 and 1985 accounts,
taken after the computation of net income). Total yearly government equity
contributions appear in the Statements of Changes in Financial Position under
the item "Increase in Paid-In Capital."
2.    Reserve for possible losses on accounts and investments:   reserves
provided and charged against operations are based on possible losses computed
as follows: (a) excess of total recorded bank exposure (including outstanding
guarantees and preferred shares) over the loan value of the collateral
appraised value; (b) excess of acquisition cost of equity investments over
realizable value.
3.    Reserves for possible losses on equity, loans and acquired assets:
these reserves are small and do not reflect the size of DBP's portfolio
problems. Since possible losses on these accounts were covered by Government
equity contributions under the rehabilitation program, they did not need to be
provided for through charges against DBP's income.



- 65 -                                  ANNEX 3.02
Page 1 of 10
PHILIPPINES
MANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEET
1989 - 1994
(MILLION PESOS)
ACTUAL     BUDGET    ----------P  R  O  J  E  C  T  I  O N  S----------
1988       1989        1990       1991        1992        1993        1994
ASSETS
Deposits with & Due from Banks                 1,195         321         317         386        452         421         493
Investment in Bonds & Securities
Securities                                4,289       2,189      1,889       1,889       2,189       2,389      2,389
Commerclil Papers                             0           0           0          0           0           0           0
Wholesale-Relendlng to PFIs                         0      3,851      12,602     17,470      23,412      30,713      39.413
-Receivable from RDBs                     0           0        628         558         488        418         348
Retail-Loan PortfolLo - PAs (Outstanding)
Window 1                                  1,187       1,745      1,968       2,433       2,864       3,257      3,616
Window 2                                  3,444       5,069      5,593       7,293       8,870     10,292      11,513
Window 3                                     74         559         838      1,075       1,283       1,572      1,942
MERALCO Loan From KFW & WB                          0        127         503        784         706         635         572
Loan Portfollo - NPAs (Old)                    1,449           0           0           0          0           0           0
- NPAs (New)                                 139         349         596        708         813         909
Equity & Bond Investments-PAs                    409         385         320        266         214         170         133
NPAs (Old)             37           0          0           0           0          0           0
NPAs (New)                         20          7           6           5          4           4
RDBs                    0           0         70          70          70          70         70
CMR & Other Investments-PAs                      765         704         384        308         237         180         135
NPAs (Old)              533           0          0           0           0           0          C
NPAs (Nev)                           37         30          19          16          13         10
Other Properties Owned-PAs                         74         70          11           9          7           6           5
NPAs (Old)               856         350        175           0           0           0          0
NPAs (New)                             4           4          2           1           1          1
Allow. for Doubtful Accounts-PAs                 (303)      (399)       (414)       (515)      (610)       (695)       (770)
NPAs            (2,704)      (440)       (312)       (499)      (583)       (664)       (739)
Window 3             0         (84)      (126)       (161)       (192)      (236)       (291)
Premises                                         242         411         310        279         250         227        209
Other Assets                                      187        337         174        174         174         174         174
TOTAL ASSETS                             11,734      15,396     25,320      32,441      40,559     49,760      60,135



ANNEX 3.02
- 66 -                              Page 2 of 10
ACTUAL     BUDGET    ----------P R  O J E          C  T  I  O N  S----------
1988       1989       1990       1991        1992       1993        1994
LIABILITIES & STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY
Purchased Funds
Deposits - Private                           480        893         717        867      1,017       1,167      1,317
NG                              1,681        331        247         272        297         322        347
Borrowings
Existlng-WB/ADB (Long term) 1!               431        285         221        184        149         114         79
Countryside Blls  11               477        327        190          85          0           0          0
Others             21                 1          1           1          1          1           1          1
New - Domestic Borrowlngs                      0          0         300        800        800         500        700
ODAs/Multi/Bilateral Funds
APEX    21                                   0        571         550        529        508         487        466
IGLF    31                                            557       3,276      4,598      6,184       6,710      6,610
AJDF                                         0      3,121       7,944      7,944      7.944       7,944      7,944
I R U                                                 223       1,486      3,145      6,277       6,277      6,277
DLBS                                                    0           0          0          0       2,504      3,756
Kreditanstalt fur WeLderaufbau(MERALCO)               127         515        847        847         847        847
WORLD BANK (MERALCO)                                    0           0          0          0           0
SWISS LINE                                            892        892         892        892         892        892
AdditLonal Financing                         0          0           0      2,370      4,779       9,597     17,109
Interest & Other Payables                     1,556      1,526       1,748      1,913      1,818       2,037      2,244
Deferred Credits                                581        581         397        397        397         397        397
Special Funds                                    19         19          19         19         19          19         19
Special Funds - NG                            1,400          0           0          0          0           0          0
Stockholder's Equity
Paid-in Capital                            2,500      2,500      2,500       2,500      2,500       2,500      2,500
Retained Earnings                          2,608      3,443       4,316      5,077      6,129       7,444      8,629
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY              11,734     15,396     25,319      32,441     40,559     49,759      60,134
0          0          0           0          1          1           1
1/ Already borrowed
2/ APEX - Transferred portfollo during 1989.
31 Includes IGLF portfollo transferred in 1990
.                                                           .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 67 -
ANNEX 3.02
Page 3 of 10
PHILIPPINES
MANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT BANR OF TEE PHILIPPINES
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENT
1989 - 1994
(MILLION PESOS)
ACTUAL     BUDGET      ---------P R  o  J  E  C  T  I ON    S  --------
1988       1989       1990        1991        1992       1993        1994
OPERATING INCOME
Interest on loans                             716      1,234       2,643      3,882       5,000      6,228       7.072
Earnings on funds end securities              470        147         204        189         204        229         239
Miscellaneous bank fees                        57         23          67         71          74         78          82
Profit from sale of assets                    101         32          49         45          10          8           7
Other lncome                                  394        715         295        328         371        408         397
TOTAL                                     1,738      2,151       3,259      4.515      5,659       6,950       7,796
OPERATING EXPENSES
Interest & other fin. expenses                214        369       1,160      1,930      2,601       3,335       4,165
Salaries & other personnel expenses           292        409         343        360         378        397         417
Other Administrative expenses                 255        209         186        195         205        215         226
Gross receipts taxes                           45         60         114        158         198        243         273
Prov. for doubtful accounts-PAs                 0         96          15        102          94         86          75
-NPAs              0          (0)        32         498        583         664        739
-Windov 3          0          84         42          36         31          43         55
Depreciation                                   34         53          88         65          59         53          48
TOTAL                                       840      1,279       1,979      3,345       4,149      5,037       5,998
NET INCOME BEFORE TAX                            898        872       1,280      1,170       1,510      1,914       1,799
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAX                          37         37         323        294         326        421         390
NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR                          861        835         957        876       1,183      1,492       1,409



ANNEX 3.02
- 68 -                               Page 4 of 10
PHILIPPINES
MANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
PROJECTED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
1989 - 1994
(MILLION PESOS)
ACTUAL      BUDGET         ---------P  R O  J E  C  T  I O   N  S  --------
1988        1989         1990        1991         1992        1993         1994
BEGINNING CASH                               882       1,19S          321         317          386          452         421
RECEIPTS:
Principal Collections|
On loans-PAs-Windov 1            )                    367          213         215          267         306          343
Windov 2            )                 1,065          596          643         822          973       1,111
Window 3            )     1,162          23           56           78          94          105         126
MERALCO                                    0          13           50          78           71          64
-NPAs (Old)              )                     58
-NPAs (Nev)                                                28           70         119          142         163
-Releading to PFIs                             83         154          584       1,284        1,8 9       2,552
-Rec'ble from RDBs                              0          70           70          70           70           70
C1R & Other Inv - PAs            )                     24          106          58           55          44           36
NPAs (Old)    )                      8
NPAs (Nev)                                        7           6            4            3           3
Repayments of C   '.l Papers Loans           930           0            0           0            0           0            0
Interest Income-PAs-Window 1        )                    250          334         396          477         551          293
Window 2       )        650         803          960       1,160        1,455       1,725        1,252
Wlndov 3        )                    92           84         115          141          171         785
MERALCO                               4           21          44           51           46          41
MR & Other Inv           54          97           87          55           44           33          25
-NPAs (Old)                   90          18
-1PAs (New)                                            47          81          108          125          67
-Relending to PFIs                        36        1,069       1,955        2,657       3,518        4,558
-Rec'ble fron RDBs                         0           41          77           68           59          50
SalelRedemption of Assets
Equity In. -PAs- Book Value      )                      4           58          48           47          39           33
Profit         )                      1           12          10            9           8            7
-NPAP-Book Value      )                      0           4            1           1            1           1
Proflt         )0                                  1           0            0            0           0
-RDBs                                       0          105
Other Prop Owned-PAs-Book Value )         143           0           11           2            1           1            1
Profit     )        699           0            2           0            0           0            0
-NPAs-Book Value)                    225          175 1/      175 1/         0           0            0
Proflt    )                     45           35          35            0           0            0
Monetization of Securities                  217        2,100          300
Sale of Securitized Assets                               500          500
Earnings on Funds & Securities               390         147          204         189          204         229          239
Other Income
Fees & ServLce Charges                     57          64           67          71           74          78           82
On Loans                                 171          100          149         177          217         253          240
Dividends                                  23          11           35          29           24          .9           15
DivLdends-RDBs                                          0            4           8            8           8            8
Deps vith Banks                           58           40           16          18           21          22           23
Forelgn Exchange Gains                     40          29
Miscellaneous Income                      105         264           91          96          101         106          111
Incremental Deposits-Private        )                    413         150          15U          150         150          150
NG            )      1,467                       25          25           25          25           25
Borrowings
Domestic Sources                         153                       300         500                                   700
ODAM/Multi/Bilateral Sources
IGLF   (Retail in 1989)      *                        557         919        1,.22       1.686          626
AJDF   (Wholesale)                                  3,121        4,824
I R U  (Wholesale)                                    223       1,263        1,659       3,132
DLBS   (Wholesale)                                                                                    2,504        1,252
Kreditantalt fur WeLderaufbau(MERALCO)                127          388         332
WOULD BANK (MERALCO)
SWISS LINE (Retail)                                   892
Additional Financing Gap                                                     2,370        2,409       4,818        7.512
Addltlonal Payables                                      328          312         280
TOTAL RECEIPTS                            6,409       12,120      13,834       13,253       15,904      18,658       21,933
TOTAL AVAILABLE F UNDS                     7,291      13,315       14,155      13,570       16,290      19,110       22,354



ANNEX 3.02
- 69 -                               Page 5 of 10
ACTUAL  BUDGET  -P R O J E C T I O R S --------
1988        1989         1990         1991         1992         1993         1994
DISBURSEMENTS:
Releases-R lending to PFIs                               3,344        7,006        5,451        7,227        9,130       11,252
Window 1                    )                    966          773          811          852          873          895
Window 2                    )     2,551        3.284        2,627        2,759        2,896        2,969        2,969
Window 3 (301 of Net Inc.))                      489          306          287          263          355          448
Window 3 (On Collections)                         23           56           78           94          105          124
MERALCO                                          127          388          332            0            0            0
Repayment of New Domestic Borrow.                                                                   0          300          500
Capital Expenses-Premises                      58          222           53           35           30           30           30
Cash Operating Expenses                       522          618          529          555          583          612          643
Repayments-Borrowings
Long term(WBIADB)                 )                     146           64           37           35           35           35
Countryside Bills                 )      1,002          150          137          105          85             0            0
APEX (on transferred liability)                          21           21           21           21           21           21
IOLF (on transferred liability)                                     100          100          100          100          100
Purchase of SecurLties                                                                            300          200
Cash Dlvidends to NG                                                     83          115          131          177          224
Special Funds-NG                              400        1,400
Payment of Time Deposits-SG                   146          300
-Others                        1,050
Financial Charges                             232          364          962        1,738       2,433         3,151        3,957
Taxes-Gross Receipts                           86          147          101          147          188          232          265
Inc,er                                   37          66          251          302          318          397          398
Other Payables                              1,062          278          328          312          280            0
TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS                         6,096       12,994       13,786      13,184       15,838       18,689       21,861
ENDING CASH                                 1,195          321          317          386          452          421          493



- 70 -
Annex 3.02
Page 6 of 10
List of Acronyms Used In Financial ProJections
ADB                m     Asian Development Bank
AJDF               8     Asian Japan Development Fund
IGLF              a      Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
NG                =      National Government
NPA                      Non Performing Account
PA                -      Performing Account
PFI               -      Participating Financial Institution
RDB               -      Regional Development Bank
Window 1 loan      8     Loan with maturity not exceeding 12 months
Window 2 loan      -     Loan with maturity exceeding 12 months
Window 3 loan      -     Loan that does not completely satisfy conmercial
banking risk or collateral criteria; limited to a
maximum of 30S of DBP's previous year's after tax
net income. See para 3.15.



- 71 -                         ANEX 3.02
Page 7 of 10
ASSUMPTIONS
1.) Projected Releases (In Million P)
ACTUAL
1988  1989   1990  1991   1992   1993   1994
Retail:
Window I               966    773    811    852    873    895
Window II            3,284  2,627  2,759  2,896  2,969  2,969
Window III             512    362    365    357    460    572
Sub-total   2,551 4,762  3,762  3,935  4,105  4,302  4,436
Wholesale         -  3,344  7,006  5,451  7,227  9,130 11,252
MERALCO          -     127    388    332    -       -       -
TOTAL       2,551 8,233 11,156  9,718 11,332 13,432 15,688
2.) Collections
a.    Existing performing accounts (PAs) as of 12-31-88 assumed collected at the
rate of 15% p.a.; average interest rate of 18% p.a.
b.    Existing non-performing accounts (NPAs) as of 12-31-88 assumed phased out
by 1989; 20% collected; 80% written off.  Average interest rate of 16%.
c.    New Releases
Retail (Wl & W2) - assumed collected at the rate of 10% p. a., average
interest rate of 18% p.a.
Retail (W3) - assumed collected at the rate of 10% p.a., average interest
rate of 12% p.a. (Inflation of 10% + 2%)
Wholesale - assumed collected at the rate of 10% p.a., with two years grace
period; average interest rate of 13% p.a.
3.    Status of Accounts/Provisions for Doubtful Accounts
a.    2% of performing (PA) equity investments to turn into non-performing
(NPA) annually; 5% for loans and all other investments.
b.    NPAs assumed phased out in the year following their set-up as such;
20% collected; 80% written-off
c.    5% allowance for doubtful accounts for Windows 1 and 2 PAs; 15% for
Window 3 PAs; 80% for NPAs.



- 72 -                     ANNEX 3.02
Page 8 of 10
4.    Deposits
a.    Incremental deposits assumed at P 413 MM in 1989; all private.  In
1990 onwards, private deposits to increase p150 MM annually and
interest-bearing government deposits to increase P25 MM annually;
to cost average rate of 10%.
b.    Reserve requirements estimated as follows:
Private    - 14% in cash, to earn 4% p.a.
Government - 14% in cash, to earn 4% p.a.
61% in Government Securities, to earn 15% p.a.
or
an average rate of 5%.
5.) Funding Sources
a.  Source          Projected Availments
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993   1994
IGLF         $25.0   $40.0   $60.0  $ 70.0  $ 25.0  $  -
AJDF         140.0   210.0      -       -        -       -
IRU           10.0    55.0    70.0   130.0       -       -
DLBS           -        -       -       -     100.0    50.0
KFW            5.7    16.9    14.0      -        -       -
SWISS LINE    40.0      -       -       -        -       -
ADD'L. FIN.
GAP       -              100.0   100.0   200.0   300.0
$220.7  $321.9  $244.0  $300.0  $325.0  $350.0
DOMESTIC       -    P300.0  0500.0      -        -    P700.0
b. Funding               Cost To       Relending Rate to
Sources               DBP                PFIs
IGLF,                  10%               13%
AJDF                   10%               13%
WB/Multilateral        10%               13%
Domestic Sources       15%            3-year maturity
c.    All sources assumed to carry 5-year grace period; only interest to be paid.



ANNEX 3.02
- 73 -                     Page 9 of 10
d.    Repayment of existing ADB/IBRD and countryside bills to follow actual
maturity schedule as follows:
1989   1990  1991   1992   1993   1994
CSB            150    137   105      85     -       -
IBRD/ADB       146      64    37     35     35      35
296    201   142    120      35     35
6.    Branch Privatization
a.    All five (5) RDBs to be  set up in 1989; 25% of total equity to be
sold in cash end 1989 and 45% in 1990.
b.    The retained equity holdings, in common stocks, assumed to earn 12%
p.a. in dividends.
c.    Outstanding bills payable to DBP of RDBs to be paid over 10 years
at 13% interest p.a.
d.    Projected balances sheet for 1989 assumed to include RDBs.  DBP is
still the majority shareholder.
7.    Fixed Assets (Premises/Others)
Acquisitions (ITN/COSMOS)    1989 - 9 222 MM
1990 -    53 MM
Provision for Annual       )  1991 -    30 MM
)  1992 -    30 MM
Capital Assets           )  1993 -    30 MM
)  1994 -    30 MM
Depreciation             - over 5 years
8.    Foreign Exchange Rates
1989 - 9 22.29 : $1        1992 - 9 24.09 : $1
1Q90 - 9 22.97 : $1        1993 - 9 25.04 : $1
1991 - P 23.70 : $1        1994 - 9 25.04 : $1
SOURCE: 1989-1992 - CRC "Economic Briefing to DBP" in
Oct. 1988
1993-1994 - Assumed 4% inflation rate



- 74 -                     ANNEX 3.02
Page 10 of 10
9.    Operating Expenses
Projected expenses are on accrual basis.   Accrued interest and other
financial charges during the quarter shall be paid the next quarter.
Operating expenses (interest, personnel and other administrative expenses)
of the RDBs are excluded beginning in 1990 when DBP's equity shareholdings
are assumed to be down to 30%. A reduction of nearly 700 employees will
result from the branch privatization, which will cause the reduction in
salaries and other personnel expenses in 1990. Thereafter, a 5% growth
in all administrative expenses is assumed.
10.   APEX and IGLF Existing Portfolio
APEX existing portfolio (PAs only) of P 592 MM assumed to be transferred
during 1989. Transferred liabilities assumed to be equal to transferred
portfolio.  Repayments amount to P 21 IDM per annum.
IGLF existing portfolio of P 1.90 B assumed to be transferred in 1990.
Transferred liabilites equal transferred portfolio.  Repayments amount to
P- 100 MM per annum.
11.   Cash Dividends to National Government
Cash dividends to be paid to the National Government is assumed to be in
the following rates:
Year
1990             10% of Previous Years Net Income
1991             12%
1992             15%
1993             15%
1994             15%



_   -5 _        ANNEX 3.03
~~~~~~L                16
I  ff~ ~~ilit S    EI 
|}~11 .  1iiE
Luljjj



-76 -
ANNEX 3.04
PAGE 1 OF 6
PHILIPPINES
MANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
POLICY STATEMENT
Objectives
1.01 The Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) has substantially completed
its rehabilitation and financial strengthening program which aimed at
making  it a viable  and self-sustaining financial  institution.   The
principal objective of DBP is now to provide medium and long-term financing
to the private sector. The DBP hopes to attain this objective by evolving
into primarily a wholesale bank, i.e., an institution channelling funds
to other financial institutions for on-lending to private business
enterprises. As a wholesale bank, DBP shall help fill a major gap in the
financial system of the country: the provision of long-term credit to the
private sector.
1.02 More specifically, DBP will:
a.    bring together providers and users of medium and long- term capital;
b.    help develop the  capital markets by promoting medium and long-term
capital market instruments (e.g. bonds) to which institutional and
individual investors can subscribe;
c.    relend the funds it mobilizes primarily to accredited financial
institutions which will act as lending conduits for on-lending to
enterprises;
d.    act as a major conduit  for,  and manage,  official development
assistance funds which the private sector will use;
e.    manage industrial sector credit programs funded by multilateral
development financial institutions; and
f.    undertake all other activities which are conducive to achieving its
broad aims and objectives.
1.03 DBP will gradually expand its wholesale lending activities in line with
the objectives stated above; the gradual reduction of its retail lending
in relative terms will be undertaken in an orderly manner. Over time, DBP
plans to leave most retail development lending to other financial
institutions such that DBP's outstanding portfolio will have a
predominantly wholesale configuration by the end of 1993.



ANNEX 3.04
PAuG Z OF 6
- 77 -
General Operational Principles
1.04  As a development bank, DBP has to submit to the test of financial
viability. Thus, it will pursue policies that wtll ensure a sound capital
structure and the generation of sufficient earnings to cover costs, earn
a profit margin, build up appropriate reserves and protect its equity base
from erosion.
1.05  The wider social consequences from the developmental role the DBP must play
dictate that while it has to pass standard market tests, it also has to
assess its operational and financial results in terms of their economic
and developmental impact.
1.06  DBP will operate on an equal market footing with its private sector
counterparts.   These two fundamental principles of ensuring financial
viability within a competitive market framework and of continuing to play
a developmeat role Jointly define the place DBP will occupy within the
financial system. As a financial institution with a development mission
and as a development  institution with  financing responsibility and
viability, DBP is a development bank with the usual functions and duties
of banks under the thrift category.
1.07  DBP shall increasingly concentrate on wholesale lending activities in close
partnership with private financial institutions duly accredited by the
Central Bank according to pre-agreed criteria from.  The accreditation
criteria shall includes  (a) a track record of profitable operations and
sound capitalization; (b) an ability to maintain a sound and healthy
portfolio as shown by the institution's level of arrearages; (c) a
qualified management team of good reputation and (d) adequacy of trained
staff, established systems and procedures to be an efficient and reliable
purveyor of retail credits.   DBP shall be active in syndication with
private banks and shall work closely with them to efficiently on-lend
development  funds  to  the  private  sector.    DBP  will  premise  its
participation in the syndicate on the need to ensure that program lending
is fully carried out and to cover gaps that private banks may not be able
to fill.
1.09  Except when specifically allowed under Monetary Board (MB) regulations or
by virtue of agreements that the Government and DBP will enter into with
multilateral or bilateral institutions, DBP will not enjoy special
privileges. Thus,
a.    Its obligations will not enjoy government guarantees;
b.    It will have no preferential access to the funds of the Central Bank;
c.    It will not benefit from special tax privileges;
d.    It will not enjoy undue preferential treatment for deposits of the
Philippine government and of Philippine bovernment corporations;



ANNEX 3.04
- 78 -
e.    It will not receive  additional government equity to cover losses
that DBP might incur in the future.
This would not preclude DBP however, from akranging for equity increases
from the National Government which may become necessary to maintain a sound
capital structure as its development lending activities increase.
1.09 DBP will have a private sector orientation with autonomy in its
decision-making within the regular regulatory framework and significant
private sector representation in its Board of Directors.
1.10 DBP will avoid lending to the public sector.
Rehabilitation Period
1.11 Although its rehabilitation has been substantially completed, DBP
reiterates its commitment to carry out the remaining elements of its
rehabilitation plan.   DBP will scale down the number of wholly-owned
branches, agencies and offices it will maintain from the current level of
70 to 15. The pooling of its remaining branch network into five regional
development banks for privatization is to be given top priority. Through
the process of privatization of these regional development banks, DBP shall
gradually give way to increasing private sector participation through
equity holdings. A target for such private sector participation is set
at 25Z of the total equity base of the five (5) regional development banks
combined in 1989 and 45Z in 1990.  By the end of 1992, DBP shall have
reduced to minority position its holdings in each of the five regional
development banks.
xnvvetment Policies
1.12 DBP shall adopt a lending policy that would achieve a balanced regional,
sectoral and industrial distribution of its funds consistent with national
development priorities.  DBP shall gear its financial help towards the
promotion of economic development of the country. This will relate tot
a.    provision of its funds for investment and working capital purposes;
and
b.    establishment of new enterprises and expansion/rationalization of
existing enterprises.
1.13 In its lending activities, DBP shall adopt an interest rate and fees policy
that:
a.    ensures full recovery of all its direct and indirect costs, including
provisions as required, plus an adequate profit margint and
b.    is consistent with prevailing market rates for loans of
similar maturity and risk.
1.14 For its retail lending, DBP shall base its investment decisions on its own
analysis of the viability of the project and the enterprise. Towards this



APPEX 3.04
- 79 -                       PAGE 4 OF 6
end, DBP will apply specific lending criteria that include lending only
to projects with (a) proponents of good credit standing5   (b) sound
management; (c) satisfactory financing and marketing plans; (d) adequate
financial rates of return; (e) technical soundness. DBP shall maintain
a Risk Asset Management Manual(RAMH) that sets out credit policies and
procedures embodying these lending criteria.
1.15  For its wholesale  lending operations,  DBP shall  lend only to duly
accredited institutions. It will develop and apply uniform guidelines,
policies and procedures for each loan program to ensure a consistent
approach in dealing with accredited institutions. DBP will rely on the
credit judgment of the accredited institutions and not pass upon individual
loan applications, except for large projects involving amounts beyond a
threshold loan amount of not less than 85 million pesos.
1.16  DBP will carry out adequate monitoring of borrowers and will require these
borrowers to keep proper records of accounts and furnish operational and
financial data to DBP as it may reasonably request.
Pinanclal Prudence Limits
1.17 Within the broader limits provided for by law and4 by the DBP Charter
(Executive Order No. 81), DBP establishes the foliowing exposure limits
in order to maintain a prudent and diversified 'Loan portfolios
Except as otherwise agreed by the Monetary Board,
a.     DBP shall limit its total exposure to a osngle client or group of
companies, retail or wholesale, inclumlve of loans, guarantees and
equity investment, to 15 per cent of DIP's unp aitred capital and
surplus.
b.    DBP shall limit its total equity innestments in a single enterprise
to no more than 15X of DBP's own total equity and shall not seek
majority ownership or management control of any entity except in
cases where its exposure in the enterprise is In jeopardy. DIP's
lnvestrment In its operating subsidiaries will be exempt from these
limits.'
c.    Rules fully consLstent with prudent banking traneactLons shall govern
Lisuance of guarantees or similar comitmnts.
1.18  DBP agrees to the transfer to it of the IGLF and Apex Loan programs which
the Central Bank is now managing. After the transfer of the IGLF and Apex
loan programs, DIP shall manage the acquired portfolios on an agency basis
and undertake for lts own account new lending under the programs, applying
its normal investment policies and lending criteria, including protection
against foreign exchange risk.
Operations on An Agency Basis
1.19 DBP may undertake specific lending operations at the request of the
Government in support of government programs/projects. Such operations will
be undertaken only if (i) the Government earmarks funds for such projects;



- 80-                         ANNEX3.04
PAGE 5 OF 6
(ii) the Go-ernment pays the DBP an appropriate fee for undertaking that
function and (iii) such lending does not entail any financial risk for
DBP's own account and the resultant loans are kept off DBP books.
Socio-Economic Proiects
1.20 DBP may constitute each year a portion not exceeding 30Z of its net income
after te- for the previous year into a special fund for loan, equity and
quasi-equity financing of projects of great socio-economic benefit but
which do not fully meet the financial return criteria of DBP's regular
loans. This is clasified as Window III lending. DIP may add back to the
special fund any loan or investment exclusive of earnings, previously made
from the fund and subsequently repaid. DBP will charge an interest rate
for projects in this category that will cover the overhead cost and the
projected inflation rate for the year to preserve the real value of the
fund.
1.21 Within the framework of Window III lending and consistent with its
development mission, DBP seeks to establish long-term relationships, mainly
by lending medium and long-term funds to entrepreneurs engaged in projects
with high developmental impact, but subjected to market discipline. Some
of these projects may be in newer fields and with higher risks such that
private financial institutions may be less willing to commit their
resources into such projects over the medium and long haul.
Retail Operations
1.22  Subject to the predominantly wholesale nature of its operations, DBP shall
continue to engage in direct lending operations where it shall simply serve
as a catalyst, especially in the strategic sectors where the private sector
may still be hesitant to enter iully. But it must ensure that it does not
erode its equity base and that it gradually withdraws from tse economic
areas which the private sector can take over.
Financial Policies
1.25 DBP will ensure a prudent interest rate and maturity match between its
assets and liabilities.
1.24 To ensure high standards of financial management, DBP will maintain a
planning and budgeting system, an effective and efficient system of asset
and liability management, and a liquidity management system.
1.25 To finance its operations, DBP shall mobilize private sector funds and
funds from other government financial institutions such as SSS and GSIS
on market terms.
1.26 To diversify fund sources by investor type and maturitv, the bank shall
introduce appropriate term instruments.
Capital Structure
1.27 The debt-equity ratio for DBP consolidated with that of its subsidiaries



ANNEX 3,04
- 81 -                             PI1EX30
and taking into account contingent liabilities, shall not exceed 51.
1.28  The Bank shall not expose itself to uncovered foreign exchange risks.
Organization and Staff Developwrnt
1.29  tBP will have an effective system of controls, a sensitive and responsive
monitoring  mechanism,  and  a  decision-making  process  that  assigns
accountabilities and respGnsibilities.
1.30  It will also develop technically qualified staff, taking into account the
special skills required for effective fulfillment of its functions. It
will provide a compensation package commensurate with responsibilities
discharged and competitive with private sector remuneration to attract and
retain competent staff members.
1.31  DBP shall maintain its credit committee to undertake evaluation of all loan
proposals which require the approval of the Chairman or the Board, before
submission to either of the latter, without in any manner affecting the
prerogatives of the Chairman or the Board;
Accounts and Audit
1.32 The Bank shall use generally accepted accounting principles in recording
its transactions, consistent with Central Bank regulations. It will have
a private external audit conducted annually.
Modification to the Policy Statement
1.33  The DBP will not change this Policy Statement without prior consultation
with, and approval of, the proper relevant authorities.
1.34  This Policy Statement and any modification thereof, and its implementation
shall be subject to Philippine laws and the rules and regulations of the
appropriate regulatory government entities.



- 82 -                                      ANNEX 4.01
PHIUPPINES
MANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECr
Organhiotfon Chart of MERAICO
BOARD OF DREaDRS|
ICORPORATE SEC.ETAaY 
EXECUTiVE COMMITEE
PRE DENT
AL COUNS                      MEDICAL SERVICS     [ U vY ECONOMICS srAff
[ MANAGERiAL PAYROUL DIV
rLEGAL SERVICES 
1    DEPARTMENT                            [   INSPECTON DM9SION
PATROL DIVISI0 N| PUWJC INFORMATION DIVl
| COMMUNITY RELATIONS DIV
|  CORPORATE AUDITS DIV
TECHNICAL SERVI            CUSTOMER SERVICES       ADMINISMTIVE              MANAGEMENT                  FINANCIAL
GREMNUP                   GROCEP             SERVICE GSOEUP         CSEND    GROP                SESVICES GROUP
SYSTEM  GROSER
CONTQOL  __ASSURANCE
CENTER            STAFF
MAEIALS                    CUYOE - 5                      ;;       MANAGEMiENTI   MANPOWER             PLANIN
MANAGEMENT  I             SeiERVICES              SERVICES     | SERVICES           PLANNING  |H AND CONTROLI
|DEPARTMENT                 PLANNING STAFF             PLANG SrAF|AFF   FF    l ZAND            |||DEPARlrMENT|
ENGINEERING              CENTRAL        |       GENERAL                            STAFF
DESIGN                   COLLECTIONS            SERVICES                                            TESR
DEPARTMENT               DVISION                DEPARTMENT                                          DEPARMEW
I            wT M        CUSTOMER       | | | EMPLOYEE                    COMPUTER
PLANNING                 SERVICES QUAUITY       AN  EVBDEPARTMENTEPRrE
DEPLANNINT       |         |ASSURANCE SAF       DEPARTMENT
PERSONNEL
NORTH  SPECtAL BIWNG                                  ~~~~~~MANAGEMENT
DiSTRifBuTiON             ANALYSIS STAFF                                    DEP ARAGMEIM
DEPAMMEW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EARMN
SOUTH                    NORTH-EAST
DISTRiBUTION   |B ERANCHES                |
DEPARTMENT               DEPARTMENT
EAST                   |SOUTH-WEST 
DSTMSTION   |          q  gANCHES         |
DEPARTMENT               DEPARTMENT
OPERATIONS   |             SALES SEW1CES|
DEPATMENT                DEPARTMENT
Idd  oI *-43944 1



ANNEX 4.02
- 83 -
PHILIPPINES
MANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
MERALCO - Staffing Profile (as of September 30, 1988)
Organizational grouping                         Number of staff           Percent
Office of the Chairman of the Board                     20
Office of the President                                582                    8
Technical Services Group                             Z,972                   42
Customer Services Group                              2,002                   29
Administrative Services Group                          557                    8
Management Manpower Services Group                     267                    4
Financial Services Group                               298                    4
*         Seconded Staff                                           83                    1
Manpower Pool                                           11                    -
Probationary Staff                                     180                    3
Temporary Staff                                         62                    1



ANNEX 5.01
- 84 -                                Page 1 of 15
PHILIPPINES
MANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
MANILA ELECTRIC COMPANY
Annual Financial Statements and Proiections 1984-95
Table of Contents
Page No.
Key Financial Indicators                               ....    2
Income Statement ....................................................                       3
Cash Flow Statements                                ....    4
Balance Sheet .......................................................                       5
Common Stock Summary                                ....    6
Share Valuation Ratios                               ....    7
Restructuring Agreement Requirements                          ....    8
Principal Assumptions                               ... ....   9
Assumptions to Financial Projections ...............................      .                13



AMlIM 5.01
f'1hL.PPINES
KELRR POEP DISTRISUTI2I  PROJEET                                                                      Palo 2
2.11L ELECIRIC cEP                                                                                  ot 1!
196439"5  VEY FIOMt4C62 INDIEATIS
Financial Ter E*Mdec. 'I                                                        199         2q6        :96         2967        919         1989       2990        1991        1M         1M          l994        1993
* * ------Aktual - - --                  -----           ---        ---        _ _  f  t        - - 
"ERSI SMIS  IBM,)                                                            6 42.d      I 679.5    7 93s.      AM61.0    14 313.2   1t 54.0   12 340.0        s 310 .    14 340.0   15 420.0   16 530.0   Ir 690.0
SOU   ffE        ICtvs. /IlN)                                                 itO.66      179.I1     169.49      165.33      159.59      163.24     166.20      In.95        117.00                719.60      193.00
EWITAL EIPENITUIES                                                             562.0       420.0      636.0       702.0       746.7    1.135.2    2.54.2    2,139.0        1,95.9    1,930.3    1,992.5    2,341.3
WIIITIS 2U   fE15                                                          12,o29.0   14.1l5.0    13,455.0   14,943.0   16 4se. s      9.'I7.9    20.'A2.3   23,019.6   25.112.0  23,15.4    Slt407.0   34,141.7
P501I11 E59261                                                              10.679.0   1335.1.0   12.M0.0   1'.663.0   15.43.    27,679.2   19,220.6   21,6.    23,19.3   26,193.6   23,6.    31,14.
IPATIE O1                                                                    05l.ki t14.0   12 0.0    I'160.               1 964.*    1.07997    1,321.7       1   .1    2,019.7    2, 41.9    2,323.9        2 6
NET  151  f (LOSS)                                                            2231.0)      170.01     244.0        0.0        693.9       712.2      99.4      1,19.6       ,7        .7 2,2.     2760        3,1.3
P1A NE 7e3t71-.    9,229.    10,504.3   11,419.7   122209.2    24.136.5   16,730.6    19,433.9   22,111    24,744.0    2 ,4.    30 ,1.
TOTAL 11111                                                                  9,101.0   11.A3'.   13.526.2   13.716.0   14,643.4    16,:631.5   19.33.6    21,670.5   24,17.    2746.    31476    36,063
REIIIIED 1511115                                                               119.0       223.0      775.0    1,411.'.    2,422.6    3,242.6    4,352.9    6,069.6    6,14.           10:1.5    14,42.    1121.6
FItl^AL 211710:
Current Ratio                                                               0.52        ,,.47      0.63        0.77        0.6         1.13s      0.6         1.21        1.42        2.0         2.69       3.20
0t"ITot.Cap.  Ii No Renl. Surplus                                             423         243        m7          403         So0         261        2           2n          19t         In          143        123
2) U00 Rual. sogl,'                                            633         542        t6% 672                 462         S6         3           323         m           241         191         5t
hick  stiao                                                                 0.46        0.42       0.57        0.69        0.B7        1.01       0.E5        2.06        1.24        1.65        2.43       2.94
ht Profit  hriogt                                                             -23         et          22         3n           42         43          53          n           n           92         n 29
ltweet CEorage                                                            -1.36      -0.06        1.26        1.61        1.5E        2.60       2.05        2.82        3.90        7.62       11.40      17.65
Return 0 Rate Base                                                          4.762       P.62o      9s.4%      10. 'I       9.63        7.M12      9.132      10.832      10.013      11.192      10.652      10.16
Detht S'v,tk  Eoveap Aat,e                                                  0.06        4.06       11.62       0.98        2.31        2.32        1.37       2.65        2.72        3.47        6.46       6.46
Selfftununlig Ratio                                                         -Itt?         s:z       2801        -99s        157           1           2         322        6an         ISI2        1703        266i
wiwatin  Ratio                                                                972         9422                   902         92         922         9n2          92         672  n1                 o5n         en
kcmnts RKeulvable - Ibnths                                                  V.19        2.0?       2.06        1.87        1.64        1.55        1.54       1.48        1.43        1.38        2.35        l.2
Accounts Payable - Kutbs                                                    1.0.!       1.52        2.59       0.92        0.90        0.71       0.74        0.12        0.69        0.69        0.66       (.6!
fltfltctttt:sU=sflSnttlhl.s:,-lt.ttt::t: rns::s:::::tS tr:=:a::B:::::s:t:tg:tt:t'*5m:s:==tStl_0=5st , ,Wtttrt77==tS0t's...........



FPIIL3PPIUES                                                                                 -1I    3.01
L         PUWPR DISTRIIJTIUN PRECT                                                                             his I
mIo -asuc wmv                                                                                              1o 35
3994-1995  ONUL  Zimam  ITATEIEWS
Fiold  Yew  aehd Dec. St                                                               3964         1995          906       13997         1993         1m           1990        1991         3992         1993         1999         19
---ta--------------
------------- - - ---------- ------ ---- ------- -- --------- -------- -------- rjte- --- ------------
?sflCtflttflflt lCst?ftts fltt.fl:rst:,..,.:.Bt=ttSS=:=ttB lS S                                                                                 w    l*stllD1swl1l_ X                                Wttg t*SS
31831 EWEWI                                                                          33.029       34,365      33.55        14,343      .16.459       19,779      20,542       23,020_   25,932          20,935      3,401        14,142
VIUT1WI EUPESEE
Pvrtasg  Pour                                                                      9.4114      11,914      10.116       11,372       12,619       14,55       1556         16,7531      19,060       39,42       20,313       22,279
guciatim                                                                             273          3           470          551          670           9          930         A           1,Ot        1                         'M
Taxes mthw  thlanne'a t.                                                             2:9         233                     1,112        149        -w              4s           4nW          5I5         :          I 1           ?013
Prenuesirori Inw  tcn  T_i                                                             0     _            _  _29          340          319          m416                     624        1-,t39       I,69         1,90        2,163
total Owatlf Epiotus                                                          10,9         13,351        2,25        33,663       15.474      17,679       19,221       21,167      23,792       26,3          U,3         3l,345
W TlIt  lawE                                                                            353          914         950        I,190          95         1,100        1,322       1,           2,020        2,642        2,24        2,9?
Ai dledKti
Cerraq  REchoqe iitt AdgUstust                                                                                              59          19           199          144         129            0            0            0            0
FORER Loss t  Interest                                                                                                     (331         399          3393         3233         39)           0            0            0            0
FOES Loss an bowrtiation                                                                                                   (a)          (39)        11501        31211       3123)           0            0            0
Total Icome                                                                       S I34                    9           19----0        5        1, ,100o     1.322        3.953        2,020        242         2,24         2,997
OTWE hEm I MKITIONS
Interest a  Lq-Tern Iebt                                                             *47         307          219          249          534         564          5t5          579          44           369          294         244
Iti tSt on  ort 1l. Dbt                                                              2           637          563          459          Ito          117         152          150           SO           22            2           0
ther Inteet Expone                                                                    '5           le          22           26          3.5           30           I3           16          19           It           19           I9
lnternst locoa                                                                         0            1.          0            0          3593         3303        3123         3393         (24)         (33)         3343         3373
hertuzation of Dbt Espens                                                              4            9           7            9           1s           35           19          39           t9           39 )7                     14        OD
Isterost Charge  to Construction                                                     M'P          't63        342)          3123        3221         (35)        3306i        (91)         179)         '74)         11773        30 
UsKe3ll   so.  IncOs.                                                                '203         Ei)          363)        (50)         3203         324)         M23          132'        (36)         340)         3443         (4n,
E;itv in  t  Enrings of Sbs,d,ar,tn                                                                                                     6131         340)         3401         403         340)        t(O4          340)         (401
Provis,on for lnoui  Tai                                                                                                               32413        3249)        3256         MUI         3194          13263        393          id)
Fnwhtontor~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~......   ......z -- --                -----  -------- -! -------    --------    --------    -------   -------                              ----- -tttl--   -    ---
Total De*t,timos-Wt                                                               S9.         994          706          690          29t          397         329          334          240          139           49          (1)
NET ItCOIIE (LuSS) BEFORE EITIUERDIMARV ITEN                           t:2li         (70)         244         50(          694          ?12          993        1,520        1.780       2,523        2.776        3.034
Estrarwdaist  Item - Saon a Sale o  F.A..                                                                                                                           0            0           0 g                       0            0
WET E       t I  OWE  tM t..                                                                                   4          50': X9!                  712           q'        1.520      13780         2,523        2,776        3,014
tttSC:ttfltflzUutflsts:ttt.n:s::..t...........e............n........,....:.n.,.....
RETAINtED EAPKIWES
oeomno lilace                                                                           617          IN7          223          775       1,411        2.426        3,243        4,353       6070         9,145       11.102       14.463
tdd:  Wt IntesI(Loss)                                                                  32S '          70)         244         5We          695          712          99         1,520       13790        2.523        2,776        3.014
Realiztd Relltluton srlus                                                         104          152         236          7,2          395          4           521          61l          '25          B49          997        1.133
Prolr Yew Ad)sstmnt of Intoe tax Prc.                                                                                               199            0            0           0            0            0            0            0
Total                                                                                   49i          261          703       1,577        2,699        3.571        4,757       6,493        8.575       11,517       14,964       i9,615
71,
tnLs: Ca   Dividends - Cosmn                                                            ISO                                      A           0          214          2_1          299          ,01         317          326          5
- Preferred 105                                                                                         1I9            5            0           0            0            0            0            0            0
- Preferred 16?                                                                                                       13           57          58           58            3           42           26           26
PreferredlO 3J2                                                               35           I3          47           71           57          60           62           65           51           vY           52
StoKt DiVitns                                                                                                             0          175            0
Total                                                                                   .12           393                      166         264          329          405          419          430         415          403          413
closing  alm"                                                                           li9          223          775        1.411       2,426        3,243        4,353        6,070       9.145        33,102      14.463      13,202
3805C5 U558A C2ft3tlsttS22tf;lItDDnn2A7t|ltlttStCf=sslf|lft|lCSlg8t3  % e  2  lt- ttX- fgtlCXA



PFtLIPPINES                                                                                A111 5.01
Pow1  DISTRIWI0O  PO T                                                                                        Pw   4
W11 A musiECTPIC CIP6NT                                                                                         r I
1984-I"S tQ5         CAN  FLC W  SH TW A    l S
In4 r,tll" Fncs)
FirinulaV    Ew d wt. 51                                                               1S4          1915         1986         9197        1988         11B9         19W(        1991         1992         1993         I9           1993
----------- -- -- ------ ktud      ----- ------ ------   ---------- ------ - ------rlt tn---------------                      ~~~~- ~ 
CMas Provided lyt
)brtdiu.s -
aewatin? I Other Incm                                                             372         832         9V4         1.230       13246        1.125        1I3M 1,U                  2,01        2,601        2,U7         3,044
ewrec^|tom                                                                        273        3sn           70           557          U7          79e          93         1,32         1,240       1,4          1,S          1,78e
Increase (Oweasel  in Ibrku   Ctit                                               612)        t174        1.154 I      1.30 0'       5            III          (321         316          24           55           52           15
Total Cas  Provided blv   rati                                                   33        1,38         2,58           417       2.433        2,090        2,247        3,282        3,54        4,t172       4,4          4,64
Pref    d      ty ln    - oft                                                         18          M93           77         (63)         121           24           24          24           24         (1713          24           24
Ce_mm E4dt!r        B Is325                                                                                                                                      450           i5            0            O            0            0
Lwq-T      arrmi- World  ant                                                                                                                          531         444         3512         311          263
LoW-Ter orromgi- bnd lss.n                                                                         0         302          350          650          450         450          650            0            0
N EW LOAN                                                                                              0            0           0            0            0            0           0            0
-E F IC                                                                                                                         a            33
-It F                                                                                                                            5          420          35
-   F C                                                                                                              0         300          572
-O   Ct F  -     rSed                                                                                                            0           53          120          421        2n0
-    E C F    Rural                                                                                                                                      104          1O0          123         132          154
Slrt-twru Brrowing  - 8 8  P                                                                                                                           4           34          24           24           I9
Additioal Shwrt-t ru brromon  (Pavunts)                                            .174           204      (1.6251         362         (9821         140           50         11301       1570)        (2201           0            O
Rentrfctured PC Oned. PayaIs                                                                                              8an
Total Sources of Cash   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~--   -   --- --------   -                                            -            ----------    --  --
Total Seurc  l Ego                                                          t1,725        1,494        1,342        1,815       2,m          3,438        4,577        4,795       3.4          6,432        4,643        5,024
Caet Service                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     c
Shwt-awa Laoas
PrinCipal - Existiq  - Local  Xe I Pi                                                                                                                        4           34           24           24           19           0
Isternst                                                                      284          637          560          459          52          107          140          133           66          (1)          (32)        (37)
tLosar toreLm
iecip I - Ei1stin                                                           189           38            0           32            1           0            0            0            0            I           I            I
- onRt ured Loans                                                                                         I'           518         7I9           745         743
eEW  lwo                                                                                                               0            0           0            0            0            a            0            0
- Retructured  P Pastles                                                                                                                                     267          267          267
- 8ond Isusn                                                                                                             0          250          :!3         371 5I                    49S           31          219
-t H                                                                                                                                                                                                 0           14
I f C                                                                                                                                                        34           67           67           67          67
-E F I E                                                                                                                                                                                                         to
- lerd 8ntk                                                                                                                                                                                          2           It
Intmunt                                                                       547          355          219          249          534         54           585          579          411          369         24           2U
Louiet Coeratvm   fIrom  PC                                                        1                                                  34           St 23
Init rst on Entustw  Dwesits                                                      le           19           25           26           35          30           13           16          1U            19           U9          i9
. __... _                                                        _       ... ...   .    ...... _ .     _       -__  __           _
Total kIt  Srut:,                                                            83           e97          802          943        1,174       1,75         1.834        2,177        1,414       1,237          701          55
Caetructiom  Epwdatarn  - Electric                                                   562          420          3           702          747        1,087        1.172        1,045        2*7           88        I,1          2,144
etrcto E              andtUres - 06PIHom-eloctnc                                                                                          0          248          283          324         m              7            0            0
Contrurtio  Exsdatures - wtrld  akh  Projcts                                                                                              0            0          65          536          ale          3              a            0
CmstraKti        edtorts -  wnsed                                                                                                                                  47          t0o          165         216          217
CoUtructi   Ea        wiu   - Pral                                                                                                                                             13;          1229        I            3i           197
vivideadi - Cot                                                                      i                                       0            0          214          287          2"          3            3?           326          336
*Prefrred II                                                                                                     119           5            a            0            0            0           0            00
- Preerd 16                                                                                                                    13          57           5            58          5a           42           26           2
- Prefrrd 201                                                             132           38                        47           71          57           b0           62           is          57           4            52
_                                                                  ..   .  .     _ .    .   __ .  .   _- _---  _ - -  _ . ..
Total lie Of Cab                                                                1.710       1.455        1,434        1,811        2,09         S,416       4.4903       C.M          3,'9S        s,5"         3,09        3,30
tl  ASH  IIcm RIASE                                                      15           39           9            55         213           21           84           62           56         149        1,547        1,714



RAUfLA ELECTRIC CUPUI                                                                                     of 15
19904-299   OWI  SlUICE MMET
Fisanial Yee, Ended Dec. 3kI                                                         1984         1915        1986         1987        299          19319       2990          991        199          1993        194          1995
---- ktat -------------------
UItmiity Plont to Sawvice/21,dgr Construction                                       9.533       12.M9       14,442       17,094      20,421       24.559      29,072       33,560      30,201       43,175      43,603       54.829
KiIltL PlIt not to kSwi:o                                                            374          :14        3174          374         374          374         374          374         374          374         374          374
Ins ukmaltgd Deweciation                                                        2,q74       5.045        1,004       7,500        9,815      22,422z      14,431      16,815       19,32       22,169       25,454       29,171
hbt Iltilat, Plant                                                                  6.93         8,311       ?9,10        9,948      10,910       22,311      14.8114      27,119      29,252       21,361      23,524       4b.033
Perausoo  layetgsts                                                                    47           so         282          195         250          299         290          290         290          290         2            290
Ewrrtnt kuts
Ca,4                                                                               112          151          55          I10         323          335         420          4182        538        1,38?       2,934        4,6481
Shscial posztn                                                                    1IE            28          14           47           0            2           5            7           9           12           14          24
Accauts Ehcivahle - Net                                                         2,012'       2,438       3.336       2,3-14       2,252        2,425       2,638        2,879       3,069        3,306       3,528        3,753
Otber RKcOVARtle                                                                  I249          I!)         274          153         124          124         134          145         153          146         176          187
oub~rlption Recevable                                                                                                                  v.         225          75            0           0            0           0            0
N2aterials I Sopolins                                                              213          312         21           304         298          369         444          514         S78          641         706          781
Prepapuets                                                                           i           21          25           10         129          129         131          132         133          135          136         131
Total Cvreat ksses                                                            2.65        3.080        2.949       2,938        3,204       3,610       31,84?       4,118        4,483       5,447        7,494        9.52
Other Assets                                                                           44           81         149           89          115         124          134         143         153          143          172         182
Other Dhfsrrd Debits                                                                    24         27,         436          524         445          296         253            0            0                       iOa)le
Total kssets adi Other Debits                                                       9,701       22.803      13,524       13,716      24,843       24,632      29,339       21,470      24,2711      27,460      31,480        Writ2
Frogi9stary Cqital                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C
meterd Stock                                                                    520         427          503          440         541i         55          609          433         457          481         505          299
ComonStock                                                                         234          -34         254          254         429          459         499          509         509          59           s0o         509
SubscribedPregwrgd StKck                                                            2!           25          It           50         238          238          59           59          59           19           59          5
S%bscribed ri'rn. StWc                                                                                                                 C          :25           75           0           0            0            0           0
Prism    on Sale of Cuam  Stock                                                     51           51          51           51          51          346         756          821          B21         821         321          Mt1
A rulsl Sutrplus                                                                 1,397        2.5811      3.436        3,33 Z       ,716        4,110       4,463         ,203       5,Al7        6,413        7,170       7,83
knteead farnhas                                                                    279          223         775        1,421       2,426        3,243       4.1153       6,0170      8.145       11,202       14.443      28,202
Total Proprietary Cupital                                                    2,424       3,5b2        5.230       5.546        7,421       9.20        11,014       13,,295     16,008       19,430      2352         23,004
Loaq-Irs Debt - Rit of furrmnt Raturities                                           1.245        1.143       :.O.,:       :,86        3.209        3.161l       3.239       3,819        3,318       4.054        3,65?       3,648
Carrost Usbilities
krceuts Paabit                                                                     894        .,ot8       2.696        1,052       2,033        2.353,      2,919        1,274        1,374       1.4sf        1.579       1.690
Ntots pai  Ie                                                                    2.7149       ;,9315      I.31..       i1.6'         690          934         924          "74         204          (21,         (40)         %40)
Accrued Istwrot Payable                                                            ;Gb                      335          265         I"1          192          186         102          161         li          l8t          181
Cutup  Donsts                                                                        4            4           4                        4           12           ?2                       28          34           40          45
kccrud laxns                                                                                     484                                  1,93                    205          118          22          146          159          172
Inceme laxes Payable                                                                       qb            C.~~~~~~~~~~~~~9   84  204         154          335         425          483          541
m libab pAvable                                      17            6                        1) ~      ~~ ~         ~~~~~~~~~~ 29  36  36     37           38          32           24           26i
Current Waturities al i.2q;-Tera Oth,                                            1,059        i,543         III          723       1.276          m8e       1,415          821         833          401          329         327
Otkwr Currant L.abil;t:v,                                                           28           :I          83           32          24           25          27           28          29           3I           32           33
Total Carreot Liabilities                                                    5,1118      4,593        4.612        S.62Q       3,232       3,2M         3,994        3,423       3,153        2,704       2,798        2,976
Other Liabilities                                                                     414          504         591          488         991        1,036        2.090       1,'4         1,29        2,253        1,307        1.36
Total Liabilittus sd Other Crtdits                                                  9,701       22,803      13,524       12,716      14,843       16,e32      29,339       21,670      24,178       27,460       31,480      76,026



PNtLPPINES                                                                             ll 5 .01
rAII. MDE  DISIU1IUTION PIOJET                                                                          Pap O
WNILA ELECIRlt CW1                                                                                      of 15
194-lnr5  tn ST=  ISARY
(ir Nillien Pess
fiunacial VOar EO   Det. ti                                                         184         595         1986        198?         1908        1989        1990          9         1m9          199         19          1995
---- ----c tual ---                    ----------------Pr-   ---------     -     a--hjgctiMS - ----- ----------------------------------
nStflflUCtfl     ....U .........tt.fl ..m?tstC.fl.                                                                                                                  Rw9x8"*M..Sr
Como  Stock, iaw   I                                                                254          254         254         254         254         429          45          4             9         5so          509         S0
Stolk Doi9Po  (kStWr 1)                                                                     0                  0                     17e
Comn Stock Eqity at Par                                                               '0                       (           0           0           so                      to           0            0           0           0
Cotse  Stocl, Iecue*r 31                                                            254          254         254         254         429         459          49           0          s           w 50         590
towutatis of bhised Cis% lo iengs
2 I criat  In Camor" Stock                                                      0.00Q        o.on        t.OOt       0.00      68.901       6.9          9.72        2.001       D.00M        0.00L       0.00,       0.001
koupaUl Cash  ividus4s                                                                                                                         250         250         250         250          20          m           210
vtsse Ctnb Dividends                                                                                                                          267          237         2"          m0e            I         321        3S
SUar  of  itwstv Issue  (Osrktt1
total Earolop  er Sture - Prior  ear lPesosi                                                                                                24.01        23.71       29.16       40.74       47.95 4i5. i            00.9%
[s"e Price     - S Tien Prior  art EPS IPesosI                                                                                             125.00      150.00       145.79      203.69      239.77       325.67      364.30
Vilu of Eott  Ists. lfNliloi FPeso)                                                                                     0           0          250         S0o           0           0            0           0           0
Ito of Sare   sswd (million?                                                                                         0.00        0.00         2.00        2.00        O.Q         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
Can Stock EritY At P                                                    r                                               0           0           20          20           0           0            0           0           0
Pritls  sn Come    Stack                                                                                                0           0          230         280           0           0            e           0           0
Sas   eo  Eatt t s hIsst  'eplce
Total Earninp wr Share - Prior Year iPem)                                                                                                   2411         23.71       29.t6       40,74        47.95       95.1 s      n.9
Issw Prce - 4 Ties PriOr Teair ES ;Peos,                                                                                                   100.00       100.00      I00.00      162.95       191.82      260.53      291.0
V1lst   Equity lss  iNlillion Pewso                                                                                     0           0            s         150          n            o            0           0           0
Ut. of Shares Issoeo  Isilior.1                                                                                      0.00        0.00         0.o7.       1.0         0.75         0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00
CaOMMr Stack Equity a' Par                                                                                              0           0           10          20          to           0            0           0           0
Prmehrin s Corie StotA                                                                                                  e           0                      130          65           0            0           0           0
n,tntthf.mnty#eSn_ .=::sts:nt=t:.ns..fl.:nns.:n:.:::,                                                           r.n.fl.ss=-:-:.t=sns-stennnnnnB es.s.         tWC,f sssan.sa          s.     cm.Snn...s      esf.   .h.sc.



AM= 5.01
lUNILU  PM1E  92SlPI1TIOl PROJECT                                                                             Pap
PUILU  ELECtRIC tLi                                                                                         04 Is
2984-19S5  SW     MO TILUATNP RATIoS
(Ir NlUI:un Psan,s
uasial lowv Esdd OK. 31                                                                1984         192         2986         1967         1998         I9S9        1290         l9           I992         MI93         I994         2995
_i  OF P  3     VAUE PEA SWi OF COM    STOEt,
Total Prapresnt   rCoital                                                         2t424        .256U        5.226        5,54S        1,421       9,206       11,014       134295       1o006       19,416       23.53       23,04
Less: Prefurrad StKb Equit%
Prefrred StaKh                                                                   520          427          503          440         5s1         5so           609          633         67           431          505          52
SiaKribed Preferred StKu                                                           2!           5           It           59         238          233           59           SS9                      59           3            59
D niueds on Preferred Stwo                                                       87           87           i7           e87          4           57           f            62           i5          57           4S           52
Prefsr?ed StacK Esiaty                                                        60           539          U02         516          849          Bet          729          755         72I          5u7          114          64
lash Vsl    f Cof      Stask                                                       1.794        .02;        4.6S9        4.962        6.572        .325       10.216       12540        13,W        185,2        22,914       27,3M
per of rSaS tSarf  Isssued aimaOutstaidang                                                         8            8           25           .4           44          48           16           51           51           51          51
Bu   WILI  oER SeME Of :tOn  7T1D                                             :2:.sS9      !56.93       54.93        195.39      192.47      127.54        214.77       246.85      2".20        370.43       450.23       57.U
Appralul Surplus                                                                   I.I97       2.581        3,136         .3          :,lt        4,10         4.663        5,203        5,617       6.47        t7,1O         7,.114
80Dt Value lIt ef Rea1utioao3                                                        397         41          993        1,t29        2.851        4.215       5.623        7.33,        9,410       12,374      15,743       19,480
80  VAIIE PER SNARE 2ET OF fEVALi!TA!ON                                            46.t9       5i.0'       121.1         6U.15        83.65       94.96       117.41       145.61       184.91       243.15      30.34        782.76
..fl.....2....~~-- --- - ==fn;,t....:
CEIIIJTTIO  IF E3II548 PER StARE  OF CONMM  STOCi:
bt Incos  far the Year                                                              Q2:!          06)         244          509          694          712         993        1.52f)       1,73(        ;.523        2,t76        3.914
Lnst  Dvidends on Preie1d StccI                                                       e7          87           87                         9 4S7 '                 e                         c5           57           4S           S2
But 14cs  Ovai able  fat  ommon Stock                                               '318)        4157'         257         41          644          655         934        1.457        1,715        2,466        2,n7         2.96
Ralized  evalution Surplus                                                           Ir'4         152         236          i2           S85          4           521          616         r75           t49          937        1,153
Ie_   of Coma  Shasn Isied and Outstanding                                            z            i5          25           25           4            46           50          5t           51           51           St           51
E4332439 PER 9WIE AVAIABLE. FOP  'ASH 2.1'1tEE                                       -12.5.        -6.19         6.1S       16.26        tS.02        11.27        16.71       28.64        33.7?        49.45        53.58        58.21
T-z ---                  szc.:e.t:et .. M-  ts...s......., ...ns:n.cn.              . .:. sn          ..:;sts.n tt,..:n ...c...e... a...
GOh:  SALlAEO REVALUATION SPWLUS PER SHAFE                                             4.09         5.S.        9.29        11.89         1.8           .44        10.45        12.10       t4.25        16.68        19.39        22.36
nns .nn.s.....,...s.t.;                                                 .*.n-..----             U.......::ttt               t. . ...             ..   ....StZt...fl.Stt:Slt.Z.Sttfllffftft..S..        ..ta.ftnn...n
TOAL EAtNIS PER  SHARE CF C(2I0  SOC                                               -8.42       -0.20        I5.49        29.15       21.4. .1   23.72            .2         40.74        47.9n        65.13        72n96        80.57
r ~ ~    ~    ~                    fltsGGwsSw=:::s:::S=:S=:=::          :::flt==:=stn..a - t..t.t=s=fw::==S S*:* sh.nr.:*s.=safnn::nnnnn:wlsS2    a SeG Sts=ss.n               nn Gase.nnSSSt       ns  n.= ta .s.ss=.g*tSr.



PHfILI90INES                                                                                 *    m 50
ILA P5R DISTRIBUTTION FRUltT                                                                                    lap0
11A11   ELECTRIC COFUt                                                                                         If15
6EST    TUP1IU AUREEUI  R6EIIDETS
(is Ihblso Puce
FlsaiL st  r Esd Pc. 31                                                                  19F4                      1915 I9       97          isee         1919        IO9          Is n9m                    i9           IN4          195
ctul-_tl---------------------- -------------
Oeartlag loco s                                                                        351           14          950 "      1,190          955        1.100        1,322        1.3          2.020        2,642        2,624        2,99
Total                                                                              371          532        1,011        1.230        1,003        1.133        1,30.2        1,192       2,079        2,j2          2,91         3,011
an..    Isn    ussua                   issr=sin .m m             Wsussan   .SfbtSt   wsSfSSf                SsSaf   s .ng DD_sBa  insf _ 
otaint ud Fiucalal Chargn
laturnt cm Lool-tare kIt                                                           347          303          219          249          534          50.4          V           579          464          30.9          294          244
lutrnt an W rt-taro  Dibt                                                          285          037          501          459          110          1I?          ..2           1500                       22           2 
Othar Intwrest ECpe.t                                                               15           to           22           26           35            50           i3          10            19           1t           19           19
Internt E rwp   to  onsl ructton                                                   (49)        (l5)          (42)         (12)         (221          (35)        (10.)        (911          (791         (74)         (71)         103
kt Iotrant EIauLs                                                               591          693          7tO          722          t57          074           45            5          514           30           23          It1
Ai:  Amrtizatio0  of Debt Erponu                                                         4                         7            8           15           35           19           19           IQ           19           17            la
total                                                                                 602          92            7s67         '30          671          711          664          674          24          35           254          Ir5
StS.sm   ... . ..   s..... =-  f. . ..n    ......1 z.X.  ttst..fltltta =-n.    fh.                             nh..tf   ttattn           ==*nt.
INltE5t  COVERAE RATIO                                I1.6l                                      92.21       13.1?   U 66.St           158.53       1'9.52       2t1.01        32.412       36.          70.2.1t     110.11    170.4.1
IIIIIII REIRMEIT PEF FES%!UCTURIR6 ASPEEKEIT                                        O0.01      l0t).tl      1C0.Ot       100.01        100.01       IC0.0       lOV.('2       100.01       100.'42      I 0".0       103.02       1;.0*
,n.         ..... ... .  . .==                         tt - - -- - -
COIIIATION OF PIT LIZIT"A PA':L3!
140t4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
Fr#erred 51cc'                                                                     5:.         4K;           30           440           561         5'.           SO9          633          05           4fE          505          529
Coum    Stott                                                                      254          254           54          254           429          459          49           5-           5uq          509         X59           SO
Subscribed Preterred Stari                                                          525                        1'          '9           235          26            59           59           59           59           59           59
Premiu m anSale of Co no. St,ik                                                     Si           21           51            !I           51         340          -50           921          621          321          321          921
Rtained Earnapgs                                                             .       9 !                     ".5        1.4,!        2,42.        3,243         4,353        6,0_         8.145       114102       14,4c        16,202
Total Eou:it                                                                  i.027          9O        1.595        2.215        3,705        4,6?1        6.276        6,092.      10,192        12,972       16,257       20,120
Logl-ter  Debt I1urrent1kn-Current:                                                 1,70.        ,I151         3,033        '.0.1        4.365        4.041        4.*,4        4,t39        4,651        4,454        4,1t3        4,011
Lass: Uar^luteaI   FORE! L.s (Other Ofd.  t*tsi                                         14          272          436          5226         46!          290          25-            0            0             0           (o )0
Admtd Loo-ters Det                                                                   1,746          87         2,590        3,135        3.920        3,705        4,402        4.639        4,051        4,454        4,130        4,011
-- --- -     .. ..  _.... ..  --- -- --  ---------  --    ------   --- -- -     -- - -- -    --- -- --    ---.-...-_-__-__  _    _ _
Hates Paqal6                                                                        2,'49        -,955        1.310        1,673          690          834          914          774          204           (2)          (40)         (40)
'iotal Ceottal                                                                5,524        4,793        5.501        7.022        5.314        9,471       11,52        13,55        15,00         17,405      20,503        24,091
CtITALIZAtIk  RATIO                                                              1U.U          . 20.4?      29.0?        31.51         44.6U       51.41         54.12        59.9n        t7.7;        74.51        79.0t         53.5?
M1INIM  RED. PER RESTRCtURWI  06REENIENT                                          20.02        20.02        20.02        20.01         20.01        25.0t        25.0t        25.01
w:n=B:*Dsgs:S::_:D::::::::::=::::e:                   s    =X:::s::::S=:::s:::::=::::::|:s:s::t::t:gawBssswn-a:X:r   asD :tasssm#X::7DS..........sss5#



 S.O1
P331LIWIUtES-
UILA PME DIISTRIDIDTION P ECT                                                                             losp,
11114  ELECTRIC CUPAU                                                                                 of 1
3984-1995  PRCIPFL ASSWIItNtS
tin Cilliso Peo)
Fifatciai lear ERm   Dec. '1                                                       1M5 15                   193         13          193         19SI9        190         1991        1992        19           1994        1915
--- ktol -----------                           - ----   ProKctiM                     -------------------------
1. Groftla Rate in Sales (KW1'                                                    -3.02?      -6.51S       0.75?       1.%%         15.01     11.55S       1 7.441     7.69         7.          7.55        7.20i       '.021
2.  E   Sales imillmiol                                                           B.42E       7,979        7,93       59,967      10.1'3      11,54       12,30        il,310      14,30       15,420       10,560      17,69
I.  Icrems ian G    r Exuen                                                        3I.32       12.3?        23.         19.72       26.61        3.7n       14.31        3.0?        U.n         17.3t       17.21        17.01
4.  Inflation Rate                                                                                                       0.01        7.51        9.01        9.01         3.O0        L.01        L.           L.es        LK
5. Cqital Eoandatrn fin Rilito resosi                                               562         420          636         702         1?7       I,5         2,254        2,13        3,95         ,9          I,92        2,341
e. Itstrnt 0 Eo s Ihrepl
) Loe -terst    Fora  v7.00%                                                              13.00?       9.31         9.061         121         12?          U2S         12t         121         l2t          12m         12
- Morala      ;oan                                                       5 t1n- yace/I  ir. r utl  .IS                                                  III         III         IL%         IIS         III
-  VFt  Loan 1       5 ,rs. gate, 15s rs. '-N      utnated 01173.2531 3.81 111                                                                                 .      t        6.311       6.11    s    .3?
0 E   tF Loau       I0 irs. race. 20 irs. repavstl *10                                                                       5.01        5.0S        5.011       3.0          5.          5.0         5.02
-  EPF I C   Loan    5 yrs. grace  5 Yrs repabmt  I 4.71                                                                      3.58        3.5?        3.5          3.1         3.51        3.51         3.5
I' 51art-tare
1) Loal                                                                      31?        4n           211          142         in          in          In           In          in          In           In          In
7. bte Iea   (tio   llion Pasn)
0.00 ctvs. Rate InKreas  elf.                                                                                                            0           0            0           0           0            0           0
S.00 ctvs. Rate Intreant o. I0-1-SO                                                                                                                275        1,938       1291        1,4b         l           1,592
14.00 ett. RAte Intreat ef. '-1-92                                                                                                                                         1,004       2,159       2,'t14       2,477
6.00 ctvs. Rate Increase off. 7-1-4                                                                                                                                                                  49        1,063
L. CMII to coer F  debt service above P1Fit SsI
9. berae Exca    Ratn/tS/ItSO.                                                   16.9         39."        20.30       20.90       21.00       21.50        21.50       21.50       21.50       21.50        21.50       2X50
10. IE  LOU     - ntmpg  $101.0 flillion is the
balsce of Rntructured Loan. payable
su-an llv in five yes strting 12/89.
It. Rentrtured  et NC Overdue Pyabesn
P750 Null   lie able  malty mc the
th, 5th      6 th years - 181 interest                                                                               800
12. Asst  AMAsMl           -Jan.J  1999                                                                                                          327
-Jan.  . 1990                                                                                                                   1.0?4
- Jan. 1. I19I                                                                                                                               ,155
Jan. 1. IW.                                                                                                                                             1.360
- Jan. 1. IM                                                                                                                                                         1,510
- Jan. 1. 1994                                                                                                                                                                   1.679
- Jan. It 1995                                                                                                                                                                                1,0
23. lnsace of  omaStudt. ':a0 wi:1am  Pesos)                                                                                                      15          150          75           0           0            0           0
250         300
14. Cas  dividen  on cmn  to antrease  by  S  n r near.
13. Isane of 5-er bnds payable   rterlv                                                                                   50         650         450          450         650           0            0
fer  4  years  t  22  above  lKal  rate.
16. IFt loan -  13 years  Kinldi     1  mers                                                                                                     300          n2
arms.    .S75M  bnternt Rate  - ?l98q1
17. Isuae of 15-314?  5-var redeeale refureds                                                                                        200           0                        0
20-*r-11t
fl.flnnnhn.mln,:,fl.flfltnflsta=ct.                                            NSsS9St WtaSSXSa                                  Ntlt wa                   %  



AUD 5.01
lap  10
1wciKi  lwr ESi  Wt. S3                                                                 19g         1            1M9O         191          12           1093          9Q4         1995
StEDIILE II 1111 SASIS
..~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                        ~.. .____  . . .___
Soaadutual                                                      ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~3.319  3,629  4,325  4,593 4,4  5,1i1       5,474        5,559
Cainrctall                                                                            3.342        3.919        4.174        4524         4,896        5,n4        5 701        * .17
Imdstrlal                                                                             3,548        I 3,94       3.724        4.051        4,422       4.  4         1,          5,125
Sllelrnole                                                                              '0             0           13           1A           14           15           17          1t
Strut Lig,ts                                                                              86          94          125           3           143          156          170          172
lotal                                                                                10.313       11,504       12,30        13,310       14,389      15,420        16,53      17,6W
*=%$.              atz===         =sm."     *B a          =*"         anw*m         =_88
15.01   1   i.55S      107.441      107.691      1017lM       107.531      107.20t     107.02S
uONs v mic IBM
Untiusttal                                                      ~~~~~~         ~~~ ~ ~~~~               ~~~ ~ ~~1.199  702  O5N  912  966  1,025  1,09     1,164
tomwr.la                                                                               1,066       1,58         1695         1,957        1,9          2,150        2,317       2,450
lobatria                                                                                934        1,469        1,434        1560         1702         1,996       1,999        2,127
saleMnals                                                                                  0           0            0            0            0            0            0            0
Strut Liq9ts                                                                              17           0            0            0            0            0            0            0
titil                                                                                 3,217        31,77         ,9           ,0           ,5           ,2           ,9            7
KOM11  IF  CUNFCr ElIlEE 9911 AIIS1O    -MA*)
2B.401      29.401       29.401       p0.99        29.402       29.401       29.401       29,40
hstiid tai                                                                                79         Is           1"           206          211          23           24           263
Cosuita                                                                                   so         456          499          529          573          619          "I1          714
MaMtrlid                                                                                 31          436          420          457          493          50           592         623
kelsnt                                                                            ---- -- 0            0            0            0            0            0            0            0
Total                                                                                    246       1,050        1,102        1,192        1,290        1,391        1,9I,66
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3333 1f211   3333333  23132   133133333133333   31
_ . ... _ __ ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



AM= 3.01
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 "is,
F a l TVrW Euadd Oc. 31                                                               i93          lop         199          3991         9           399         I"4          399
--------P - ------ FroJ ct i   -  -    - - -    ----      -  -  -- -  --------
AIIItlV. DATA G  PICf       D P0R                                                    94.423      91.16?       62.30?      33.01,       33.511      63.11        64.3         54.0n2
Xtu LOsS                                                                             16.763      16.261        15.8          5.U        14.3?        14.31       1LK          3L?
a   'cbamw                                                                      12 211      133001       35 001       10 021      IT7171       1 333        1993        20311
fwt Cast, Stu  Cost A fP91I AdjustbtsAl                                          (002A463   (0.03i)  (0.03157)  (0o.0 5   40.0i1515   (0.0315)  10M.I)  (0.05)
ra. Cost            tEst Aj. I  FUI  aut                                              1303        15021 2       i(5791       619)         (2)        4109)        117511      (301)
bsic Elart CfirgeRlill Por^&S                                                   1.059       1.05W        1           1.0511       L.01        3.091        10          I.0s
hscEu,t~ a     vis/KU2Purtas                                                        8:4fiH      8;4?i        S:?i        S:3 8 4?     8:4ti       o 4?S        8:4?i        8 4N
aic Eawrl  VD Franhis  Tax                                                          ll1,1i2     31,99        13,730      14,664       15,717      13,0         17,9"        19,124
h ofFranchise Tax
Ol huratud  1111aul Statil)                                                              0           0            0            0           0            0           0            0
kcrual   (luldirq  n   Franctse Ta)
f.l CMnt ij.  St.. Cost Mi. I   R E l ount                                            (381         1512)       I591)        (631)        671         (724)        4771)      l(3)
bsic Esp Chvrp                                                                      11,410      12,143       14,036      134,93       10,03        17,19        3,2m        1,5314
Poyul
Fat Cst dj.  StH   Cost  dj. I  FR1E    nt I4401                                                   502)        (5l4)       127)        (0723        1720)       M7D7)        3153l
bas   Enwp E;rp                                                                     I1.53       12,0F2       13,90        14,334      15,948       17.075      13,201       19,413
bdc Ea         Chr                                                                  12 m        13763 7      3 580        13695        o 179       19 460      20 736       22 1'9
Fwl Cast Cij., Sa East Ii. I  FUEI buut                                               1314;        1502)       1579)        16139       1662i        17091        1116        l30)
ntlat  Prcohasd Por                                                                 12,619      13,261       15,307       16,341      17,515       13,751      1998         21,312
Su-kbujle 2
LKClU              ilF GENIERIATINlE iEOUIUEN
totl kcrul                                                                           9.03       11,631       13,425       14.332      15,362       16.44       17,524       10.692
burial
Total bural                                                                         9.259       11.409       13,276      14.257       15,Z76        6,35       27,434       16,595
lht kcrualih     sal                                                                  4*35         11          150           76           b           90          9            97
tWTIMTI  OF OEMiTION   OSEC REVEIIE
KEIaTIPO CHiE                                                                       30,76       2,I*469      13;77       14.257       15,2?6       16,35       17,474       10.55
=3-,:.l:    :na. tD0      . acgDtaa    naaCSCS   nahc.c 0       anU    Sala:a   anDA8tt:3 t a0  D



AmnN S.O1
0a4 15
FVloital 1VW  E0etd Dir. It                                                                   1939        1990         1991        19%:        1993        1994        IS
- frojechtons--------------
SCIEDILE OF AlTIU REVENK
5sit Rnme                                                                        ',217       3,772       3,998       4,309       4,657       5,021       5,32         5,771
Rate Iucrea/CeA                                                                     "i 9S2               1,094        1,179       1,269       1,33        1463        1,56
leouatian Charge0.6                                                                         11,6        13.276      14.251      1MM7        16.:55       17 434      18,59
Rate luruaul                      0.0i'       0.10                                 990       1064        1,452       2,462        3 657       4,560         068         ell51
t E R ^                           0.09        0.14        0.06                     24U        1.00       1,102        1,192       1,29A)      1.391       1,45        1,60
iscollams lntou                                                                     53          36          36          36            6          36          3 6
kcr"lRmursal - Senratioe  Cbarp                                                    435         1U          150           i6         86           s            0          97
-- --     ...  _... .  - .... .. -  -- --  -- -- --  -- -- --  ----..--_-.... .
Total Uperat1s  Rayrun                                                          16,459      18,545      21,098      23,509      26,270       29,119      31,77       34,476
20542       23020       29112       2U35        31407       34142
SCIEOULE I   LI TS RECEIVABLE                                                   1.55S       1.1.U?      1.7070       1.763       1.8U20      1.O4        1.225       I.9
Supniair  Ilace                                                                  2,314       2,251       2,425       2,431        2.839       3,069       3,306       I,53
kcraal of Somation Chrp                                                         10,767      11.469       13,276     14,257       15;2J6      163.M       17.434      19,59
kctrual of dAto Intreae                                                              0           0           0           0           0            0           0           0
Ruculavble Irma Cuvunt Wals                                                      5,692       7,075       7,822       9,252       50.994      12.764      14,345      15.551
Total k6cats Rictivable                                                         18.772      20 79       23,523      26.147      29,109       32 1I       35,0       318,04
ruiad of  muatns    arp                                                         10.369       11.411      1 ,125      14,175      15,195      16.205      17,344      1e,49
k'tizatioe of Rte lrtnass                                                            0           0           0           0            0           0           0           0
allcti0M Of tachIVAb11                                                               0           0
0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0
6.152       6.96O       7,760       9.133      50,849      12,616      14,213      153.n1
Total Cu1uttion                                                                 le,521      lB,SI       20,--5      2S 33-       26,00       28.U2       31,557      30,251
twill dalac                                                                      2,251       2.425       2,638        2,839       3.06S       3,30        3,523       3.753
li .U Or  CCNs PATAILE
kcmes Payable   omung                                                            1.051       1 03S        I,!          ,1'        1,276       1.'4        1.477       1,579
1haud Pow  fr be Nott                                                           12.614       1;, 26!     5537        56.341      17,515      18,751      I9s   O     21.3S2
bterlas VA  Splin I Oti                                                            720         72.3        720          72n         720         720         720         720
0           0           0           0           0                       0           a
~~~~~~.__.... ....   ---  -. --... .........   ... .... ...   -------..   .... .. ....   
TT                                                                     14,390      15.014      11,e00      18,251       19.511     20,M35       22,177      23.011
Purom     Psr  paid dring the vemr                                              12.603      12,156      14,032       14 s9t      16,056      17.516      58.315      19.536
atVwt PrhadPew r                                                                     0       1,052        1.105       1,216       1,S32       1,40        1,563       1,65
Intretuid Ordo Ptyabne to  EC                                                        0           0           0           0            0           0           0           0
Last am" fateirals ad Supplies II otrs                                             720         720         720         720    n      20         720         720         720
0           0           0
td of tp tLons                                                                      34          34           34          0            0           0           0           0
L5,                                                                               136              1       16,975      18.S37      19,36       20,598      21,921
kcdruts Payable, End                                                             I,033       l,0         1.1--       t,27        1,374       1,47        1.579       1,690
SJat2211 1 1355   S2351             hhSSUd       B551*1     28151:          552tt    * SSC



AMII5 3.01
rimcl&l Ym Ewidcd kc. 'I                                                             1i99         I"9         I0          IS91         1992        :Im          299          215
~-~----     -   --- --------------u--- Pro etions ---- ------            ---------------- _-
a,msfnn.::.f:..sdhs.fhl.sn.:a::                                               sa:sna*snhmnf:::nnnnzfltt:ss nsgnnnrnufllRfSinsflhfltflflfluflsuminnsni
SOEDIE      UTILITY PLANT
Dhilitp Plaot, beginin                                                              t7,094      20,421       24,         '9,072       3,560        1.201       43175        41.603
tippaiial                                                                            2,643       2.819        2, 10       2,326        2,66         3,056       3,454       S3I,O
CuuIVitr Ux 6usd                                                                       539         970        1,684       1,589        1,447        1,426       1,472        1,741
hru is trwrn                                                                           ;31           I          676         641          596          579         598          702
Capita1 EIpsitwus Lw    fro W U            UK                                            0           0            0 O                     0            0           0            0
tCital  apeitwrn  Leo  frow  K   N 1                                                     0           0            0           0            0            0           0            0
0           0            0           0            0            0           0            0
0           0            0           0            0            0           0            0
0           0            0           0            0           0            0            0
0           0            0           0            0            0           0            0
tlifersets                                                                             (411        (511         (57)         (67)        (77)         (362        (962        11061
566t   Aijus t,                               __ .44_                                                0
kility Plant td                                                                     20,421      24,559       29,072      33,560       58,202      43,175       46,603       34,629
t tiuut  bm          Depreciation - Prvmt Value                                       670         7%           930       2,O92        1.20         1,406       1,586        1.707
3t   wKacitiwn                                                                         670         7t           930        I,062       1.240        1.406       2,53         2 I
OFEN    P  KINIATED WEIAT(P
Zcnldw  hsrucltuu.  fpanin                                                          7I5CO        9985        12,622       14.631      16,215       19,323      22,219       25,454
36sthI                                                                       2,95         I,99         1,136       1,170        I1,345      1,54         1,775        2,036                                                   %
Irt ileted kothlv AwKistion                                     ~~~~670      796          930        1,062       1,240        1,404        1,596       2 797 
CItrtiro  s                                                                            2412:       (51)         (57'         (67)        t77          (61         (96         1106I
Otbw er  dsteents                                                                     (t19.1         0
_----   ... ..        
kci lated      preci1ati. EN                                                        9S,         12,622      41,631 1-,9-      5       IS,323       22,1  s     25,454       29,11-
swse:ses  =aS: :"stls statussst: *          Imn. Ialln:2=3 cm=mmmnw   8xz=smx
lEWlt er eCWITL E1h)TURES
Cb Gbtlan                                                                              747           0            0            0         905          970       1.O          1,436
J Oc                                                                                    22          35          106           91          79           74          77          103
Total Caittal Ezp  ditturs                                                             769          35          106          91          t#4        1,044       1,34'        1, i
*=ss=mIVn  S9mcZcss   Gmw.9=nSa 2ws     21323w   e  10=2022    131w2s232:              19-u2   222*  2.-SO
t122          Ot           Ox          et          f52          692         9Ol          lot
619         747
IlowAR (XEMA) tiN 1312 1 WPIT
_... .._.__...... . ... . .......... ...
Uthwr   sats - 11almoe                                                               3,019       3.536        3.735       3,79l3       4,061        41,345      4.65         4,991
lKrnute                                                                              0          519t         I"           4E          271         234          269          294
biralm                                                                               94           0            0           0            0            0           0            0
Othr Liabilitien  - Balance                                                          2,620       3.0St        3,025        3,156       3,50S        3.771       4,000        4.245
IKcroW                                                                             433          475            0         132          352         263          229          245
i7  uaw                                                                               0           0           70           0            0            0                        0
.t4 (cram.                                                                            0         (41)        (269) t4                   74          (21         (401         (39)
364 hireas                                                                          533           0            0            0           0            0            0           0
Iurtih tim  of dbtt b n                                                             1(1i        (35          (19)         !I9)        (19)         (193         (171        114)
Provisio  for lepreciat l                                                             0         24S          256         251          I94          126          99           60
_ _ _ _ _ ~~----          .      ... ....._.  - ----    ........    -- --- _     -----
S9rceI(o,licati)                                                                       5319         171          32)         316         249           05           32          i5
3322122    2238*    I322S fl2    1812* 32N  333231 3se             283    332122 3e ss  sss *2223



- 97 -                        ANNEX 5.01
Page 14 of 15
PHILIPPINES
MANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
MERALCO - Assumptions to Financial Projections
A. Income Statement
1. Operating Revenue - based on derivations of energy sales, basic reve-
nues, foreign exchange adjustments, purchased power and generation
revenue (presented in pages 10 and 11, and summarized on page 12 of
this annex).
2.  System Losses - assumed to declitne gradually from current levels to
16.52 by 1995 (page 11 of this annex).
3. Purchased Power - derived on page 11 of this annex.
4. Operation and Maintenance - projected to increase by amounts approxi-
mating 182 per year.
5. Depreciation - 3.33Z of revalued fixed assets in service at the begin-
ning of the year (page 13 of this annex).
6. Taxes other than Income Tax - primarily the franchise tax, assessed at
22 of gross revenues a-8 real estate taxes. The aggregate of these is
projected at about 2.75Z of operating revenue.
7. Income Tax - assumed at 351 of net income.
8. Interest on Long-Term Debt - assumed at 11 for borrowings from IBRD,
112 on borrowings from KfW, and at 122 on other foreign debt (page 9
of this annex).
9. Interest on Short-Term Debt - assumed at 152 (page 9 of this annex).
B. Cash Flow Statement
1. Changes in Working Capital - projected net of changes in cash (page 13
of this annex).
2. Preferred Equity Issues (Net) - reflects amounts presented on page 9
of this annex less retirements estimated on the basis of financial
requirements.



ANNEX 5.01
- 98 -                         Page 15 of 15
3. Common Equity Issues - presented on page 9 of this annex.
4. Long-Term Borrowing - is based on the expenditure schedule of expendi-
tures to implement MERALCO's Investment Program.
5. Notes Payable and Other Harketable Debt - the plug figure of these
projections. Because of other sources of funds that have been projec-
ted, this differentJal can be met from revolving credits or over-
drafts.
6. Restructured NPC Payables - amounts to be repaid to NPC between 1989
and 1991.
7. Construction Expenditures - assumed on the basis of 1052 of deprecia-
tion plus the annual proceeds of the World Bank and FkW financings.
8. Dividends on Common Stock - based on former level of payments of P 10
per share, increasing by 3Z per year up to limits allowed by the
MERALCO indenture or by the proposed project's debt service covenant.
9. Dividend on Preferred Stock - payable at coupon rates, ranging between
10-182, carried on the particular preferred stock issue.
C.  Balance Sheet
1.  Utility Plant in Service - includes Fixed Assets in operat:.on and Work
in Progress. Fixed Assets in service are assumed to be retalued on
July 1, 1988 and July 1, 1991 (page 13 of this annex).
2. Accounts Receivable - are projected on page 12 of this annex.
3. Inventories - are assumed at 32 of net utility plant in service.
4. Other Deferred Debits - adjustments for foreign exchange fluctuations
applicable to MERALCO outstanding long-term debt.
5. Appraisal Surplus - same as revaluation reserve.
6. Accounts Payable - are projected on page 12 of this annex.



- 99 -                ~~~~ANNEX 5.02
Page I of 9
PHILIPPINES
MANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Manila Electric Company
Action Program to Reduce System Losses, Receivables and Payables
Introduction
1.       Since August 1987, in connection with the appraisal of the Bacon
Manito Geothermal Power Project (Loans 2969-PH). MERALCO has begun vigorous
implementation of a coordinated action program to reduce system losses,
accounts receivable and accounts payable. Section I hereunder outlines the
program to reduce system losses. Action on all steps have already begun.
Significant improvement, however, will only be recorded when implementation of
the program is well advanced. Section II describes the accounts receivable
situation. In effect, any problem related to private-sector receivables
results from accounting practices which, while generally recognized as
appropriate throughout the Philippines, give a somewhat misleading picture of
what is actually collectible. With the Government's help, the problems
associated with receivables fron agencies of the National Government has been
eliminated. Receivables from agencies of Local Government remains a problem;
HERALCO is taking some steps to improve these but will need help from the
Natior.nl Government to realize significant improvement. The accounts payable
problem has been limited to arrears owing to NPC. Under the restructuring
arrangement wit1i NPC, this problem has been eliminated; the guarantees given
by HERALCO to NPC effectively preclude a recurrence of the problem.
I. SYSTEM LOSSES
A. Coord.nating Task Force
2.       On August 17, 1987, a Task Force on System Loss Reduction was created
with the following memberships
Atty. Pastor S. del Rosario   -  Chairman
Mr. Jesus P. PFancisco         - Hember
Mr. Magsikap B. Mole           - Member
Hr. Virgilio C. Flordeliza    - Member
Mr. Delfin S. Brigino          - Member
Hr. Orlando S. Valenzuela      - Member
Mr. Rodolfo N. Quetua          - Member
Management Services Division  -  Secretariat
This group is responsible for monitoring, analyzing and prescribing solutions
to system loss problems on a corporate-wide basis. The task force is still
operational; it meets regularly to ensure that top management's high priority
on loss reduction is shared throughout the Company, and to direct and monitor
the Company's loss reduction efforts.



- 100 -                        ANNEX 5.02
Page 2 of 9
B. Constraints to the Implementation of the System Loss
Reduction Program
3.       The Company's capacity to implement its program to reduce system
losses is limited by the amount of finance available to undertake the develop-
ment of physical facilities needed to reduce technical losses. In fact, one
of the reasons for the rise in losses in the 1980s is the overextended and
critically loaded power transformers and lines due to the Company's inability
to construct substations and lines in the 19709. Physical facilities were
built only to the extent permitted by available funds, and then only to meet
the load requirement. And even this would not have been met adequately had
the load not dropped drastically in 1983 as a result of the economic crisis.
4.       Solutions to the nontechnical losses require millions of Pesos of
capital expenditures. Initial appropriation is estimated at P 8 million ir
1987 and an annual budget of P 3 million neaded to sustain the program. To
date, more than 700 Company personnel are directly involved in the system '.-se
reduction program. However, the equipment needed to implement the program
fully is still to be acquired.
S.       The other constraints to the system loss reduction program are nonfi-
nancial in nature.  These ares
(a) Legal procedures have hampered the prosecution of cases involving
theft of e-ergy. Moreover, there are inherent weaknesses in the
existing !...s covering energy pilferage. Like other classes of
theft, pilferage of energy is considered only as a misdemeanor; as
such, the corresponding penalty is relatively light and does not
serve as deterrent. Also, trial courts tend to be lenient with
defendants in energy pilferage cases, a reflection perhaps of the
culture which views the consumers as the "underdogs in Lourt cases in
contrast to MERALCO's image as a bullying giant.
(b) The inability of the Company in prosecuting successfully cases of
energy pilferage has acted to encourage pilferage, as this implies
low risk to the pilferers. The general attitude of avoiding
involvement in suits is often encountered by Company lawyers. The
Company has experienced severe difficulty in getting witnesses in
cases involving third parties.
(c) Organized theft often involving Company employees is difficult to
detect because data which would reveal such theft has been altered.
Some such cases have been detected and the Company is vigorously
pursuing other leads.
(d) Pockets of slum areas in the Company's franchise area cannot be
served by the Company, mainly because of legal requirements. These
communities often are found to have makeshift connections directly to
MERALCO lines, of course without meters.



ANNEX 5.02
- 101                          Page 3 of 5
C. Improve Hethodology for Assessing System Losses
6.       At present, technical losses are determined by calculation.  Nontech-
nical losses are derived by subtracting the technical loss (as calculated)
from total system losses.
7.       Currently, a project is on-stream to improve the calculation of tech-
nical losses thtough the following:
(a) Minimize resorting to estimating energy by installing kWh meters and
standardization of location of meters at substations. For instance,
subtransmission line losses can be directly obtained from meters at
primaries of substation power transformers. Those losses would then
represent the difference between the in-ut to the 115 kV system (from
NPC) and the kWh of substation meters.
(b) Installation of meters on all primary lines to obtain power trans-
former losses and primary line losses.
(c) Installation of meters on all substation service transformers.
(d) Research on current methodology for calcuilating system losses.
(e) Improve the Transformer Load Monitoring system for distribution
transformers.
(f) Use ot ,CADA system to obtain simultaneous reading of delivery and
substation meters.
D. Technical Losses
8.       Causes for the rise in technical losses during the 1980ss
(a) overextended distribution lines;
(b) underrated primary and secondary distribution lines;
(c) overloaded/critically loaded transformers;
(d) extensive use of repaired transformers;
(e) use of multiple distribution transformation voltages;
(f) acquisition of new franchise areas;
(g) reduced generation of Metro Manila plants; and
(h) insufficient number of NPC delivery points.



- 102 -                       ANNEX 5.02
Page 4 of 9
9.       Actions taken:
(a) conversion to higher primary distribution voltage;
(b) reconductoring of lines to larger sizes;
(c) relieve overloaded/critically loaded transformers and lines;
(d) phase out multiple distribution transformation voltages; and
(e) installation of new substations and lines.
10.      Planned actions:
(a) use of computer-aided planning;
(b) use of more efficient transformers;
(c) creation of new strategic delivery points; and
(d) increase generation of Metro Manila plants.
11.      To reduce technical losses (specific projects are shown in the report
submitted by MERALCO entitled "MERALCO Project Formulation for World Bank"):
(a) On subtranmission lines:
(i)  Installation of additional delivery points, where load concen-
trations are identified.
(ii) Construction of additional lines to meet single-line contingency
(indirectly).
(iii) Use of larger conductors (as determined by economic studies).
(b) On distribution losses:
(i) Relieve overloadedlcritically loaded power transformers
- Construction of additional substations at strategic locations
- Redistribution of loads between adjacent substations.
(ii) Shorten overextended lines as a result of Item A.
(iii)  Serve industrialilarge commercial loads at higher distribution
voltage.
(iv) Maintain high power factor at all distribution voltage levels
(95Z at primaries)



- 103 -                       ANNEX 5.02
Page 5 of 9
(c) by continuing technical/economic studies to:
(i) Optimize power and distribution transformer and conductor combi-
nation
(ii)  Enhance accuracy of Transformer Load Monitoring System (TLMS)
(iii)  Program replacement of secondary wires in new acquired areas
(iv)  Computerize mapping system which will enhance accuracy of TLMS
area-loading estimate.
E. Nontechnical Losses
12.      Ways of pilfering electricity:
(a)  Direct connection
(b)  Use of jumper
(c)  Meter substitution
(d)  Destroying the me3ter
(e)  Removable tampering device
(f)  Substitution of recording demand chart
(g)  Use of reversing transformer.
13.      Immediate measures to be taken by MERALCOs
(a)  Declaration of amnesty
(b)  Investigation of erring employees
(c!  Increase manpower complement directly involved in detection, appre-
hension and settlement of cases
(d)  Intensified surveillance of service installation
(e)  Securing service installations in metal cabinets
(f)  Seek assignment of special prosecutors
(g)  Research on practices of neighboring Asian utilities.
14.      Needed Government assistance:
(a)  Issue stern warning to the business community that theft of electri-
city is economic sabotage and will not be tolerated.



ANNEX 5.02
-104 -                        Page 6 of 9
(b) Send strong request to the judiciary to enforce the full force of the
law.
(c) Send strong signals to the legislature to review existing statutes
concerning electric pilferage.
(d) If necessary, give mandate to civil authorities and law enforcement
agencies to assist the utilities.
15.      Reduce nontechnical losses over the next five years:
(a' Continued use of Hexguard, securing ring and similar devices to
include all GP customers eventually (adopted in 1982).
(b) Installation of enclosing metal boxes, with key-less padlocks and
seal on all CT installatiors.
(c) Continued removal of potential link of single-phase meters (adopted
in 1985).
(d) Continued research on seals to obtain a better tamper-free design
such as Tyden ball-type seal (started in 1986).
(e) Replacement of active/reactive metering cabinet (ARMC) with new
design (adopted in 1986).
(f) Complete installation of kWh meters on all primary feeders for moni-
toring of losses.
(g) Continue with the "Found Connected' campaign by meter readers.
(h) Conduct periodic audit of meters.
(i) Intensification of saturation drive on inspection of metering instal-
lation.
(i) Increased frequency of inspection on all General Power customers to
at least once every quarter and all other customers once every 2.5
years.
(k) Xeeping alert against organized pilferage (resorting to covert opera-
tion when necessary) and monitoring of recidivist pilferers.
(1) Conducting of researches on methods of pilferage and develop counter
measures.
(m) Increase manpower and mobility of Inspection Division as necessary.
(n) Research on type of meters that will be difficult to tamper with,
such as the GE digital meter for possible conversion of meters of
customers prone to pilfering.



- 105 -                          ANNEX 5.02
Page 7 of 9
(o) Association with utilities of neighboring countries, such as those in
Pakistan and Indonesia on counter measures being instituted or
planned against pilfering of energy.
(p) Lobbying in Congress to revise statute of theft of electric energy.
(q)  Lobbying in Congress for enactment of the proposed law to rationalize
electric rates and to place all utilities under a common regulatory
body.
(r)  Maintenance of the Task Force Commitlee on System Loss.
(s) M'.nimization of contribution of administrative loss (a subcomponent
of nontechnical loss due to lapses in administrative functions, such
as absence of bills of consumers, computer errors, error in calculat-
ing Company use, etc.).
F. Annual Target for System Losses
16.      Based on the action plans intended to reduce system losses in the
next five years, the following are the estimates of the losses in percent
annually:
1988       1989        1990        1991       1992
Technical loss                    11       10.5          10         9.5           9
Nontechnical loss                  9        8.5           8         7.5           7
Total System Loss           20        19.0          18       17.0          16
II. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
17.      Generally, MERALCO has accounts receivable outstanding from three
separate consumer segments: (i) private-sector individuals and establish-
ments; (ii) National Government agencies; and (iii) Local Government agencies.
The measures being undertaken to realize collections from each of these seg-
ments is described here below:
(a) Receivables from the Private Sector. As of September 30, 1987, the
Company had outstanding receivables from the private sector amounting
to about P 1.68 billion; of these, about P 1.26 billion, or about
752, are current. About P 0.15 billion, or about 9Z, represents
accounts that are under discussion and that will probably be resolved
in the next few months. Another P 0.27 billion, or about 162, are
more than 120 days past due. The Company considers that most of the



ANNEX 5.02
- 106 -                        Page 8 of 9
arrears are uncollectible, even though these have not yet been writ-
ten off the books of accounts. The Company's procedures for account-
ing for these arrears has followed accounting practices that are
generally accepted in the Philippines. During 1988, the Company will
take the following measures with regard to these arrears.
(i) The arrears will be examined case by case to determine the exact
status of the consumer. Any still receiving electricity will be
disconnected unless payment in full is received. The Company
will use all reasonable means to pucrsue consumers that have been
disconnected but who can be located. The Company will prepare a
summary of consumers who have been disconnected and known to be
bankrupt, or who cannot be located.
(ii) The Company will examine the legal, as well as the accounting,
implications of writing off all of these arrears as an extraor-
dinary loss.
(iii) If not explicitly prescribed, the Company will take the afore-
mentioned extraordinary write-off in 1988.
(b)  Receivables from National Government Agencies.  As of September 30,
1987, the Com,any had outstanding receivables from Government-sector
consumers amounting to about P 0.53 billion; of these, only about
P 0.11 billion, or aF)ut 21X, were current and another P 0.07
billion, or about 13X, was less than 30 days late. Of the arrears,
about 30? were incurred for the account of agencies of the National
Government and the remainder for agencies of Local Governments.
Since early 1987, the Company has been able to make use of proce-
dures, established under the Utilities Accounts Committee, to have
the national agencies in question certify their receivables; once
certified, these receivables are remitted to NPC which, in turn,
arranges for their settlement through the Treasury and corresponding
adjustments to HERALCO's account with NPC. The Company has been
availing itself of this mechanism with good results and hopes to
reduce arrears from this class of customers to less than 102 by the
end of 1989.
(c)  Receivables from Agencies of Local Government.  Although the same
methodology is available for MERALCO to settle some bills from agen-
cies of Local Governments, those agencies are not required to certify
their bills in the same way as agencies of the National Government.
As a result, improvement in these accounts has been realized only
very slowly. The Company has only limited leverage with these cus-
tomers.  In the future, it will continue trying to use the Utility
Accounts Committee's procedures with these customers while also
pressing the National Government for help in persuading Local Govern-
ments to make use of this mechanism. The Company hopes it can reduce
agencies of Local Government arrears from present levels by about 52
per year over the next ten years.



ANNEX 5.02
- 107 -                       Page 9 of 9
III. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE
18.      Although MERALCO has had sizable accounts payable in recent years, it
has kept current with all creditors except its lead supplier, NPC. On Octo-
ber 22, 1987, the Company entered into an agreement with NPC that had the
effect of restructuring its arrears, amounting to P 1,715 billion, retroactive
to August 31, 9187. Under this agreement, MERALCO made three front-end
payments, amounting to P 915 million in the aggregate. according to the
following schedule:
July 31              P 400 million
September 30        P 100 million
October 31           P 415 million
19.      MERALCO will issue first mortgage bonds to NPC in payment of the
remaining P 800 million in arrears.  Those bonds will carry a 172 interest
rate and will be repayable in six equal semiannual installments beginning
March 31, 1991. Upon the occurrence of any of the following conditions, and
after a written notification thereof, MERALCO shall be in default:
(a) failure to make the front-end payments;
(b) failure to pay any principal or interest on the due date;
(c)  failure to deliver the bonds az of December 31, 1987; and
(d) failure to pay/settle all bills ;rom NPC within ten working days of
the due date.
In that eventuality, NPC could begin proceedings to liquidate MERALCO's assets
to force payment of the remaining balance of the bonds. With this agreement,
MERALCO is current with all creditors except where a question regarding a bill
may be under discussion.



ANNEX 6.01
-108 -                         Page 1 of 3
PHILIPPINES
MANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
Assumptions
1.   Demand Growth.  Based on the MERALCO Economic and Planning Department's
medium-term forecast 1988-97. Average growth rate of electricity con-
sumption for 1988-92 is 102 p.a., and 8Z for the period 1992-97. Commer-
cial and industrial consumer categories show fastest growth.
2.   System Losses.  From a 1987 high of about 20?, MERALCO's losses in 1988
are estimated to have been reduced to about 172 in 1988. Although the
target for 1993 is 8-92, it is realistic to assume that current efforts
at loss reduction will result in a gradual decrease to about 14X by 1993.
3.   Investment Costs.  Where available, investment expenditures are valued in
CIF terms. Local materials and services, where no border prices are
available, are convetted to border terms by using the standard conversion
factor (SCF). The skilled portion of the labor component is valued at
full market price, the unskillec, portion at 502 of market price. All
labor costs are adjusted by the SCF.
4.   O&M Cost.  Two percent of cumulative assets in the previous year,
reflecting the incremental expenditure on new transmission and distribu-
tion equipment.
5.   Shadow Prices.  SCF = 0.86.  Shadow wage rate for urban unskilled labor
about 50? of market price.
6.   Exchange Rate.  $1 = P 21.
7.   Cost of High-Voltage Power.  At the margin, MERALCO obtains power supply
from NPC at high voltage, to be distributed in its system. The NPC price
to MERALCO at the end of 1988 was P 0.98/kWh, having steadily declined
from more than P 1.00. A recent Energy Sector Study (7269-PH) calculated
long-run marginal costs of power supply in the Luzon Grid that would
result in an LRMC-based cost of MERALCO supply of about P 1.00/kWh. NPC
is in the process of completing LRMC calculations for all their grids,
and preliminary results indicate a cost of P 0.97/kWh for MERALCO. This
analysis uses the latter figure as the cost of power entering the MERALCO
Grid.
8.   Retail Tariffs.  A major restructuring of tariff levels in different
consumer categories will be completed by 1990. Average projected reve-
nues per kWh in 1989 reflect the new structure, and are used to value the
benefits of power supply to consumers. This represents a proxy for the



- 109                  ANN~~~MIIEX 6.01
-10O9 -                        Page 2 of 3
lower bound of consumers' valuation of power supply, as consuaers' sur-
plus is not taken into account. The SCF is applied to all bfnefits.
9.   Program Approach.  As the proposed project constitutes an integral part
of MERALCO's investment program, a rate of return calculation for the
project alone is not suitable. MERALCO's five-year investment program
consists of many interrelated components, and therefore is evaluated as a
whole. Transmission and distribution investments are assumed to yield
benefits of loss reduction and incremental sales with a one-year time
lag.
10.  Sensitivity.  The program rate of return is highly sensitive to changes
in the LRMC of power, and in the benefits from incremental sales. Rates
of return are therefore presented for scenarios with an increase in LRMC,
and a decrease in incremental sales. NPC's tariff is already generating
revenues at levels that are consistent with LRMC pricing. Although NPC's
long-run marginal cost-based tariff structures is in the process of being
refined, it is unlikely that the level will rise by more than a few
percentage points for MERALCO. In the most extreme instance, NPC might
increase its rates by 10? in real terms. Benefit fluctuations would
arise mainly from a lower than projected demand growth. In the past
(1984-86), energy demand was severely affected by the absolute decline in
GDP. Projections indicate a healthy GDP growth in the medium term,
consistent with MERALCO's forecasting assumptions. The maximum likely
reduction in demand growth should not depress benefits by more than 102.
Results
IRR               NPV (Million Pesos)
(i2          10?            13?           15?
Base case                     32         8,603          6,045         4,762
LRMC plus 102                 22         4,277          2,591         1,755
Sales minus 10?               18         2,808          1,420            737
LRMC plus 10? and
sales minus 102              5        -1,518         -2,033        -2,270



ANNEX 6.01
- 110 -                         Page 3 of 3
MERALCO'S INVESTMENT PROGRAM, 1989-93: COSTS AND BENEFITS
(Million Pesos, 1989 constant prices)
1989   1990   1991   1992   1993  1994-2009
Investment
Foreign exchange                    457    809    689    615    697           -
Local materials/services            355    628    535    477    541           -
Labor                                79    141    120    107    122           -
Total Investment                 891  1,578  1,344  1,199  1,360           -
Incremental operating cost (22)          -     18      49     76    100       127
Purchase from NPC (GWh)                  -  1,243  2,580  3,864  5,235    6,707
Marginal cost (P  million)               -  1,206  2,502  3,748  5,078    6,506
Total Cost                       891  2,802  3,895  5,023  6,538    6,633
Incremental Sales (GWh)
Residential                           -    256    543    844  1,164    1,495
Commercial                            -    371    775  1,162  1,585    2,032
Industrial                            -    401    840  1,265  1,735    2,218
Other                                 -       4      9      13     18        23
Total                              -  1,032  2,167  3,284  4,502    5,768
Incremental Sales (P million)
Residential                           -    337    716  1,114  1,536    1,973
Commercial                            -    638  1,333  1,999  2,726    3,495
Industrial                            -    589  1,234  1,860  2,550    3,260
Other                                 -       2       5      8      11       14
Total                              -  1,566  3,288  4,981  6,823    8,742
I



- 111 -
ANNEX 6.02
PHILIPPINES
MANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.l   The Philippines:  Selected Issues in Public&Resource Management; July
1987; World Bank.
A.2   Staff Appraisal Report:  Bacon-Manito Geothermal Power Project; May
1988.
A.3   The Philippines:  Issues and Options in the Energy Sector; September
1988.
A.4   The Philippines:  Issues and Options in the Financial Sector; August
1988.
A.5   Environmental Impact Assessment Handbook; Ministry of Human Settlements,
National Environmental Protection Council.
B.1   MERALCO - Annual Reports; 1984-87.
B.2   MERALCO Distribution System - Technical Considerations.
B.3   MERALCO - Executive Summary of Electric System Rehabilitation Projects;
1987-91.
B.4   MERALCO Corporate Charter; December 31, 1986.
B.5   MERALCO Bylaws; December 31, 1986.
B.6   MERALCO Training and Development Manual.
B.7   Trust Indenture of MERALCO.
B.8   MERALCO - Feasibility Study for Projects Complementary to NAPOCOR
Planned General Additions.
B.9   Project Support Data for MERALCO Projecs.
B.10  Computerized Financial Models:
- MERFINC - Integrated Model Assuming Restructured Loans are Refinanced
- MERFIND - Integrated Model Assuming Restructured Loans are Not
Refinanced
B.ll MERALCO projections and Investment Plan.



I-Lf  Izf                     _                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 2139~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD23
120-                                             1i2                                               1
LUZON SINGLE LINE SYSTEM                                                                                    MERALCO 115 kV SYSTEM
PHILIPPINES
MANILA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
SUBTRANSMISSION LINES AND SUBSTATIONS
F.oS Ps re                                                                                                           EXISTING POWER PLANTS.
I                                                                                                       U X 0   j   /   I  *(p.)   Pmpd Hydro
009005040                                                                  M                                                                                                               KTpsLso  I !&C  jW  IN)    NuolNor
/                                                                                                               El,euswy  Molmtol \\@  f z  -X  (T)    ThcrIol
Soro~~~~~~~~~~~ e~~~~~~,        M40          I                                                                                                          KId~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ac  Cool Th-ooo
E.ToLMr  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    I! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUBSTATIONS:
,JA---2PX   llF |                       a                                                                  -       Er(sting 230 kV
n PrjCTo  230 kV
|M\OP7"0bLoMItI                                                Ic                POokTh         -=,ik tG) pW                                       1~                                                     -----   P RooEiNg 115 IV
0..~~~~~~~~~~~~  ,    ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                            0  ~~~~~~~ Projec It 15  kV
/       KFW-Finoo-od 115 kV
Roooo    flooclol                                                                                              MoI,Ooy-'} Oogog} /kj: c           00                                                                                  TRANS  SSION LINES
Te t e M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Il   4 |                                                                                                                                                                   IMoobon(ofI4oI  KA7C,e e   
M{NDORO                                                  o                      5                      10MIIE5                                                  Indl a       ^\,J_         W~~~~~~~~~I 
?                                                                                                            Rootinq 230 kV
Ion                                                         p ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Projo 230 kV
-  Iii                                                                                        Rootin~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---- E.1g 115kLV
TooOoLMoPonIo)                  POOP 00O ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oo  -~~~~ 500600                      I                                                                 P~~~~~~~~ojoc----- 115i 11Lk
*ooooonlOI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--- KFW-finoncd 115 kV
Cob~~.otoon  0       10           00i         10 KILOMETERS                                                                  TblflrlEoo  odob
SM. ~~~~~                    0        25 ~~~~  50        75        O"MLES                                                                       &Aood 
400,00                             ~~                                                                                                                                           440             MfloOOOOooO   ft000000dOoOOnoooMooOin~GM
0M0..    I'o                                      PH                       .O00 4400000040000040040000400Oc-0
PNPP                      PTOII--                                                                                                        :.OI 0040000000000000000000 o000n 0 00n
MoO                                                                                                    ~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 *L0*Bl-0 
10)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
Soroogo.                                     ro Coloco                                                                                                       OUNEI6    ?         >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BUN1
I             3             10              ISRKILOMETERS                                                                                       E    S'   I  A
A4JNDORO                                                                             I                                             lMMIId-n,
FEBRUARY 19



