Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 3084 PH
                (Manila Power Distribution Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                      MANILA ELECTRIC COMPANY
                       Dated August 2, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3084 PH
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August  2,  1989, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  (the Bank) and MANILA ELECTRIC
COMPANY (MERALCO).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between Development Bank of the Philippines (the Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has  agreed  to  make  available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty five million five
hundred  thousand  dollars   ($65,500,000),   on   the  terms  and
conditions set forth in the  Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that MERALCO agree to  undertake  such obligations toward the Bank
as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
Page  2
between  the  Borrower  and  MERALCO,  the  proceeds  of  the loan
provided for under the  Loan  Agreement  will be made available to
MERALCO on the terms and  conditions  set forth in said Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS MERALCO, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the  Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01.  (a)  MERALCO  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative,   financial,   engineering   and   public  utility
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, MERALCO shall carry out the Project in accordance
with sound environmental protection measures.
     Section 2.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and works required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds  of  the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. MERALCO  shall  carry  out  the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land  acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect  of the Project
Agreement.
     Section 2.04. MERALCO shall  duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as  the Bank shall
otherwise agree, MERALCO shall  not  take  or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) MERALCO shall,  at the request of the Bank,
exchange views  with  the  Bank  with  regard  to  progress of the
Project, the performance of  its  obligations under this Agreement
and  under  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement,  and  other  matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  MERALCO shall promptly inform  the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment  of  the  purposes of Loan, or the
performance by MERALCO of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06.   MERALCO  shall  by  June  15, 1989, appoint a
Project Manager with  qualifications  and experience acceptable to
the Bank.
                            ARTICLE III
Page  3
               Management and Operations of MERALCO
     Section 3.01.  MERALCO  shall  carry  on  its  operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial and public  utility  practices  under the supervision of
qualified and experienced  management  assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. MERALCO shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and  other property, and from time
to time,  promptly  as  needed,  make  all  necessary  repairs and
renewals  thereof,  all  in  accordance  with  sound  engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
     Section  3.03.  MERALCO  shall  take  out  and  maintain with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance  against  such  risks  and  in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 3.04. (a)  MERALCO  shall  at  all times maintain its
corporate existence and right to carry on its operations, and take
all steps necessary  to  acquire,  maintain  and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in
the conduct of its business and for the execution of the Project.
     (b)  Except in the  normal  course  of  its business, MERALCO
shall not, without the  prior  approval  of the Bank, sell, lease,
transfer or otherwise dispose of  any  of its properties or assets
which shall or may adversely  affect, in a substantial manner, the
efficient operation of its business and undertaking.
     Section 3.05.  During  Project implementation period, MERALCO
shall implement the Action  Plan  in  order  to: (a) reduce system
losses; (b) maintain  receivable  at  existing or improved levels;
and (c) remain  current  in  meeting MERALCO's obligations towards
suppliers and creditors.
     Section 3.06.  By December  31, 1989 and each year thereafter
during Project  implementation  period,  MERALCO  shall: (a) carry
out, in consultation with the  Bank  and the Borrower, a review of
its investment  program  for  the  succeeding  five  years and its
investment accomplishments for  the  preceding  two years; and (b)
adopt the recommendations arising  from  these reviews taking into
account the comments made by the Bank and the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) MERALCO shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  MERALCO shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year,  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
Page  4
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
MERALCO shall earn, for each of  its fiscal years after its fiscal
year ending on December  31,  1989,  an  annual return of not less
than 8% of the average current net value of MERALCO's fixed assets
in operation.
     (b)  Before November 15 in each  of its fiscal years, MERALCO
shall,  on  the  basis  of   forecasts  prepared  by  MERALCO  and
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  review  whether  it  would  meet the
requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a)  in respect of such year
and the next following fiscal  year  and shall furnish to the Bank
the results of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review shows that MERALCO would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for MERALCO's fiscal years
covered by such review, MERALCO  shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without  limitation,  making proposals to the
Guarantor for  adjustments  of  the  structure  or  levels  of its
tariff) in order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The annual return  shall  be calculated by dividing
               MERALCO's net operating income  for the fiscal year
               in question by one half  of  the sum of the current
               net value of MERALCO's fixed assets in operation at
               the beginning and at the end of that fiscal year.
         (ii)  The  term  "net   operating   income"  means  total
               operating revenues less total operating expenses.
        (iii)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources related to operations.
         (iv)  The  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses related  to  operations, including admini-
               stration,  adequate  maintenance,   net  taxes  and
               payments  in  lieu  of  taxes,  and  provision  for
               depreciation  in  a   manner  consistent  with  the
               generally  accepted  accounting  principles  in the
               Philippines.
          (v)  The average current gross  value of MERALCO's fixed
               assets in operation shall be calculated as one half
               of the sum of  the  gross  value of MERALCO's fixed
               assets in operation at the beginning and at the end
               of the fiscal year, as  valued from time to time in
               accordance with  sound  and consistently maintained
               methods of valuation satisfactory to the Bank.
         (vi)  The term  "current  net  value  of  MERALCO's fixed
               assets  in  operation"  means  the  gross  value of
               MERALCO's fixed assets in operation less the amount
               of accumulated depreciation, as valued from time to
               time  in  accordance  with  sound  and consistently
               maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to the
               Bank.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
for each of  its  fiscal  years  after  its  fiscal year ending on
December 31, 1989,  MERALCO  shall  not  incur  any  debt unless a
reasonable forecast of  MERALCO's  revenues and expenditures shows
that MERALCO's estimated net revenues  for each fiscal year during
the term of the debt  to  be  incurred  shall, in the fiscal years
1990-91,  be  at  least  1.0  times  and,  thereafter,  1.3  times
MERALCO's estimated debt service requirements  in such year on all
debt of MERALCO including the debt to be incurred.
Page  5
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "debt"  means  any indebtedness of MERALCO
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to operations  and  net  non-operating income;
                    and
               (B)  the sum of all  expenses related to operations
                    including  administration,   adequate  mainte-
                    nance,  net  taxes  and  payments  in  lieu of
                    taxes,    but    excluding    provision    for
                    depreciation, other non-cash operating charges
                    and interest and other charges on debt.
         (iv)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including net  taxes and payments in
                    lieu of taxes,  incurred  in the generation of
                    revenues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on,  debt  net  of  foreign exchange losses
               recovered  by  MERALCO  in  the  normal  course  of
               business.
         (vi)  The term  "reasonable  forecast"  means  a forecast
               prepared by MERALCO  not  earlier  than four months
               prior to the  incurrence  of  the debt in question,
               which  both  the   Bank   and   MERALCO  accept  as
               reasonable and as  to  which  the Bank has notified
               MERALCO  of  its  acceptability,  provided  that no
               event has  occurred  since  such notification which
               has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to
               have, a material  adverse  effect  on the financial
               condition or future operating results of MERALCO.
        (vii)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
Page  6
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.O2. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of MERALCO thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify MERALCO thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For MERALCO:
          Manila Electric Company
          Ortigas Avenue
          Pasig, Metro Manila
          Philippines
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               MANILALECT                      40116
               Manila
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of MERALCO,  may  be  taken or executed by the
President of  MERALCO  or  such  other  person  or  persons as the
President of MERALCO shall designate in writing, and MERALCO shall
furnish to the Bank sufficient  evidence  of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
Page  7
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Amnon Golan
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    MANILA ELECTRIC COMPANY
                    By /s/ Emmanuel Pelaez
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                            Procurement
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof,  goods manufactured in the Republic of
the  Philippines  may  be  granted   a  margin  of  preference  in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55
and  2.56  of  the  Guidelines  and  paragraphs  1  through  4  of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the  equivalent  of  $1,000,000,  may  be procured under
contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures
on the basis of evaluation  and  comparison of bids invited from a
list of at  least  three  qualified  suppliers  eligible under the
Guidelines and in  accordance  with  the  procedures  set forth in
Sections I and  II  of  the  Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8,
2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.   Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the  equivalent  of  $4,000,000,  may  be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract,  up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the  equivalent  of  $1,000,000,  may  be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at  least three suppliers from at least 3
different countries eligible  under  the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
Page  8
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of  Schedule  4  to the Loan
Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.02 (a) (ii) of the Loan Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
