Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3084 PH
                (Manila Power Distribution Project)
                              between
                DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated August 2, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3084 PH
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 2,  1989, between DEVELOPMENT BANK OF
THE  PHILIPPINES  (the   Borrower)   and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) The Republic  of  the Philippines (the Guarantor)
and the Borrower, having been  satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake  such  other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement;
     (C)  the Project  will  be  carried  out  by  Manila Electric
Company (MERALCO), with the Borrower's  assistance and, as part of
Page  2
such assistance, the Borrower  will  make available to MERALCO the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and  in  the  Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and MERALCO;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and MERALCO of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such  term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower  and MERALCO pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as  the  same may be amended from time
to time, and such  term  includes  all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
     (c)  "Charter"  means  the  charter  of  the  Borrower  dated
December 3, 1986, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (d)  "Statement  of  Policy"   means   the  policy  statement
specifying   the   Borrower's   objectives,   general  operational
principles,  investment   policies,   financial  prudence  limits,
financial policy  and  capital  structure,  and  the  statement of
lending and investment  policy  approved  by  the Directors of the
Borrower and the Guarantor;
     (e)  "The  Action  Plan"  means  the  series  of  operational
actions set forth in the Plan dated April 14, 1989; and
     (f)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.O1. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that  shall  have an aggregate value
equivalent to  the  amount  of  sixty  five  million  five hundred
thousand dollars ($65,500,000),  being  the  sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with  each withdrawal valued by the Bank
as of the date of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in  accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made)  in  respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for  the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be  financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
Page  3
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a  special account in a bank on terms
and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  Deposits  into, and
payments out of, the Special  Account  shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other  obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause MERALCO to perform in  accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement  all  the  obligations  of  MERALCO  therein set
forth, shall take or cause  to  be taken all action, including the
provision of funds and  other  resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable MERALCO to perform  such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any  action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
     (b)  The  Borrower  shall  make  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan
available to  MERALCO  under  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement to be
entered into between  the  Borrower  and  MERALCO, under terms and
conditions which shall have been  approved by the Bank which shall
include: (i) a term of 20 years (with a grace period of five years
on repayment  of  principal);  (ii)  an  interest  rate with fixed
spread  not  exceeding  3.65%  over  Bank's  rate;  and  (iii) the
assumption of the foreign exchange risk by MERALCO.
Page  4
     (c)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise   its  rights  under  the
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect the
interests of the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to accomplish the
purposes of the  Loan,  and,  except  as  the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and works required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds  of  the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and land  acquisition,  respectively) shall be carried
out by MERALCO pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year:  (A)   certified  copies  of  the
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records, accounts and financial statements
               as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from  the  Loan  Account  were  made  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one  year  after  the  Bank  has received the
               audit report for the fiscal  year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the
Page  5
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year  the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have  reasonably  requested, including a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements  of  expenditure  submitted  during such
               fiscal  year,  together  with  the  procedures  and
               internal controls  involved  in  their preparation,
               can  be  relied   upon   to   support  the  related
               withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  MERALCO  shall  have  failed   to  perform  any  of  its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that MERALCO will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  A Governing Regulation  or  any provisions thereof shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated,  repealed or waived so as
to affect  materially  and  adversely  the  ability  of MERALCO to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The  Guarantor,  the  Borrower  or  any  other authority
having  jurisdiction  shall   have   taken   any  action  for  the
dissolution or disestablishment of  MERALCO  or for the suspension
of its operations.
     (e)  MERALCO shall have been unable  to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or  proceeding  shall have been taken whereby
any of  its  properties  shall  or  may  be  distributed among its
creditors.
     (f)  The Charter or the  Statement  of Policy shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or  waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition
of the Borrower or to  perform  any  of its obligations under this
Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall  have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the events specified in  paragraphs  (c), (d) and (f) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
Page  6
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed on
behalf of the Borrower and MERALCO; and
     (b)  the Policy Statement of the Borrower has been issued.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Project  Agreement  has been duly authorized or
ratified by  MERALCO,  and  is  legally  binding  upon  MERALCO in
accordance with its terms; and
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified by the  Borrower and MERALCO and is legally
binding upon  the  Borrower  and  MERALCO  in  accordance with its
terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Chairman  of  the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower  for  the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Development Bank of the Philippines
          Makati, Metro Manila
          Philippines
          Cable address:                      Telex:
             PHILDEBANK                          22197
             Manila
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64l45 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
Page  7
                    DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
                    By /s/ Emmanuel Pelaez
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Amnon Golan
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Goods                   59,000,000        100% of foreign
                                               expenditures,
                                               100% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory
                                               cost) and 80%
                                               of local ex-
                                               penditures for
                                               other items pro-
                                               cured locally
(2)  Works                    6,500,000        65%
                             __________
          TOTAL              65,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Guarantor or
for goods or services supplied  from  the territory of any country
other than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to  the  date  of  this  Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate  amount  not exceeding the equivalent
of $1,000,000,  may  be  made  on  account  of  payments  made for
expenditures before that date but after March 1, 1989.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the  Project  are  to improve the technical
Page  8
and commercial operations of MERALCO.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the  Borrower,  MERALCO, and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
     Construction  and  upgrading  of  subtransmission  lines, and
additional substation capacity.
Part B:
     Construction and upgrading of distribution systems.
Part C:
     Improvement and expansion  of  the radio-multiplex facilities
for system monitoring and control.
Part D:
     Improve the capacity of MERALCO to carry out its construction
and maintenance activities.
                 *              *               *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*
February 1, 1995                                   1,200,000
August 1, 1995                                     1,250,000
February 1, 1996                                   1,295,000
August 1, 1996                                     1,345,000
February 1, 1997                                   1,395,000
August 1, 1997                                     1,450,000
February 1, 1998                                   1,505,000
August 1, 1998                                     1,565,000
February 1, 1999                                   1,625,000
August 1, 1999                                     1,685,000
February 1, 2000                                   1,750,000
August 1, 2000                                     1,815,000
February 1, 2001                                   1,885,000
August 1, 2001                                     1,960,000
February 1, 2002                                   2,035,000
August 1, 2002                                     2,110,000
February 1, 2003                                   2,190,000
August 1, 2003                                     2,275,000
February 1, 2004                                   2,365,000
August 1, 2004                                     2,455,000
February 1, 2005                                   2,545,000
August 1, 2005                                     2,645,000
February 1, 2006                                   2,745,000
August 1, 2006                                     2,850,000
February 1, 2007                                   2,960,000
August 1, 2007                                     3,075,000
February 1, 2008                                   3,190,000
August 1, 2008                                     3,315,000
February 1, 2009                                   3,440,000
August 1, 2009                                     3,580,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
Page  9
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04  (b)  of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the  principal  amount  of  any maturity of the
loan to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage  specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the Loan  on  the  day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                           0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
Page  10
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
                deposits  into   the   Special   Account  at  such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the Bank the documents
                and  other  evidence  required  pursuant  to para-
                graph  4  of  this  Schedule  for  the  payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on  behalf  of  the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                Account such  amount  as  the  Borrower shall have
                requested and as  shall  have  been  shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been made out
                of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall  be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the Loan
Account under  the  respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in the
respective equivalent amounts,  as  shall  have  been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any outstanding
special commitment entered into  by  the  Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions  with respect to the Project, shall
equal  the  equivalent  of  twice  the  amount  of  the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the   Loan   allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment  out  of  the  Special   Account:  (i)  was  made  for  an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon notice from the
Bank:  (A)  provide  such  additional  evidence  as  the  Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request,  refund  to  the  Bank)  an  amount equal to the
amount of such payment or  the  portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  no further
deposit by the Bank into  the  Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided  such  evidence  or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
Page  11
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
