                    PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                              CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                                                 <Date>
                                                                               Report No.: AB7159
                                                (The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed)


Operation Name                       Development Policy Loan 2
Region                               EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
Country                              Poland
Sector                               Central government administration (100%)
Operation ID                         P130459
Lending Instrument                   Development Policy Lending
Borrower(s)                          REPUBLIC OF POLAND
Implementing Agency
Date PID Prepared                    October 30, 2012
Estimated Date of Appraisal          April 22, 2013
Estimated Date of Board              April 16, 2013
Approval
Corporate Review Decision            Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                     proceed with the preparation of the operation.
Other Decision {Optional}            Teams can add more if they wish or delete this row if no
                                     other decisions are added

     Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement
     This is the second in a series of two development policy loans supporting the government of
     Poland’s goal of strengthening public finances. The DPL program is expected to support
     Poland’s fiscal consolidation agenda, while strengthening fiscal institutions and improving the
     efficiency and sustainability of social spending.

     Proposed Objective(s)
     The series is designed to support the Polish government in its effort to strengthen public finance
     in the conditions of lasting economic uncertainty in the Euro area. The DPL support is focused
     on three critical policy areas. First, fiscal consolidation is needed to rein in public debt and
     enhance the country’s resilience to external shocks. Second, stronger fiscal institutions are
     essential to ensure that once the fiscal deficit has come down, it remains at prudent levels over
     the business cycle. And third, structural and fiscal reforms are required to secure long-term
     sustainability of social spending, particularly in the face of the country’s aging population. The
     measures under these three areas are also geared to protect fiscal space for growth-enabling
     investments. The authorities value the support of the Bank through policy lending for several
     reasons: it embeds technical advice for reform design; it signals the Government’s commitment
     to key structural reforms; it establishes a time table to anchor the reform process; and it comes
     with lower transactions costs and longer maturity than investment lending.

     Preliminary Description

     The programmatic DPL is structured around three pillars with the following development
     objectives: (i) consolidating public finances to ensure a steady decline of the fiscal deficit to
     stabilize and over the medium-term reduce public debt to maintain favorable access to financial
       markets; (ii) strengthening fiscal institutions through the introduction of fiscal rules to ingrain a
       prudent fiscal stance over the medium term; and (iii) advancing long-term fiscal reforms to
       secure the sustainability of social spending in view of Poland’s demographic challenge. These
       policies aim to enhance Poland’s economic resilience in the face of adverse times. These policies
       also aim at protecting fiscal space for key growth-enhancing investments.
       The proposed DPL2 measures to be supported under each pillar are as follows:
       Pillar 1 Consolidating Public Finances: Fiscal consolidation remains a key policy priority for
       2013. Building on the progress made in 2011 and 2012, a further reduction in the fiscal deficit is
       crucial to adhere to Poland’s commitment under the Excessive Deficit Procedure, to stay clear of
       the 55 percent of GDP national public debt limit, and to protect priority spending.
       Pillar 2 Strengthening Fiscal Institutions: Through the introduction of fiscal rules, the
       Government aims to ensure that once the fiscal deficit has come down after the initial
       consolidation process, it remains at prudent levels over the business cycle. In this process, the
       Government plans to introduce limitations on both national and local government finances to
       achieve a structural fiscal deficit of 1% of GDP in line with the medium-term objective of the EU
       Stability and Growth Pact. These rules would safeguard against the re-emergence of excessive
       structural budget deficits in the medium and long term.
       Pillar 3 Advancing Long-Term Fiscal Reforms: Strengthening public finances also requires
       Poland to continue structural reforms across various sectors. These fiscal reforms are focused on
       helping to secure the sustainability of pension transfers and public health care services, while
       improving the coverage and generosity of social assistance for the most vulnerable. In addition,
       introducing a regular income accounting for farmers will enable moving to a system of regular
       taxation of the agriculture sector based on income, including for the payment all social insurance
       contributions over the medium term.}

       Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects


Poverty and Social Impacts

       The overall poverty, social, and gender impacts of the policy measures supported under this DPL
       series are expected to be positive. Several of the policy measures will improve the living
       standards of the poor, both directly through reforms to social protection programs and indirectly
       through improved stability and solvency of public finances.

Environment Aspects

       The specific policies supported by the DPL series are not likely to have significant effects on
       Poland’s environment, forests, water resources, habitats or other natural resources.

       Tentative financing

Source:                                                                                      ($m.)
Borrower                                                                                       0
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                                        1000
Borrower/Recipient
IBRD
Others (specifiy)
                                                                             Total
        Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Gallina Andronova Vincelette
Title: Senior Economist
Tel: (202) 473-0288
Fax:
Email: gvincelette@worldbank.org
Borrower
Contact:
Title:
Tel:
Email:

       For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
