Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6933-BIH
TECHNICAL ANNEX
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY LANDMINES CLEARANCE PROJECT
JULY 9, 1996



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY LANDMINES CLEARANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Unit of Currency: Bosnia and Herzegovina Dinar (BHD)
BHD 100.00         =         US$ 0.67 (as of June 14, 1996)
US$1.00            =         BHD 148.8 (as of June 14, 1996)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BH            -       Bosnia and Herzegovina
EU            -       European Union
EOD           -       Explosive Ordnance Disposal
FBH           -       Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
ICRC          -      International Committee of the Red Cross
IDA           -      International Development Association
IFOR          -      Implementation Force (NATO)
MAC           -      Mine Action Center
MCPG          -       Mine Clearance Policy Group (under JCC/OHR)
MPRA                 Mine Protection and Removal Agency (national level)
MSPE          -      Ministry of Spacial Planning and Environment (FBH)
OHR           -       Office of the High Representative
PIU           -       Project Implementation Unit
RS            -      Republika Srpska
UN            -      United Nations
UNPF          -       United Nations Protection Force
UNHCR         -       United Nations High Commission for Refugees
USG           -       United States Government
UXO           -      Unexploded ordnance
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY LANDMINES CLEARANCE PROJECT
TECHNIICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
A. Background .....................................................................1I
The extent of landmine contamination .....................................................................1I
Current mine-clearing activity .....................................1-.I
Existing institutions and landmine-clearing capacity ......................................2
Consequences for reconstruction and recovery ......................................2
B. Strategy to Clear Landmines .......................................3
Reconstruction and the landmine program .....................................3
Coordinated international response .....................................4
C. First Year Program ....................................5
Program objectives .....................................5
Program description .....................................5
Setting up institutional structure .....................................6
Protecting vulnerable population groups .....................................7
Increasing local mine-clearing capacity .....................................8
Priority mine clearing .....................................9
Program costs and financing ....................................                                                        10
D. Project Implementation .....................................11
Institutional arrangements .....................................11
Agreements reached ....................................                                                                 12
Procurement, accounts, and reporting ....................................                                               14
E. Appendices
1.        Notes on Mine Clearing Techniques and Technology
2          Institutional Structure for Mine Clearance
3.        Implementation Schedule
4.         Lessons from Mine Clearance Programs
5.        Draft Terms of Reference for a Pilot Project
6          Preliminary Mineclearing Program for Major Infrastructure
7.        Procurement Arrangements
8.        Draft Terms of Reference for Quality Assurance
9.         Estimated Program Cost and Financing Plan
10.       Technical Specifications for Mineclearing.
11.       Responsibilities for Setting Priorities and Project Implementation
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents mnay not otherwise be disclosed wUhout World Bank authorization.



I



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY LANDMINES CLEARANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
A: BACKGROUND
The extent of landmine contamination
1.    Landmine contamination is a problem for all aspects of reconstruction and community
development in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Mines have been used by all sides during more than
three years of violent conflict, and are, in general, likely to be found in a band of contamination
about 5 km wide along former confrontation lines. Estimates of the number of landmines range
from 1.5 million to 3 million. Nearly all of the mines are of ex-Yugoslavian origin, and many
are made mostly of plastic, making them difficult to detect and likely to remain dangerous for as
long as a century. The region is also littered with unused bulk ammunition, much of which is
now in very poor condition. All areas that were considered strategically significant are potential
sites for mines, including roads and mountain trails, roads, bridges, railways, forests, villages,
and agricultural land. Mines have been used to deny access to facilities of all kinds, and to
hinder the reconstruction of roads and bridges, and the restoration of power supplies, water, gas
and railways. Many of the existing minefield maps and records are unreliable, many minefields
have not been mapped, and some areas have been mined and re-mined by both sides, in patterns
which make subsequent detection difficult. Furthermore, mines move with soil erosion and
mines laid near rivers will eventually float in the water; thus mines laid near rivers will
eventually be washed downstream into previously uncontaminated areas. Clearing all the mines
will take years, probably decades, and will be very costly.
2.    UNHCR carried out a general needs assessment survey in June 1994 in 41 communities
in nine regions of Central Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bihac (covering about 20,000 people in
about 5,000 households).  Results of the survey show landmine incidents in 36 of the
communities, the highest in Zenica. More than 12% of households were affected in Gornji
Vakuf, Vares and Zenica; and agricultural production was affected in 17 of the 41 communities.
Access to land in these areas is estimated to have been reduced by 20 to 50% because of mines.
Current mine clearing activity.
3.    Under the Dayton Agreement, the ex-combatants are required to clear their own
minefields from the Zone of Separation (ZOS) or other areas from which their forces are
withdrawn, and to carry out minefield marking. However, complete clearance within the ZOS
cannot be accomplished within the Dayton time framework. Priority is being given to
mineclearing in support of infrastructure reconstruction needs, but the exercise is unlikely to
cover all the priority sites. Until very recently (March, 1996), all areas cleared under the
agreement were cleared to military, rather than civilian ('humanitarian'), standards and will
require verification (see Appendix 1 -- Notes on Mine Clearing Techniques and Technology).
Despite the efforts to date, the majority of mines remain, and a major clearance effort is now
required. Some mines remain even in the areas that have been cleared to a military level, and
these areas will need verification to bring them to a civilian safety level.



-2-
Existing institutions and landmine-clearing capacity
4.    While the need for mine-clearing is urgent, and precedes the need for infrastructure
reconstruction, the institutional arrangements for dealing with this new problem are not yet fully
established. The Ministry of Spacial Planning and Environment was designated as the ministry
responsible for civilian mine-clearing in the Federation, and a mine-clearing agency has been
established for this purpose in RS. A Mine Protection and Removal Agency (MPRA) has
recently been established at the state level; initial staff have established a working relationship
with the Mine Action Center (MAC, which was established under UN auspices -- paras. 13-15).'
Together they should serve as a focus for all mine-related activity in Bosnia until the means and
the timing of a complete transition to Bosnian ownership have been worked out.
5.    The landmine contamination problem will require a long-term clearance effort involving
a large number of mine-clearers, possibly over 2,500. Bosnian UXO disposal experts have been
responding to emergency calls throughout the war and the police continue to respond to such
calls. There are also soldiers who have military mine-clearing experience. There are, however,
very few commercial companies which have all the requirements (technical, managerial, and
implementation skills, and capital) that allow them to respond to the need for civilian mine-
clearing. (i.e. de-mining to humanitarian standards). Moreover, although the needs are large,
resources to turn this need into effective demand are lacking.
Consequences for reconstruction and recovery.
6.    In all the areas where there have been hostilities, particularly where there has not been
continual presence of civilians, there is a risk of accidents and deaths from mines, unexploded
ordnance, and booby traps. Booby traps are particularly likely to be found in areas where there
has been a transfer of territorial control between ex-combatants, and is of substantial concern in
Sarajevo itself. In the absence of comprehensive mine awareness, minefield marking, and mine-
clearing, landmine incidents are likely to increase as freedom of movement increases. The
return of displaced people and refugees, which is anticipated to gather momentum in the spring,
lends added urgency to the problem. The UNHCR's planning figure for assistance during 1996
includes about 870,000 people returning to, or relocating within, Bosnia and Herzegovina during
the year.
7.    Landmine contamination around major infrastructure facilities is already causing delays
in reconstruction. Landmines are suspected in several stretches of power transmission lines, gas
lines, on railway lines, along the edges of roads, on and around bridges and facilities such as
power stations, etc. Landmines and booby traps are also suspected in some of the areas of the
district heating network in Sarajevo. Access to these and other sites for survey and design work
is constrained in many cases because of the known or suspected presence of minefields.
I A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for the Federation has also recently been established. This would be
located physically within the MPRA.



-3-
B.   STRATEGY TO CLEAR LANDMINES
Reconstruction and the Landmine Program
8.    As part of a coordinated effort of the Government and the international community, the
Bank assisted in preparing a reconstruction program (in energy, water and waste management,
transport, telecommunications, agriculture, industry, education, health, housing, and clearing of
landmines) totaling about US$5 billion equivalent over the next three to four years. Clearing
landmines and unexploded ordnance is an integral part of this international effort, and is roughly
estimated to cost about $200 million over the whole period. The reconstruction program was
presented at donors' conferences, starting in Brussels in December, 1995.
9.   In January 1996, the Ministry of Spacial Planning and the Environment prepared a draft
outline of a long term program - "Program of Land Mine Clearing, Protection against Mines and
Other Unexploded Ordnance Remaining after the War on the Territory of Bosnia and
Herzegovina". The program's objectives are the efficient reduction of the risks and of the
suffering caused by landmines and restoration of normal living and working conditions in Bosnia
and Herzegovina. Recognizing the long-term nature of the problem, the program recognized the
need for a heavy reliance on effective protection methods (mine-awareness education, and
marking of some of the mine-fields for future clearance in the near to medium term. Some of the
guiding principles agreed with the Government were that the program would be under civilian
control, and that it would take an integrated view of the needs over the whole territory of Bosnia
and Herzegovina: if the problem is addressed in a piece-meal fashion, duplication or gaps in
mine-clearing may occur, resulting in extra costs -- or worse still, unnecessary casualties in the
civilian population. The program therefore requires cooperation between entities.
10.  It is also understood by all concerned that a program to clear landmines therefore has to
be closely coordinated with the overall reconstruction and economic recovery program and
efforts to reintegrate displaced people. It also has to be carried out according to agreed
procedures for establishing priorities. The importance of making maximum use of existing
Bosnian resources both within the institutions responsible for mine-related activities, and in
terms of mine-clearing capacity, has been stressed by the Bosnian authorities; however, there is a
recognition of the need for some initial international financial and technical assistance.
11.   There is general agreement that, although some core public capacity would be needed to
respond to urgent calls, most of the demining would be carried out under competitive contracting
by trained mine clearers in private companies. The widespread nature of the landmine problem
should provide some opportunity for small scale enterprises, and should generate employment
which may be particularly suitable for demobilized soldiers. All these guiding principles for the
landmine program were discussed and agreed at an early stage with both entities.
12.   The main elements of the program for clearing landmines have been outlined and agreed
with the responsible ministry or agency in each entity during project preparation; i.e., with the
Ministry of Spacial Planning and Environment (MSPE) in the Federation, and the mine-clearing
agency in RS. The agreed program elements include: establishing the institutions needed to
address all aspects of the landmine problem (a central unit and regional offices); carrying out
mine awareness and training programs, mine surveys and minefield marking; mine clearance and



-4-
disposal; mine management training; and safety monitoring and quality assurance.  The
program's objectives are the efficient protection against mines and restoration of normal living
and working conditions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Recognizing the long-term nature of the
problem, there will be a heavy reliance on effective protection methods (mine-awareness
education -- "learning to live with landmines") in the near to medium term.
Coordinated international response
13.   The international community has expressed a great deal of interest in assisting Bosnia and
Herzegovina to address the landmine problem. In view of the current political situation, the
urgency of the problem, and the number of different agencies and entities involved, it was
agreed at a meeting in mid-February, called by the Office of the High Representative, that a
group should be established under the auspices of the OHR. This group, the Mine Clearance
Policy Group (MCPG) is now part of a temporary structure for launching and implementing a
mine-clearing program, and would facilitate the coordination of international assistance, and
foster inter-entity coordination. The Mine Action Center (MAC), under the auspices of the
UN, and working together with the Government, serves as the focal point for all mine-related
activity in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This structure of the MCPG and the MAC has been in
place for several months and has the support of the international community. However, the
structure is temporary, and its functions should be placed entirely within the Government's own
structure at the earliest feasible time.
14.   The MCPG includes representatives of the Government (State, Federation, and Republika
Srpska), and of several international organizations, including the United Nations, the European
Union, the World Bank, the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), and IFOR. Some
international NGOs also attend meetings as observers. The MCPG meetings concentrate on
coordination between international agencies and government, on inter-entity determination of
priorities, coordination, and arbitration. The MCPG is a forum for discussion and facilitation: it
is not a permanent institution, and will meet only until the objective of assisting the
transformation to a Government-owned structure is complete.
15.   The MAC has recently been established in the Sarajevo area to advise the Government.
Its functions will be to manage the mine information system, coordinate the mine awareness
programs, mine survey and minefield marking, training, and mine-clearing activities; and
establish and monitor safety and quality assurance standards. Initially, international advisers are
playing a key role in establishing the MAC and its functions, but as the means and timing of the
transition into a Bosnian Government structure are worked out, the international advisers' role
will diminish. A Mine Protection and Removal Agency (MPRA) has recently been established at
the State level, initial staff have already established a working relationship with the MAC.



-5-
C: FIRST YEAR PROGRAM
16.   The Mine Action Program. The program is a long-term one, with some components
lasting for years, possibly decades. The components of the agreed program include:
a) The establishment of the institutions needed to address all aspects of the landmine
problem (a central unit and regional offices);
b) The establishment of a mine contamination data base;
c) Programs to protect vulnerable populations, such as mine awareness, mine survey and
minefield marking;
d) Specialist mine clearing in support of the high priority infrastructure rehabilitation
projects in the overall reconstruction program;
e) Capacity building, i.e., training and other assistance to expand the Bosnian mine-
clearing capacity;
f) Additional mine-clearing in support of community priorities (local infrastructure and
facilities); and
g) Establishing of a capacity to monitor spending, contractor progress, and safety
standards, and carry out Quality Assurance (QA).
Program Objectives
17.   The objectives of the program are to protect vulnerable groups until mines in their
communities can be cleared, and to clear mines in support of priority reconstruction, economic
recovery, and the restoration of essential public services.
Program Description
18.   In order to achieve these objectives, all elements of the program need to be established,
and a multi-track approach is indicated. Four areas of activity need to be tackled simultaneously:
(i) setting up the necessary institutions and functions to sustain the program; (ii) protecting
vulnerable groups; (iii) increasing local landmine-clearing capacity; and (iv) carrying out urgent
mine-clearing.
19.   The overall landmine clearing program's first year priority activities are:-
a) Institutional development: Setting up the institutional structure and getting it fully
operational will include establishing the mine information management system, and
establishing the capacity to coordinate all mine-related activities, supervise mine-
clearing, oversee operating and safety standards, and carry out quality assurance
(QA).



-6-
b) Mine awareness: National mine awareness programs have been in place for some
time, and are assisted by UN agencies and NGOs who specialize in this area. A
major new effort is now needed, targeting specific vulnerable groups. Programs will
be coordinated through the MPRA/MAC.
c) Increasing Local Mine-Clearing Capacity: A training program is being designed.
It would accommodate common training, safety, and operating standards which can
be set and monitored by the Government. However, there will be a need to train
students from both entities, and discussion is under way as to how best to handle this
requirement. Existing training capacity would be used to the extent feasible, but
would be augmented by additional equipment and by technical assistance in the form
of instructors.
d) Urgent mine clearing: As necessary as the institutional arrangements and mine
awareness programns are, they do not remove landmines. Mine clearing needs to be
carried out as soon as possible in support of urgent reconstruction and recovery
priorities. Within the first year, some of these contracts will be carried out by
2
international companies, but these should be limited .  The procedures for
determining priorities are established; and much of the mine-clearing in support of
major infrastructure has already been identified. Reconstruction of local networks and
other community priorities (hospitals, schools, housing, etc.) is an equally important
part of the overall reconstruction and recovery of Bosnia, and a reasonable balance
needs to be struck between the two.
The program elements are discussed in more detail below.
(a) Setting up the institutional structure
20.   The MAC headquarters in Sarajevo, working in cooperation with MPRA, will be the
main contact point for all other mine-related agencies as well as the focal point for all mine-
related activity. It should have an appropriate size to perform the task in a cost effective manner,
relying heavily on the regional offices. The organizational structure is shown in Appendix 2.
MAC will, on behalf of Government: manage the mine information system; coordinate mine
awareness programs, as well as mine survey, minefield marking, and mine-clearing activities;
and establish and monitor safety and quality assurance standards. The operations would be
heavily dependent on several regional offices for information on locations and data on landmines
and unexploded ordnance. An important part of MAC's work will be assisting the Government
through advice on contracting and supervision of contracts.
21.   The UN has initiated the recruitment of 11 staff (5 international and 6 local). The first
UN- supported MAC staff (chief demining adviser) arrived in Sarajevo in early March, 1996.
The USG indicates that it now has committed funding of about $8.5 million for additional
2 Mine clearing in support of the first few months of the reconstruction program in the roads and bridges, railways,
power, gas, and district heating sectors is being handled through expedited contracting procedures, and is not
financed under this project.



-7-
support to the MAC. The total staff in headquarters and three initial regional offices is planned
to number 109, of which 16 would be internationally recruited; the other 93 would be Bosnian.
The US support will also cover office furniture and equipment, vehicles, and supplies. The
interim MAC is now located in temporary headquarters, and is quickly becoming functional. A
permanent MAC headquarters building is to be provided by Government, and a suitable location
is being sought in the Sarajevo area. It is likely, however, that because of the condition of many
of the buildings, the cost of refurbishing would need to be provided by the international
community. IFOR has indicated an interest in assisting. The specialist expatriate MAC staff
would be replaced by qualified Bosnian staff as quickly as is practicable. The costs of the
Bosnian staff over the first year are included in the program.
22.   Establishing the mine information data base will be an early activity of the MAC.
Information on the locations of mined areas is needed for planning and setting priorities for mine
clearance and mine awareness activities, and for the mine clearance itself. A mine data base was
originally set up under UNPROFOR at the Mine Action Center in Zagreb, subsequently
supplemented with the information from the mine maps from the ex-combatants, using the UN
hardware and software, by the Engineer Branch of NATO (IFOR) as mine information became
available under the Dayton Agreement. This data base, together with the hardware and software,
should be transferred to Bosnian control as soon as possible, to be held in the MAC -- the center
for all mine information in Bosnia. The data will be available to all users, and will be
continuously upgraded as new information becomes available from the survey and clearance
programs, and other sources such civil defense, police, and medical authorities. Computers for
the PC-based mine information management system are being provided with USG funding; the
software to be installed will include MAPINFO, in order to be compatible with the existing data
base, and with the system in Croatia. The initial mine information data base is planned to be
installed in May, 1996 (Timing for the various program components is shown in Appendix 3-
Implementation Schedule).
23.   Not all the maps and records obtained from the ex-combatant armies are accurate, and the
information is not comprehensive. There are likely to be many mined areas not recorded or
mapped. Some survey work will therefore be necessary prior to defining each mine-clearing task
or contract to confirm the extent of certain mined areas. The MAC would coordinate this survey
activity in conjunction with its mine-clearing and mine information functions; and the mine
information data base would be updated with the results of each survey and mine-clearing
operation.
(b) Protecting vulnerable population groups
24.   People living in mined areas, and refugees and internally displaced people, cannot wait
until all mines have been removed. It is widely recognized in Bosnia and Herzegovina that
landmine clearing is a long-term program, and that it is necessary to "leam to live with
landmines". The Government, together with a number of international organizations and NGOs,
has been carrying out mine awareness programs for some time, and the population is, in general,
''mine aware". A new initiative is now needed to ensure that as freedom of movement increases,
and population reintegration programs get under way, the messages are tailored specifically for
the most vulnerable groups, e.g., children, returning families, etc. The programs should be
focussed both in areas where refugees and displaced people are currently located, but also in the



-8-
places to which they will eventually return. It is essential that these campaigns are consistent in
approach and content, and all programs should be coordinated through the MAC, whose mine
awareness officer is already in place. It is important to know whether existing programs are
effective in reaching their targeted population groups; evaluation of existing programs should be
carried out as quickly and efficiently as possible, in order to facilitate design of new initiatives;
and assess the particular needs of vulnerable groups. All new programs should be followed by an
evaluation to make sure they are effective. The Government, in consultation with the MAC, will
be designing and implementing these initiatives over the next few months.
(c) Increasing Local Mine-Clearing Capacity.
25.   Experience in other countries has shown that some degree of specialist training is needed
before humanitarian mine clearance teams can be fielded, despite the existing training in
explosive ordnance removal and the experience gained during the conflict. In addition to the
mine-clearing itself, this would include training for team leaders and supervisors, survey
specialists, mine awareness instructors, dog handlers, and operational and logistic management
staff. Although this is an urgent activity, it is essential that the training program be well-
designed and linked to a structure which will effectively deploy trained mine clearers after their
training course, in order to avoid some of the costly errors that have been made in other countries
(Appendix 4 -- Lessons from Mine Clearance Projects). Where large numbers of trained mine-
clearers cannot be employed, many opt for other jobs, and their skills (and sometimes also their
equipment) is lost. The student output has to match the demand for mine-clearing. Mine-
clearing demand will depend on how effectively priorities can be identified and agreed (para.
28), and on the availability of international funding.
26.   There is general agreement that, although some core public capacity would be needed to
respond to urgent calls, most of the demining would be carried out under competitive contracting
by trained mine clearers, organized in companies. Expanding the Bosnian mine clearing capacity
will therefore require some training in managing mine-clearing teams and companies, as well as
training of an initial core in the specialist skills of humanitarian de-mining. It is estimated that at
least 2,000 mine clearers will be needed in the first three years alone, together with about 75
managerial and administrative staff. The final size of the Bosnian mine-clearing capacity will be
determined on financial rather than operational factors. Since the entities have expressed
willingness to train and work together, a central training organization, allowing greater
Government control of standards, would be the most cost-effective solution. However, facilities
in both entities may be more acceptable initially. Small scale local level training will also be
carried out in two or three locations, at a pilot level, and experience from these (e.g., in
incorporating the necessary medical support and business management skills into the training
program, and in setting up local companies) will be valuable for the design of the larger program
(see Appendix 5 for terms of reference for a local pilot program). No funding is committed yet
for the training program, although the EU is considering a proposal to fund, inter alia, some
initial school facilities and training and equipping of 200 de-miners.
27.   Next steps: It is urgent to move forwards quickly because of the lead-time needed to get
the training facilities operational, and the constraints imposed by the weather -- mine-clearing is
dangerous under snowy or icy conditions. The potential site(s) needs to be investigated, and if,
acceptable, needs to be refurbished as necessary; planning for the training program can proceed



-9-
in parallel. Concepts for a training program are being discussed with the Government and the
MAC. Entity governments will identify potential instructors to be trained in humanitarian mine
clearing methodology; and suggest ways to inform potential students about the opportunities for
mine clearance and management. The potential for assisting the development of new Bosnian
mine-clearing companies through provision of credit, and general management training, etc. (new
business services) through other World Bank projects is being investigated. Most importantly,
the finding needs to be confirmed. The training plan should be presented to the donor
community for possible finding of training facilities and equipment, instructors, operating costs,
and some support for trainees.
(d) Priority mine clearing
28.   Some mine-clearing is needed prior to most, if not all, of the infrastructure repair or
rehabilitation works to be carried out within the first year of the overall reconstruction program.
MSPE has, in coordination with the various sector ministries and agencies, outlined a
coordinated program of such priority needs for major infrastructure in the Federation (Appendix
6). This program will be an important input in setting overall priorities for the country. The
status of coordination of local priorities within RS needs to be reviewed. It is expected that local
priorities, determined at the local level, will be coordinated at the entity level. Until a national-
level agency is fully functional, the MCPG would coordinate the inter-entity aspects of mine-
clearance priority setting and coordination, relying on the Ministry of Spacial Planning and the
Environment, and the RS mine clearing agency, for intra-entity priorities. Programs in other
countries have shown a tendency of major infrastructure to receive a large proportion of the total
mine-clearing attention, effort, and resources, at the expense of these local priorities. A reasonable
balance needs to be struck between the two. It is important to ensure that the balance is maintained
beyond the first-year program. Local priorities can be more complex in terms of organization and
implementation. Given the long-term nature of the mine pollution problem, it is essential that
community-level mine action programs be considered a key aspect of the de-mining program, and
be included in the planning, implementation and evaluation of the program.
29.   The most urgent of the mine-clearing in support of priority infrastructure reconstruction is
being financed under the Emergency District Heating, Gas, and Transport Reconstruction
Projects. The Government is anxious to keep external contracting to a minimum. Mine clearing
works will be grouped in relatively small packages, and are expected to be suitable for the newly
emerging Bosnian mine-clearing capacity. The status of the initial planned landmine-related
contracts is shown in Appendix 7. Quality assurance will need to be carried out for all the mine-
clearing contracts. Initially this will need to be done by contract. Draft TORs for a QA contract
are shown in Appendix 8.
30.   Mine clearance within communities will be in response to local priorities. This could
entail clearing houses and community areas in support of the return or resettlement of displaced
people. In these situations, the clearing of booby traps and unexploded ordnance is likely to be as
important as the clearing of landmines. A pilot project of this nature, involving some de-mining
training in Tuzla and clearing of housing in priority areas, starting with Gradacac, has been
proposed by Norwegian Peoples' Aid. In some cases, the priority may be demining of local
infrastructure facilities. MSPE is preparing a proposal for a pilot project of this nature in the



-10-
town of Olovo,3 which also involves training of local de-miners, for funding under the Dutch
grant.
31.   There may be other clearance needs, e.g. emergency clearance in support of returning
refugees and displaced people, clearance of hospitals, schools, etc., that may require small
emergency clearance teams that are able to address immediate tasks in a quick and flexible
manner. These teams could work from the regional offices to be established under the MAC, and
could be provided by a contractor or an NGO. The provision should include the necessary
equipment and medical support. The US is considering supporting these teams together with its
support to the MAC and the first three regional offices.
Program Costs and Financing
32.   Details of the estimated program costs and the financing plan are shown in Appendix 9.
The total program cost is about $67 million equivalent. The IDA Credit would provide about
11% of the total requirement on IDA terms. The rest would come from contributions in kind,
cofmancing and/or parallel financing from donors. In addition to funds made available by the
Netherlands Government for financing project preparation and pilot projects and the resources
committed for mine awareness, firm commitments for the landmine-clearing program so far have
been made by the UN,4 the EU, Italy, Sweden, the US, and Norwegian Peoples' Aid. Several
other donors, including Belgium, Canada, and Denmark, have indicated amounts or expressed
interest. Funds already committed or indicated amount to more than $50 million. Additional
donor funding is being sought. It is envisaged that the highest demand on funds would take
place in the first two years. Support during this period would provide a good foundation for the
Government's long-term mine-clearing program, which may have to continue for some time
thereafter.
33.   The IDA funds would mostly be used to finance mine-clearing contracts; however,
should there be a shortage of funds for other key items, project design will allow IDA financing
of these critical items. These would be a small proportion of the total, and would be limited, by
and large, to technical assistance, running costs and key equipment.
34.   The MAC is being supported through the UN, with funding from  several donors,
particularly the United States. Several international and local staff are already in place. The
MAC is now functional, but with a minimum staff. It is expected that all key positions will be
staffed and three regional offices will be functional by the end of the summer.  MAC
headquarters is now in a temporary location, and a permanent location will eventually be
provided by the Government. During the first year, MAC headquarters and regional office staff
will be strengthened to the extent possible, but committed funding will support only a very
minimum institutional structure for one year, and is not sufficient to fully equip the three
3A pilot housing project, also to be funded under the Dutch grant, is proposed for Olovo. Olovo may be typical of
many towns in Bosnia, in that it has to tackle the problems of damaged housing at the same time as the lack of
employment (the local industries either suffered loss and/or damage, and/or have no utility supplies). In the case of
Olovo, housing repair and clearing minefields around power lines are identified as high priorities
4Japan is contributing through the United Nations, as is Denmark; the EU may also contribute $2.2 million of a
total $16.8 million through the UN.



-11-
regional offices (e.g., with mine-protected vehicles) and to expand the number of regional
offices. Additional funding is needed in order to attain the optimum number and staffing of
regional offices.
35.   Mine awareness is already supported to some extent by the various agencies involved,
including, for example, ICRC, and UNICEF, as well as the Bosnian Government. Additional
resources, technical and financial, are needed. Funding for the training program is not yet fully
committed, although there has been some interest expressed by two potential funding sources.
Some project preparation, institutional development and capacity building cost will be supported
by an IDA Project Preparation Facility in the amount of US$0.75 million. The Government of
Italy has committed about $4 million for landmine clearing in designated priority towns.
Additional funding is needed for mine clearing, in support of reconstruction of both major
infrastructure and local priorities. Several donors, including Sweden, Norway, Denmark, and the
EU, have not yet made a final determination as to which part of the landmine clearing program
they would support.
36.  The program components to be supported by the World Bank take into account the
potential contributions, in terms of financial or technical support, of the international
organizations, donor countries, and NGOs. The Bank's emphasis would be on providing
assistance for the fourth component -- urgent mine-clearing, in support of reconstruction and
recovery priorities (major infrastructure and local priorities), including financing mine clearing
contracts.  However, project design will remain flexible to include funding for essential
components, should other financing sources not materialize in a timely manner. In particular, the
training program requires assured support. Likewise, some technical assistance for specialist
support to the Government would also need to be included. By providing financing for mine-
clearing contracts and, if necessary, for the institutional and training components, the project
would ensure the core technical and managerial skills needed over the first year. This would,
however, mean that fewer resources may be available for landmine clearing. The speed of
implementation of the mine clearing component will depend on the presence of these core skills,
as well as on the resources available.
37.   Flow of Funds. The State would be the borrower for the IDA funds, and would make the
funds available to the Federation and to the Srpska Republic for implementation within the
entities. Subsidiary lending and implementation arrangements would be agreed between the
State and the Federation, and between the State and RS.
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Institutional Arrangements
38.   The newly established MPRA would work with the responsible agencies within the
Federation and the RS to implement the project. Detailed arrangements were agreed at
negotiations, and in a follow-up letter (Appendix 11); these arrangements will be outlined in the
subsidiary financing and implementation agreements between the state (BH) and the Federation,
and between BH and RS. Entity priorities for mine-clearing will be determined within the
entities; these would be collated by the MAC/MPRA, and any problems in inter-entity



-12-
coordination would be resolved by the MCPG. The entity agencies (the MSPE in the Federation,
and the mine-clearing agency in RS) are already collaborating with the MAC on determining
mine-clearing tasks in accordance with the priorities. Government institutions responsible for
mine-clearing would receive some technical assistance as required to help them carry out their
managerial responsibilities, but have agreed during negotiations to rely heavily on the MAC for
the technical aspects of the mine-clearing program; i.e., for mine information, for coordinating
mine-clearance, mine awareness, and training programs, for setting standards, and for
supervising mine-clearing contracts on behalf of the Government, including carrying out Quality
Assurance.
39.   The initial three regional offices are expected to be operational by July. The mine
information data base within is expected to be installed and operational soon. The first contracts
for mine-clearing are expected to begin in August. Contracting and payments would remain a
central responsibility5; the regional offices, however, would be responsible for supervision as
soon as the offices are functional. The MAC, together with the MPRA, would also begin to
coordinate the survey activity that would be carried out in conjunction with the mine-clearing.
The mine information data base would be updated with the results of each survey and mine-
clearing operation. Mine clearing would be carried out according to standards set by the United
Nations.
Agreements Reached
40.   During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
- Subsidiary financing agreements: Funds for carrying out the project within the two
entities would be made available by the state according to subsidiary financing
agreements
* between BH (the Borrower) and the Federation; and between BH and RS. Project
implementation agreements would also be entered into between BH and FBH and
between BH and RS.
* Implementation responsibilities: details are outlined in the Technical Annex
(Appendix I 1) and are included in the Minutes of Negotiations.
* Arrangements for institutional capacity: it was agreed that implementing agencies
would work closely with the UN-sponsored Mine Action Center, whose functions
include advising the Governnent on setting of standards, contracting and supervision
of contracts, including quality assurance (QA) of the work done.
* Mid-term Review: It was agreed that the Federation and the Republika Srpska
would each prepare a report on progress, outlining achievements to date and
remaining measures to ensure efficient implementation of the remainder of the
project, by about June 30, 1997.
5 Except for very small contracts (under $10,000) which would be handled by the regional offices.



-13-
*  Safety standards and destruction of mines. It was agreed that all mine clearance
activities would be carried out, and all mines cleared under the project would be
promptly destroyed, in accordance with safety standards and guidelines of the United
Nations.
*  Laying down of new mines. The Credit Agreement specifies that if, in the sole
opinion of the Association, the development activity for which the mine-clearing has
been carried out is jeopardized by the laying of new landmines, the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account may be suspended.
*  Conditions of Effectiveness and Disbursement: The signing of the subsidiary
financing agreement between BH and FBH is a condition of effectiveness for the
Credit. The arrangements for project implementation in RS are likely to take
additional time, however. In order not to unduly delay project effectiveness,
therefore, signing of the subsidiary financing agreement between BH and RS before
December 31, 1996 has been made a condition of disbursement for the RS component
(part B) of the project.
41.   High priority mine-clearing already under preparation: Preparatory work has been
done on contracts (financed under the Bank's transport and energy projects) to remove landmines
in several high priority infrastructure sites -- i.e., in roads and railways, power transmission and
gas. The known or suspected presence of mines in these sites is, in many cases, restricting access
to engineers to carry out design work for reconstruction. These contracts correspond to the needs
in the first few months of the overall reconstruction program (Appendix 6 for the Government's
preliminary program6). Although these contracts are financed under other projects, the work is
being coordinated through the MPRA/MAC, as it needs to be done in a systematic institutional
manner.
42.   The technical specifications for the remaining mine-clearing work would be based on
those already worked out for the first contract (Appendix 10). The remaining work would be
carried out according to the priorities determined by the Bosnians, through the MCPG; i.e.:
* electricity transmission and distribution;
. roads;
. railroads;
. gas.
The second priority will be given to:
* housing
* water supply
social facilities (schools, health institutions, cultural institutions)
* communal activities
agriculture
* forestry.
6 Priorities for mine-clearing are currently being worked out in greater detail.



-14-
However, much of the urgency in terms of the 'second priority' list will depend on the needs
related to reintegration of displaced people and refugees; and on funding. For example, some
donors are likely to specify housing as a first priority for their funds. Any proposal for mine-
clearing using IDA administered funds will only be considered if it is in accord with proposed
Bank guidelines concerning financing landmine clearance -- i.e., landmines need to be cleared to
make available land or infrastructure required for a development activity agreed with the
Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Procurement, Accounts, and Reporting
A. Procurement
43.   Because of the urgent nature of the project, the works, services and goods to be procured
with IDA funding would follow the expedited procedures developed for emergency projects in
Bosnia and Herzegovina. With the exception of the Italian contribution to the Trust Fund to be
administered by the Bank, the participation of donors and other international institutions is likely
to be on a parallel basis, and will be according to their own procurement arrangements. The
procedures for procurement for the IDA financed items are as follows:
44.   For mine-clearing works procurement will be as follows:
*  National Competitive Bidding (NCB); procedures acceptable to IDA will be used
for contracts not to exceed US$ 1 million up to an aggregate amount of US$ 4.5
million.
*  Direct Contracting (DC); procedures will be used for minor mine clearing works in
support of reconstruction of certain key facilities up to an aggregate amount of US$
1.5 million. The use of DC would be reserved for works which are on the critical path
of urgent reconstruction or recovery projects.
45.  Substantial procurement of goods is not anticipated under the IDA credit. However,
where the procurement of equipment is deemed necessary by IDA for the implementation of the
landmine program, it will be procured as follows:
*  International Shopping (IS) will be used for procuring project equipment and
materials estimated to cost more than US$ 200,000 equivalent, but US$ 1,000,000
equivalent or less per contract.
*  National Shopping (NS) will be used for contracts for goods available in Bosnia and
Herzegovina up to an estimated cost of US$ 200,000 per contract, with at least three
quotations.
46.   Consulting Services: consultancy services contracts, including training, totaling US$ 0.5
million, will be procured through short listing procedures. Any sole sourcing for consultant
services identified during project implementation will be subject to the Bank's prior approval.



-15-
47.   All contracts for works and goods procured through direct contracting, as well as the first
two contract's procured through NCB, IS, and NS, and all contracts over US$ 500,000, will be
subject to IDA's prior review procedure. All consulting contracts in excess of US$ 100,000 for
firms and US$ 50,000 for individuals would also be subject to IDA's prior review. It is intended
that most of the prior review process would be carried out by the resident mission. All contracts
not subject to prior review would be subject to post review.
48.   Institutional arrangements for procurement: The MPRA, with support of the MAC,
will be responsible for the technical aspects of procurement. A contracting and implementation
adviser has been recruited, with financing under the Dutch Trust Fund for project preparation.
The adviser will assist the MPRA/MAC in the first few months, including training of Bosnian
staff in project implementation. A procurement seminar was held in June, 1996, and was
attended by the appropriate staff of the MPRA, MAC, and PIU.
B. Disbursement, Accounts, and Audit.
49.   The US$7.5 million equivalent would be disbursed against project components as
follows:
Table I Disbursement Categories
($ millions)
Categories                                     IDA-financed    % of expenditures
amount
1. Works (mine-clearing contracts)
(for national infrastructure and               5.00                100
local facilities)
2. Goods
(vehicles, mine-clearing equipment,              0.17               100 foreign
supplies, etc.) 100 ex-factory
supplies, etc.)                                                   85 local
3. Technical Assistance
(Advisory services,                            0.18                100
trainers and training support
consultants for pilot projects and
Quality Assurance)
4. Staff support and running costs
(Incremental Operating Expenditure)               0.17                100
5. Refunding of Project Preparation Advance                     amounts due pursuant to
(including $0.375m for goods; $0.055 for          0.75       section 2.02 C of the
incremental operation expenditure; and $0.32m               Credit Agreement
for consultant services and training)
6. Unallocated                                       1.23
TOTAL                                        7.50



-16-
50.   Special Account.  To facilitate timely disbursement, special accounts would be
established in commercial banks acceptable to the World Bank. The authorized allocations of
the special accounts would be limited to US$ 0.525 million for Part A of the Project and US$
0.225 million for Part B of the Project, representing about four months of the Bank's share of
estimated expenditures. Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three
months, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate documents.
51.   Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Disbursements would be made against Statements
of Expenditure for contracts for goods and works up to US$ 500,000 equivalent; (b) all
incremental operating costs and commercial services; (c) for consulting firms up to US$ 100,000
equivalent; and (d) for individual consultants up to US$50,000 equivalent. All related SOE
documentation would be retained by the implementing agency, and made available for
subsequent examination by independent auditors and Bank supervision missions.  For all
contracts above these limits, full documentation would be required. The project completion date
would be June 30, 1998, and the closing date would be December 31, 1998.
52.   Accounts. Accounts of the expenditures made under the IDA credit, and with donor
resources deposited in the Bank's trust fund for use in this project, would be kept by the State
Ministry of Finance. The project accounts at the State MOF would consist of a record of
withdrawals on the IDA Credit. Responsibility for consolidation within each entity will begin
with project implementation. Such accounts shall be maintained in accordance with sound and
internationally recognized accounting principles and practices satisfactory to IDA.
53.   Audits. An auditor's opinion and report on these statements that is satisfactory to the
Bank will be provided within four months of the close of the fiscal year. The auditor's report
will include a statement on the adequacy or otherwise of the accounting system and internal
controls, the reliability of statements of expenditures as a basis for loan disbursements, special
account audit and compliance with financial covenants. The foregoing project accounting,
financial reporting, and auditing arrangements should provide adequate and timely information to
IDA for supervision of the project. These arrangements were agreed during negotiations.
C. Monitoring and Supervision
54.   Reporting. The MPRA will report on progress of the overall mine-clearing program
within a format, and with a frequency, to be determined by consultation involving the MCPG,
MAC, and implementing agencies in the entities. The reporting will cover progress on
institutional development, mine awareness, training, and mine-clearing. Progress reports would
be available to co-financiers. Arrangements for progress reports and project completion reports
were agreed with the borrower during negotiations.
55.   Supervision Plan. Bank supervision will be very frequent at first, as the Bank is an
integral part of the international community's assistance, both advisory and technical, to the
newly established structure for mine-clearing. In particular, the Bank's technical consultant will
travel relatively frequently, on short visits to Sarajevo (e.g., about every 2 months in the first six
months), and will be available for frequent consultation by telephone and fax. After the first six
months, a mission would evaluate project progress and review supervision needs accordingly.



Appendix 1
page I of 4
Notes on Mine Clearance Techniques and Technology
I. Mine-clearing capacity
There are several sources from which mine clearers can be drawn. These each have
advantages and disadvantages:
*  Military teams: Local military teams have been conducting mine clearance since the
conflict, but their utility is often problematic because donors and reconstruction
program managers have little control over military clearance priorities and standards.
Donors and aid organizations in general are reluctant to fund military organizations.
Military teams are, in general, experienced in laying mines or in breaching minefields
(para. 3), but do not have experience in clearing mines to a high standard (to
humanitarian or civilian standards), and this has caused accidents. Nor do they have
any incentive to clear mines to a high standard without receiving additional pay.
Difficulties in monitoring military operations is also a consideration.
-  Police and civil defense: these have an important and continuing role in responding
to emergency calls for assistance, especially in situations involving an isolated mine
or unexploded bomb. Civil defense teams have usually operated on a volunteer basis
through the war, and typically need to return to their normal employment after the
war.
-  Commercial mine-clearing companies: commercial mine clearing organizations are
typically formed in response to the large-scale need for mine-clearing as a result of
protracted hostilities. Several such companies exist internationally, with experience
developed in Angola and/or Cambodia, for example, but they vary in experience and
competence.
*  Explosive ordnance disposal teams:  In Bosnia, some local commercial EOD
companies were still carrying out disposal activities from time to time on WWII
ordnance, but large-scale mine clearance requires a different organizational approach
from EOD, for which additional training is necessary.
.  Non-governmental organization (NGO) mine clearing teams:  NGO  mine
clearance teams have considerable experience, and may be willing to assist in mine-
clearing programs, and can often (but not always) offer lower prices, because of
voluntary or donor country contributions. They tend to be familiar with civilian
(humanitarian) clearance requirements, and can design their programs to train and use
local personnel; but they operate on a smaller scale than commercial companies.



Appendix 1
page 2 of 4
*  Local "developmental" mine-clearing capacity:  A local capacity, trained in
civilian mine clearing standards, is essential to address the wide-scale and long-term
needs of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Although this capacity may not initially be
sufficient to address the most immediate needs, it is important that international
assistance focuses on local management and training from the beginning, so that local
teams and companies can play an increasing role as the overall mine clearing program
is developed.
II. Mine Detection Methods
The choice of technology depends on the task, and no method is effective for clearing all
mines. In practice, several methods of mine clearing may be used, and several methods of
detection used in sequence to improve coverage.
* Manual probing: Due to the preponderance of non-metallic or minimum metallic
mines throughout the former Yugoslavia, the primary mine detection is 'mine
probing' supplemented by magnetic mine detection. This involves the insertion of a
lightweight mine probe or prodder into the ground, at an angle of 30, to a depth of
100 mm, repeated every 3 cm across the area being searched. The operator uses the
probe to feel for hard objects buried under the surface. The insertion angle of 300 is
intended to minimize the risk of the operator inadvertently pressing on the top of the
mine. A trained mine clearer can expect to clear about 2m2 per hour using this
method.
* Mine sensing dogs: Dogs can be trained to react to the smell of explosives, thus
indicating the presence of mines. In mine clearance, the primary use of dogs is to
screen large areas very quickly, and allow mine clearers to focus operations on the
areas where the dogs indicate the presence of mines. The dogs require skilled
handlers who are able to interpret their signals and maximize their limited endurance.
Mechanical enhancements to dog-detecting operations are increasingly becoming
available (e.g., collecting samples of materials, with the location of the samples
recorded, and then using dogs to detect the presence of explosives). Vapor emission
detection systems have also been developed, but none yet have the sensitivities of a
trained dog.
*  Satellite or Aerial photography:  Detection of mined areas depends on the
identification of systematic or unusual disturbance of the earth. This method is only
effective for identifying relatively recent disturbances in open country. Ground
verification is required; and within the mined area, individual mines still need to be
located. No system has yet been demonstrated that will successfully detect mines in
the Bosnian environment.



Appendix I
page 3 of 4
III. Mine Clearance Devices
Mechanical clearance devices, such as flails, are rarely able to guarantee a level of
clearance greater than 80%. Although they offer fast coverage, they require skilled
operators and are greatly affected by the type of terrain they encounter. They may be
used in support of manual clearance operations, but may not, on their own, provide
the
necessary level of clearance. For example, mechanical methods may be used as a
proving (testing or verification) method in areas where mines are suspected, as part of
the quality assurance process after manual clearance operations, as part of a route
clearance operation, or to clear vegetation before manual clearance.
*  Explosive clearance devices, such as fuel-air explosives or explosive hoses, have a
limited effective range and a large explosive area; they can damage infrastructure in
the mined area, and are difficult to deploy in areas covered by vegetation or rocks, or
in built-up areas. Their effectiveness is greatly reduced when deployed against blast-
resistant mines. They are therefore regarded as breaching devices (section IV). and
are not considered suitable for use in normal civilian operations. They are also
several orders of magnitude more expensive than manual clearance.
-  Mine protected vehicles are not clearance devices; but are a valuable asset to mine-
clearing operations, particularly to reconnaissance parties attempting to assess the
extent of mined or possibly mined areas.  They can also transport goods and
personnel over routes which may be mined, thus facilitating reconstruction even while
demining is taking place. As such, they are valuable life-saving equipment for those
operating in mine contaminated areas.
*  Other methods. Other devices may be appropriate where the potential user can
demonstrate that the equipment can achieve the necessary level of clearance.
Considerable research and development needs to be undertaken to identify and
develop faster means of detecting the presence of minimum metallic mines; at
present, no such technology is yet suitable for field use. Any proposal for the use of'
new technology needs to be accompanied by substantial proof that it is capable of
reaching the minimum clearance standard for civilian mine clearance operation
(section IV).
IV. Mine Clearance Standards
Military mine clearing. Many soldiers (particularly field or combat engineers) are
trained in minefield breaching operations, carried out to 'punch a hole' through a
minefield during combat. A minefield breach is normally carried out in support of an



Appendix I
page 4 of 4
immediate tactical objective, and may involve a situation where the local commander
judges that the risk of breaching the minefield, with whatever resources are available,
is necessary in view of the tactical aims -- given that minefields, like other military
obstacles, are often covered by defensive fire under such circumstances. A minefield
breaching operation may result in significant casualties among the conducting troops
or subsequent users. Mine breaching techniques are designed for speed, and often
merely push mines aside without destroying them. They are therefore rarely suitable
for civilian mine clearance operations.
Civilian (humanitarian) mine clearance standards. For civilian use of land, there
is no 'acceptable' level of residual landmine contamination. However, although
100% clearance is the objective of all civilian mine clearance efforts, a total guarantee
that all the mines have been removed will never be given by any reputable mine
clearer. The UN advocates that humanitarian mine clearance operations should aim to
achieve 100% clearance, with a minimum standard ' in excess of 99% clear'. At
present, the only method capable of providing this level of clearance is manual
clearance using mine probes supported (but not replaced by) mine detectors and
sniffing dogs. The other military or mechanical methods described above may be
used to complement manual mine clearance, particularly in survey or 'proving'
operations intended to establish whether mines are present. They should not be
regarded as primary means of mine clearance.



Institutional Structure for Mine Clearance
Joint Civil Commission
(JCC)
MAC                    MCPG 
[hief Demining Advisor
Office Manag                     Deputy       j      Driver/interpreter
DATA Management       Mine Awareness Section     Operations Section        Logistics Section     Administration Section
Section                                       Safety and QA          Contract Approva
. __ _  .         Y               [_     Supervision
|MAC Regional Office #1|_I 
| MAC Regional Office #2              l                                          Field Implementation Partner(s)   ITraining Structure
TaskediCoorcinated by the MAC'
|MCRegional Of fice #3                                                                          ___i'___
0_
x



IMPLEMENTATION SEQUENCE
ID   Task Name                                Duration                _99 Feb             Aug                 oc      NDec                                   Ma 
1    Initiate MAC                                    Od
2    MAC Located                                     1
3    Recruit for MAC                               25w_____                                                  _
4    Select Locations for Regions                    I d
_    Recru for Region s1
6    Select Location for Dog School (RS)             1d d      _.
7    Do/Handler Training                           42w
a    Select Location for Main Training School        1 d
9    Mine Clearance Training                       30w
10   Local Mine Clearance Contracts                 37w
11   Joint Venture                                  3. 
12                                                   Od.
CONTRACT IMPLEMENTATION
1199G               I                               1997
ID   Task Namfe        Duration   Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct| Nov I Dec I Jan I Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun  Jul  Aug I Sep | Oct T Nov |Dec  Jan I Feb I Mar
1    Pilot 1 (Olovo)      26.6w       *       __
2    Pilot2                 26w
3    Local Contrac        26.4w     .   .
4    Local Contrat     2    26w          .   .
6    Local Contract 3     25.8w
6    Jodrit Venture 1       26w
7    Joint Venture 2      30.2w  .
9 Sarajevo Gas            26.2w            ._ . ______
S    GA Contract          26.4w         _   r       _           r     _
Fr
Task                   _               Summary
Landmires Cleararnce
Date: Thu 7/11/96
Milestorne        *Rolled Up Milestone
Page I



Building Local Capacity
400
300
4200
100
0
June     July     Aug      Oct      Dec     Feb      Apr    June
Months
* NPATrg  *Pilot Projects  *EUTrg  a MainTrg
ox
01



Appendix 4
Page 1 of 2
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY LANDMINES CLEARANCE PROJECT
Lessons from Mine Clearance Programs
1.    Large scale civilian mine clearance is comparatively new. Clearance after World War II
was done sporadically in several countries, often by soldiers. The end of the cold war allowed
the world to look at the mine contamination conditions in Afghanistan, Cambodia, and several
countries in Africa and Latin America, and to establish civilian programs to deal with them. The
first major program was set up by the United Nations in Afghanistan, where mine clearance
started in early 1990. The clean-up after the Gulf War in 1991 and 1992 brought major civilian
contractors into the mine clearance business, and many lessons were learnt during this period.
These have been confirmed or modified as a result of other programs in Mozambique, Somalia,
Rwanda, El Salvador and Angola. Although the mine problems and their solutions have been
unique to each country, the fundamental principles remain the same.
2.    Mine Clearance by Soldiers. It is tempting to assume that, because soldiers lay mines
easily, they should be able to remove them with equal facility. The lessons of the past indicate
that unfortunately this is not the case. Removing mines requires a different order of discipline,
training and equipment to carry out large-scale humanitarian mine clearance, which is (or should
be) more like an industrial process than its military counterpart, minefield breaching (Appendix
8). Soldiers tend to hurry the mine-clearance process, which usually results in casualties.
Soldiers can be trained in civilian mine clearance methods, and regiments of Bangladeshi,
Egyptian, and Pakistani soldiers were trained in Kuwait. It has been found that ex-soldiers, who
have chosen to make their living clearing mines are often more mature, and make better mine
clearers.
3.    Mechanical Mine Clearance.  Every mine clearance program has searched for a
mechanical solution to the mine clearance problem; the circumstances in Kuwait should have
been ideal for such a solution. In fact, the lessons of Kuwait, and other programs, have shown
that hand clearance is still the only truly thorough method of mine clearance. There is no
shortage of ideas for new techniques and technologies, but most of these fail to take fully into
account the destructive energy of an anti-tank mine. They also tend to assume that mines always
work according to their design parameters.  Mines, however, become unreliable and
unpredictable, which increase their danger, and the difficulty of finding a safe and reliable
method of clearing them.
4.    Management and Administration. The lessons that have been repeated in almost all
programs is that a capability in mine clearance alone is insufficient. The mine clearance
capability has to be backed by capable and experienced managed and sound administration.



Appendix 4
Page 2 of 2
Many small mine companies ceased operations in Kuwait because or poor management and the
resulting accidents. It is difficult to eradicate all accidents, because, ultimately, during the
clearance process, a mine-clearer has to deal directly with the mine, and many accidents are due
to the human failings of inattention, lapses of discipline, or lapses of memory.
5.    Support Systems. Another lesson of experience is the folly of rushing into a clearance
program, without proper attention to the medical, communications, casualty evacuation and
support systems that have to be in place before the first mine clearer steps into a minefield.
These preparations take time, but cannot be ignored or set aside in the interest of more rapid
action.
6.    Enhancing Local Capacity. It is also essential to think in detail about how local
capacity is to be created and supported. It has been found that setting up an organization to train
mine clearers is only part of the problem. More important is establishing the management
organization that will deploy them after training. In three major programs, more students were
trained than could be employed; many drifted into other jobs, so their skills were lost. Others
needed expensive re-training before they could be employed in mine-clearing. Setting up a mine
clearance capacity therefore requires detailed planning and careful coordination of training and
employment opportunities. This, in turn, means identifying and scheduling mine-clearing
priorities and, at the same time, securing adequate funding (including fitting cash flows to the
priority schedule) from donors, loans, and other sources.
7.    Risks and Public Perception. The lessons of the past six years have shown that until
successful new technologies for mine detection and clearance can be developed (which will
require substantial funding), mine clearing will continue to be a slow, dangerous, and expensive
business. Any mine clearing program faces the probability that there will be fatal or serious
accidents, which will spark criticism from those who are divorced from the problem. However,
there is less likely to be criticism from those whose lives are endangered by the mines, or whose
access to utilities, services, shelter, or employment is curtailed by mine contamination.



Appendix 5
Page 1 of 4
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY LANDMINES CLEARANCE PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for a Pilot Project
I. General Information and Requirements
1.1   The pilot project contractor (PPC) is required to provide qualified staff and equipment for
training up to 40 Bosnian mine clearance students in techniques of civilian (humanitarian) mine
clearance in support of a pilot mine clearance project, in town  . The project will set up two
independent Bosnian 20-person mine and munitions clearance teams in the area, with a view to
forming a mine-clearing company.
1.2   The PPC's training team will set up a small operations headquarters in the town, assisted by
the local authorities. It will assist in the selection and screening of 40 candidates for mine clearance
duties, including potential team leaders and administrators. It will assist the local authorities in the
selection of two medical specialists. When the recruitment has been completed, the PPC will set up
a small instructional facility, and train the first 20-person team, which will be deployed into the
field. The second 20-person team will then be trained and deployed.
1.3   The trainers will also give instruction in the management of small local mine clearance
programs. When the initial training is complete, the instructors will deploy into local minefields
with the students, continuing the instruction and supervision under operational field conditions.
Training will initially continue for three months, with an option for a further two months.
1.4   The PPC will provide advice and practical assistance, as necessary, on all aspects of setting
up a new enterprise (credit, taxes, registration, etc.).
1.5   The students will be selected by the Government acting in cooperation with the Mine Action
Center (MAC) and the local authorities. It would be an advantage if the selected students were
demobilized soldiers with some previous experience of Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) or
demining training. They should be local, and available for operations in the general area. They
would be self-administered.
Training
1.6   The following subjects would be taught:
* The use of conventional mine clearance equipment, i.e., prodders and electronic mine
detectors
* The methodology of civilian mine clearance



Appendix 5
Page 2 of 4
* Survey and marking of minefields
*  Safety procedures
*  Render Safe procedures for the range of mines and munitions found in Bosnia
*  Demolition procedures
*  First aid procedures, and assistance to paramedics in case of accident.
*  Refresher training on communications.
Selected students will also be instructed in the management of mine clearance programs, including
operations, administration and logistic support.
1.8   The PPC will provide five (5) training personnel. Four of these, a Project Leader, survey
specialist, safety specialist, and business adviser, will be required for an initial period of six months.
The fifth instructor will be deployed for the six weeks of instruction only, i.e., until both teams are
fielded. All team members involved in mine-clearance training will be required to give instruction
in the classroom and in live minefields.
1.9   The syllabus for training will initially be provided by the United Nations through the MAC.
This will be modified in the light of experience. The training course will last three weeks, although
this may be shortened or lengthened if necessary. Further periods of refresher training may be given
if appropriate.
1.10 Tasking and supervision. The main tasking authority is the Government, who will act
through its authorized MAC in the areas of-
*  Endorsing the pilot mine clearance contract
*  Acting as the initial contact point between the PPC and the local municipal and military
authorities
*  Providing any relevant mine date from the Central Mine Data Bank, including details of
known minefields in the local area and the types and characteristics of mines likely to be
found.
*  Monitoring the implementation of the contract.
*  Carrying out Quality Assurance, to provide certification of satisfactory completion o
works in accordance with the terms and conditions of the approved contract.



Appendix 5
Page 3 of 4
1.11   Local Authorities. The local municipal and military authorities will be asked to cooperate
with the project, initially by providing:
*  A site for indoor instruction
*  Nominations for 40 students
*  Two medical orderlies
*  Two interpreters
*  A site for a clearance project headquarters
*  A site for storage of demolition supplies
*  In coordination with Government, a site for the demolition of unexploded mines and
munitions
*  Accommodation for the five instructional staff
*  Nominations for two team leaders
*  A project coordinator and administrator/secretary
Local headquarters will also prepare a list of priority areas for clearance, under the authority of the
Government, and with the assistance of the MAC.
1.12  It will probably be necessary to provide the salaries for all local demining and other staff, at
least for the training period.
1.13   The term of the contract will be two hundred (200) days, but may be renewed as mutually
agreed.
1.14  Equipment. The PPC will supply the following equipment:
*  Three 4x4 six seater cars, fitted for radio
*  Four 11 -seater vans, two fitted for radio
*  Two six-seater cars, locally converted to carry stretchers
*  electronic mine detectors
*  sets of protective clothing
*  global positioning system (GPS): navigational equipment
*  sets of hand tools in light satchels
*  twenty-person tents
*  x 1.5 kw generator
*  km of minefield marking supplies
*  two lap top computers
*  maps of the local region
*  blackboards, stationery, and other instructional material



Appendix 5
Page 4 of 4
1.15  Safety. All mines and munitions will be destroyed on the day they are found. Destruction
will be by detonation, deflagration or burning as appropriate. The PPC team is responsible for
ensuring that no workable mines or munitions are removed from the clearance sites.
1.16 Coordination. All mine clearance will be coordinated with the MAC, which will be the
center of excellence from whom advice on all mine clearance matters will be sought. The MAC
will provide information on any known minefields in the local area, and will be informed of the
progress of any clearance carried out by the local teams.
1.17  Medical. The project leader, in conjunction with the Government and the local authorities,
will recruit two trained medical specialists, one of which will accompany each 20-person team in a
locally converted ambulance. They will make and maintain contact with the local hospital.
1.18  Communications. The Government, in conjunction with the local authorities, will allocate
a radio frequency for the mine clearance project. Communication will be maintained between the
clearance teams and the project office, and between the medical teams, clearance teams and the
local hospital. If possible, communications will be by hand-held VHF radios, working n the
simplex or duplex mode. Communication with the MAC will be by telephone, or if necessary a
radio link will be established.
1.19  Reporting.  The PPC team will report to the local authorities weekly, and to the
Government as required by MAC. Any accidents or incidents will be reported to the MAC
immediately. The PPC team will keep a record of all mines and munitions cleared, stating location,
numbers and type. The Team will maintain a mine and munitions clearance record in the format
requested by the MAC, and will present the record to the MAC when and where requested. At the
end of the contract period, the PPC will complete a full report of the progress of the contract, in a
format to be agreed by the MAC.
1.20  Timing. The contractor will be expected to have recruited and deployed the four team
members within 20 days of contract signing. Training should start within one week of deployment.
The first 20-person team will be ready for deployment into mined areas three weeks after the start of
training, and the second team should be able to deploy within three weeks of the first. After three
months, training of the local team leaders will commence, with the aim of dispensing with all
consultants by the end of six months.
1.21  Costs. An outline budget giving estimated contract costs (in $ thousands) for the first six
months is as follows:
Personnel, including consultants, local mine clearers, and administrators  $229
Equipment, including vehicles, mine clearing, and training equipment  $384
Running costs                                                       $115
Total (6 months)                                             $728



Appendix 6
Page 1 of 9
PRELIMINARY MINE CLEARING PRIORITIES
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION - TABLE OF PRIORITIES
Note: The sequence of items is accorded to their prioritv. The width of the area to be
checked and demined is 30 m. 15 m to each side of the electric distribution
lines. The lengths are given in the table.
Name of the Distribution Line         Checking and demining    Length
(km)
From         To station
station No.   No.
1 .  DV 110 kV Gorazde 2 - Gorazde I      I            8
2.  DV I IOkV Gorazde I - Foca             35           68         [10
1.  DV 220 kV Kakanj - Salakovac           131         222          27.5
231          242          3.8
____________  ~31.3
2 '. 4 DV kV Salakovac - Mostar            6            18          3.6
3.   DV kV Zenica 2 - Tuzla                36           56          6.3
98           111         4.0
136          173         11.9
22.2
4 .  DV 220 kV Jablanica - Mostar          109          115         2.0
124          129         1.9
3.9
1 .  DV 110 kV Kakanj - Sarajevo 4                     7            1.2
I11         24           4.0
D26          33          21
34          48           4.5
99           106         1.7
13.5
2.   DV 1 10 kV Sarajevo I - Gorazde 1     SA 18        Gor. 1      62.0
(consideration of alternatives in
progress)
3.   DV 110 kV Donji Vakuf - Bugojno       118          133         3.6
135          148         3.5
____________             7.1



Appendix 6
Page 2 of 9
Name of the Distribution Line        Checking and demining    Length
(kmn)
From        To station
station No.  No.
4.  DV 220 kV Tuzla - Gradacac            166          173         2.5
173         196         8.3
197         209         4.6
15.4
5.  DV 220 kV Tuzla Gradacac              123          142         5.6
6.   DV 2xl lOkV Sarajevo-Jablanica II. III   I        31          9.5
7.  DV 110 kV Gracanica - Lukavac         59           99          12.0
107         139         9.0
21.0
8.  DV 220 kV Krupa-Bihac                 200          232         9.5
9.  DV 220 kV Kakanj-Prijedor             91           86          6.4
105         99          3.5
128         118         4.8
161         158         11.5
176        4.4
. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  3 0 .6
10. DV Prijedor-Bihac                     185          217         10.2
11. DV 220 kV Sarajevo-Jablanica          1            8           1.4
1           2 3           .
1           18          5.0
11.9
12. DV I IOkV Mostarl -Mostar2            4            TS M2       5.6
13. DV 110 kV Lukavac - Srebrenik         14           17          1.7
14. DV 2xi i OkV Jablanica -Mostar 1      108          113         1.5
15. DV 2xl 10 kV Sarajevo 1O-Sarajevo7    1            16          3.6
16. DV 2x 110 kV Zenica-Zavidovici        3            27          7.4
17. DV 110 IkV Travnik l-Travnik 2        1            17          4.6
18. DV 110 kV Jajce-Travnik
19. DV II0 kV Jajce - Travnik             85           173         23.5
20. DV 110 kV V.Kladusa-Vrmogorc          1            28          7.6
30          41           3.5
11.1
21. DV I IOkV Bihac - EVP K. Vakuf        5            25          5.7
22. DV 110 kV Sarajevo-Visoko             I            46          12.2



Appendix 6
Page 3 of 9
ROADS-PRIORITY SCHEDULE
I     BRIDGES
1. Bridge over the river Bosna (Cekrcici) on MD Sarajevo-Visoko
2. Four bridges over the river Ljubinja on Ml 8 Sarajevo-Doboj
3. Bridge over the river Spreca (Dobosnica) on M4 Doboj-Tuzla
4. Bridge in Maglaj on Ml 7
5. Bridge over the river Vrbas in Donj i Vakuf on Ml 6
6. Bridge "Komar" on M5 Donji Vakuf-Travnik
7. Bridge over the river Una in Bosanska Krupa
8. Bridge over the river Sana (Vrhpolje) on MI5 Sanski Most-Kljuc
9. Bridge over the river Bliha (Fajtovci) on R 405 B, Krupa-Sanski Most
II    ROADS
I. Sarajevo-Semizovac-Olovo Ml 8
2. Tarcin-Stup Ml7
3. Semizovac-Visoko M5
4. Maglaj-Koruse M17
5. Zavidovici-Ribnica R 467
6. Gomji Vakuf-Bugojno M 16.2
7. Jajce-Donji Vakuf-Turbe
8. Jablanica-Prozor-Gornji VakufM16.2
9. Cerik-Orasje M1.8
10. Olovo-Kladanj M18
11. Travnik-Turbe M5



Appendix 6
Page 4 of 9
RAILROADS IN BOSNIA A.ND HERZEGOVINA - PRIORITY SCHEDULE
Explanation: Checking the railroads should include the width of 10-15 meters on the
open road, including the bridges, tunnels. culverts. and in stations,
besides the station tracks. the width of 6 meters to both sides of the
end tracks. Checked should also be the business premises and
buildines in the area. (station buildings, warehouses. workshops, KM
plants. etc.)
1     RAILROAD SARAJEVO-PLOCE
Note: The funds needed for rehabilitation of this line are partially provided through
the EU and World Bank programs. But what is needed are an emergency
survey, preparation of the design documents, and synchronization of the works
with completion of the bridges in the Mostar area and starting the full-length
operation of the line Sarajevo-Ploce.
No.  Name                                        Length      Priority Rank
1.1   From the Al. Most station to the station
Zovik. passing the stations Blazuj and      17 km           I
Hadzici
1.2   Zone of the destroyed steel bridge over the
river Dobrinja between the stations Al. Most
and Blazuj. km 8+025. with the approach
road. Width that should be checked is 50 m.  40 m           I
1.3   The locomotive depot near Rajlovac. with
workshops. tracks, and connective lines
towards Miljacka. Al. Most and Rajlovac                     I
station
1.4   From the station Stara Dreznica to the station
Rastani, including the stations Dreznica and  22 km         I
Raska Gora. only some spots



Appendix 6
Page 5 of 9
2.    RAILROAD SARAJEVO-ZENICA
Note: Funds for rehabilitation of this railroad are partly secured bv the programs of
the World Bank and EU.
No.  Name                                       Length      Priority Rank
2.1   From the station A. Most to the station
Visoko. passing the stations Rajlovac.     20 km
Semizovac. and Podlugovi. partially                        II
2.2  Zone of the destroved concrete bridge over
the river Bosna. between the stations
Semizovac and Podlugovi. km 239-445.       120 m           I
50m wide. with the approaching road to the
bridge.
2.3   Zone of the destroved concrete bridge over
the river Bosna. between the stations
Podlugovi and Vosoko. km 228+581. 50m      120 m           I
wide. with the approaching road to the
bridge.
3.    RAILROAD PODLUGOVI-VARES
Note: Funds for reparation of this line are partially predicted by the World Bank
programs.
No.  Name                                       Length      Priority Rank
3.1   From the station Podlugovi to the station
Breza, including the line Ljesevo-R. Polje,  7 km
partiallv                                                 II



Appendix 6
Page 6 of 9
4.    RAILROAD: ZENICA-DOBOJ
No.  Name                                        Length    l Priority Rank
4.1   From the station Zavidovici. to the station
Sevarlije. partiallv. especially on from the
station Dolina to the station Maglaj. and
from the station Maglaj to the station Trbuk,  30 km       II
including the station Maglaj. Both tracks
should be checked.
4.2   Zone of the destroyed concrete bridge over
the river Bosna between the stations Maglaj
and Sevarlije. km 106+690. Checked should  120 m            II
be the width of 50 m. including the roads
I approaching the bridge.
5.    RAILROAD:          TUZLA-DOBOJ
No.  Name                                        Length    | Priority Rank
5.1   From the station Dobostica. to the station
B.P.Selo. partiallv.                       30 km     |     II
5.2   Zone of the destroyed concrete bridge over
the river Spreca between the stations
Dubostica and B.P.Selo. km 29+002.         150 m           II
Checked should be the width of 50 m.
including the roads approaching the bridge.
6. RAILROAD: TUZLA-BRCKO
No.  Name                                        Length      Priority Rank
6.1   From the station Bukovac to the station
Brcko. including the station Bukovac       10 km           III
partiall v
6.2   Zone of the destroved bridge over the river
Sava in Brcko. km 51+587. This is the
border bridge between R H and R BiH.       300 m           III
Width to be checked is 50 m. including the
road approaching the bridge from the BiH
side.



Appendix 6
Page 7 of 9
7. RAILROAD: ZIVINICE-ZVORNIK
No.  Name                                        Length      Prioritv Rank
7.1   From the station Kalesija to the station
Ceparde. including parts of the station     8 km           III
Kalesija.
8. RAILROAD: B.NOVI-BIHAC-KNIN
Note: It is necessary to provide approach to the bridge in order to enable survey of
the present state and preparation of the project of bridge rehabilitation.
No.  Namne                                       Length      Prioritv Rank
8.1   From the station Blatna. to the station
B.Krupa including the some parts of the     15 km           II
station B. Otoka..
8.2   From the station Ripac to the station Kulen
Vakuf on the territory R BiH. including the  16 km          II
I parts of the Kulen Vakuf station.
8.3   Zone of the destroyed steel bridge over the
river Una between the stations Ripac and
Loskun. km 83+005. Checked should be the   150 m            II
width of 50 m.
8.4   Zone of the destroyed concrete viaduct
between the stations Kulen Vakuf and        150 m           II
Martin Brod. km 113+019. width 50 m.
8.5   Zone of the destroyed steel bridge over the
river Una in Martin Brod. ki 1 16+75 1.    150 m            II
Width 50m.



Appendix 6
Page 8 of 9
SARAJEVOGAS - PRIORITY SCHEDULE
I     GASLINE ZVORNIK-SARAJEVO
1. Block stations and branches
1.2. Semizovac
1.3. Branch to Zenica
1.4. Block station Srednje
1.5. Block station and cleaning station Paklenik
1.6. Branch to Vogosca
1.7. Butile
2. Gasline route 12 m wide
2.1. Route Barice-Semizovac            3      km
2.2. Route Butila-Semizovac            6      km
2.3. Route Semizovac-Srednje           21    km
2.4. Route Srednje-Podpaklenik         20    km
2.5. Route Podpaklenik-top of Karaula  6      km
lI    GASLINE SEMIZOVAC-ZENICA
1. Block stations and branches
1. I Block station Semizovac
1.2 Facility Nebocaj donji
1.3 Block station Donja Misoca
1.4 Block station Podlugovi
1.5 Branch to Visoko
1.6 Facilitv Donja Vratnica
2. Gasline rout 12 m wide
2.1. Route Semizovac-Donja Misoca
2.2. Route Donja Misoca-Podlugovi
2.3. Route Podlugovi-Donja Vratnica
2.4. Route Donja Vratnica-Porjecani



Appendix 6
Page 9 of 9
III    HIGH PRESSURE RING-SARAJEVO
1. Substations on the high pressure ring
1.1. Butila
1.2. Doglodi
1.3. Otes
1.4. Ilidza. left side of the river Zeljeznica
1.5. Ilidza. right side of the river Zeljeznica
1.6. Swimming pool Ilidza
1.7. Blazuj
1.8. Mostarsko raskrsce (crossroads to Mostar)
1.9. Hadzici
1.10. Kasindolska
1.1 1. Nedzarici
1.12. Grbavica
1. 13. Vrbanja bridge
2. Route of the high pressure gas ring
2.1 Butila-Doglodi
2.2 Doglodi-Kasindolska
2.3 Kasindolska-V.polje
2.4 Doglodi-Stup
2.5 Otes-Hadzici
2.6 Vraca-Grbavica
2.7 Grbavica-Hrasno
2.8 Grbavica-Vrbanja bridge
2.9 Ilidza-S.kolonija



Appendix 7
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY LANDMINES CLEARANCE PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
for IDA credit of S7.5 million
(US$ million, including contingencies)
Consulting         2
COMPONENT                   NCB           DC'        Services     Other        Total2
A: Works (Mine Clearing) for:        4.5           1.5                                   6.0
National Infrastructure
Local Facilities
B:  Goods and Equipment                                                    0.245        0.245
C: Consultant Services and                                     3.00                      3.00
Training
(IDA financed amount)                                      (0.26)                    (0.26)
D: Incremental operating                                                   0.245        0.245
Expenditure                                                           _
E: Refunding of Project                                        0.32        0.43          0.75
Preparation Advance
Total                                4.5           1.5         0.58        0.92          7.5
' Includes direct contracting (DC) for very urgent small works on the critical path for reconstruction or recovery
projects
2 Total includes $0.62m for procurement of goods by national and international shopping; (of which $0.375m under the
PPF); and $0.30m for incremental operating expenditures (of which $0.055m under the PPF)



Appendix 8
Page 1 of 5
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY LANDMINES CLEARANCE PROJECT
Draft Summary Terms of Reference for Quality Assurance Assessment
I. General Information and Requirements
1.1  It is anticipated that contracts let by the Bosnian Government through the Mine Action
Center (MAC) will be let competitively, and contain a requirement for the work under contract to
be subject to Quality Assurance (QA) conditions. QA is central to the contractual process, to
ensure that mine clearance is carried out in a thorough, safe, and cost-effective manner. QA
assessment will initially be carried out by a QA team consisting of a contractor, supported by a
group of Bosnian specialists.
1.2   Requirement. The general requirement for the contractor is to establish a QA assurance
section in the MAC, to carry out QA on all mine clearance contracts let by MAC. The contractor
will recruit and assemble a team of qualified staff, sufficient to provide a small headquarters
section and the resources to provide at lest two QA teams. The headquarters element will
provide support within the MAC, and the teams will be deployed to scrutinize the operations of
the contractors, in up to two separate locations.
1.3   Specifications and standards: The QA procedures will be carried out in accordance with
Section II. The Contractor will, through the senior members of the assessment team, advise the
MAC on the measures being taken to ensure the maintenance of high standards of mine and
munitions clearance, and to suggest modifications and improvements to the QA assessment
procedures.
1.4   Tasking and supervision: The main tasking authority is the Government, acting through
the MAC or one of its Regional Offices in the Federation and the Republika Srpska. The
Government shall be responsible for:
* Determining the priority for the QA assessment on contracted mine clearance work,
in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract
* Authorizing the contractor to carry out QA assessment, including allowing the import
of the contractor's equipment, vehicles and supplies required for the assessment.
. Authorizing the QA assessment contractor to demand from the mine clearance
contractors any document or facilities necessary to the QA assessment process.
* Establishing any necessary contact between the contractor and the Roads Directorate,
Railways Organization, Elektroprivreda, Sarajevo Gas, and the District Heating



Appendix 8
Page 2 of 5
authority to confirm that the specifications of the cleared areas complies with the
requirements of those Agencies.
*  Providing mine data from the central mine data bank, including details of known
minefields in the contractor's areas of operations and the types and characteristics of
mines likely to be found.
*  In conjunction with all parties, ensuring full and free access to the areas under their
control for the purpose of conducting QA monitoring and assessment.
*  Monitoring of the implementation of the QA contract, to ensure that the provisions of
the contract adhered to; and
.  Liaison with other agencies and/or organizations conducting, or involved with,
demining activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
1.5   Use of Local Labor. A pool of skilled labor exists in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including
certified EOD specialists. The QA contractor will, with the assistance of the Government, recruit
a number of local staff to enable the assessment to be one by mixed expatriate/local teams.
1.6   Training Facilities.  Training of local QA assessment staff will be carried out by
contractors both in the MAC and on or near the worksite.
1.7   Equipment and Supplies. The contractor shall bring sufficient equipment, supplies and
spare parts for six (6) months of operation, with the exception of fuels and lubricants. Fuels and
lubricants and maintenance and repair of vehicles shall be the responsibility of the contractor.
1.8   Accommodation. The contractor shall be required to find suitable accommodation for its
expatriate staff, and to provide its own logistic support. When working on a detached site,
accommodation for all employees, both local and expatriate, shall be provided by the QA
contractor, in conjunction with the MAC and the mine clearance contractor.
1.9   Transport. The QA contractor shall provide sufficient vehicles to ensure that each
assessment teamn shall be self sufficient in land transport.
1.10  Reporting and Marking. The QA contractor will keep a record of all visits to the
clearance contractor, and of any advice or warnings given to that contractor. He will record the
numbers and areas of sites sampled in the QA assessment process, and of any finds in the
sampled areas. He will report on the QA carried out on a weekly basis. A three-month report is
also required, as well as a report at the end of the contract period. He will submit these reports in
the format requested by the MAC. If the QA contractor finds any mines in the sampled areas, he
will mark the areas of a potential mine hazard in accordance with current MAC marking
procedures. Any mines or munitions found during the QA sampling must be completely
destroyed by the mine



Appendix 8
Page 3 of 5
clearance contractor on the day of discovery, by detonation, deflagration or burning as
appropriate.
1.11  Medical Support. The QA contractor will ensure that adequate medical cover and backup
casualty evacuation is available for his QA staff. When operating in close proximity to clearance
contractors, the QA staff will benefit from the medical and casualty evacuation cover provided
by those contractors. When operating independently, the QA contractor my provide his own
medical support.
1.12  Communication. The QA contractor is responsible for ensuring that there is a reliable
means of communication between the QA assessment teams and the MAC, the clearance
contractors, the mine clearance contractor's paramedics and doctor, the hospitals and the
CASEVAC system. This communication will use radio frequencies in cooperation with the
Government communication authority. The QA contractor will ensure that sampling operations
are dependent on the maintenance of communications with the medical staff, and will cease if
such communications are unworkable.
1.13  Training. The QA contractor is responsible for training the local Bosnian QA team
members up to the standard when they can take full responsibility on behalf of the Government
for the QA process. This training must be completed by the end of the contract period.
1.14  Administration, Logistics and Equipment.  The QA contractor is responsible for
providing all the elements of administration and logistics required for the completion of the
contract, and for the provision of all operational equipment, including the detectors, prodders and
protective gear required for his teams, both expatriate and Bosnian components. The QA
contractor is responsible for the provision of food, water, fuel, vehicles, spare parts, and repair
and maintenance capability. Any vehicles and equipment purchased as part of the contract will
be transferred to the MAC for use by the Bosnian QA teams, at the end of the contract.
1.15  Insurance and Compensation. The QA contractor is responsible for establishing his own
insurance cover, both for accidents to QA assessment staff and for damage to third parties or
third party property. The Government will not accept liability for any injury, loss or damage
arising from accidents during the QA assessment process, or from any contract concerning mine
and munitions clearance.
II. QA specifications
2.1   The QA assessment will take place in three phases:
* The QA contractor will examine the qualifications, standing orders, and safety
regulations of the mine clearance contractors before they start work, to ensure as far
as possible that the mine clearance contractor can establish a safe and effective
clearance regime.



Appendix 8
Page 4 of 5
*  The QA contractor will make numerous planned and random visits to the clearance
contractor's work site, to ensure that the approved clearance procedures are being
fully and safely complied with.
*  The QA contractor will carry out random sampling of the cleared areas, to check that
no mines or munitions have been left uncleared by the contractor. If necessary, the
MAC will check up to 100% of the cleared areas; under normal circumstances, the
proportion actually sampled will be lower.
2.2   Quality Assurance Standards.  Before the mine and munitions clearance task
commences, the MAC will define the clearance standards to be achieved, which will allow the
MAC to measure the compliance of the mine clearance organization with their contractual
obligation. These clearance standards will be agreed by the clearance contractor before the
contract is let. The QA standard to be achieved will normally be set at 99.6%; this figure is the
expected achievement level on all sites, irrespective of the depths to which the clearance
contractor is able to clear. The clearance contractor will be expected to achieve 100% clearance
at the depth specified in the contract prior to work commencing. This will be a practical depth,
taking into account the type of clearance to be used and the specific clearance needs of any
particular site. The 99.6% figure means that although the contractor must clear all mines to the
practical clearance depth stated in the contract, he has no liability after the QA and handover
process for:
(a)   mines and munitions buried deeper than the search requirements stated for the
site;
(b)   mines or munitions migrating into the contract area, as a result of flooding or soil
movement; or
(c)   subsequent dumping of mines or munitions, or re-mining by third parties.
2.3    Handover. The QA contractor will assist the MAC in the establishment of a formal
handover process, and in defining the point at which any area cleared by the mine clearance
contractor is ready for general use and the clearance contractor's invoices may be submitted for
payment. The handover process is as follows:
* The clearance contractor will issue to the MAC a handover certificate which declares
that to the best of his knowledge and belief, the declared area is free of mines and
munitions, to the standards required by the MAC.



Appendix 8
Page 5 of 5
The QA contractor's assessment team will assess the cleared area after the issue of the
handover certificate, by sampling a [pre-determined] area of the cleared zone to
ensure that the clearance is free of munitions and mines to the standards established
by the MAC. The assessment team will forward the handover certificate to the MAC
with an endorsement which states that a sample was examined by the team, and no
munitions or mines were found.
* If any munitions or mines are found during the QA assessment, the site will be re-
cleared to achieve the 100% requirement at the expense of the contractor.
2.4   The Government will state in the clearance contract how much time is available for the
QA Contractor to carry out QA; this will vary according to the nature of the clearance contract,
but will probably not exceed three weeks. After the QA period has expired, the cleared area will
be accepted as free of munitions and mines by default, and any clearance failures discovered by
QA assessment after the time deadline will be cleared at the Government's expense. Once the
handover process is completed, the Goveirnent accepts the ground as ready for subsequent use
on the understanding that the whole QA process has sought to minimize the residual hazard, but
cannot guarantee that all the ground is 100% clear of mines and munitions.
2.5   After the QA process is complete, and the site has been "handed over" to the
reconstruction contractor, it becomes the responsibility of that contractor. This includes ensuring
the safety of his own staff and maintaining the marking of the cleared area during his occupancy
of the site.
2.6  In the event of a mine or munitions accident during the process of QA assessment, the
accident will be the subject of an independent Board of Inquiry set up by the Government. The
QA contractor will be responsible for cooperating fully with the Board, and will be required to
abide by its findings and recommendations.



Estimated Program Cost and Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Estimated
first year     UN       US       EU     ITALY    Other   WB2    Total    Unfunded
program cost                                      Donors'           available    Needs
MAC HQ.                                    2.3
- Manpower costs                                     0.9
- Office costs                                       0.4
- Vehicles, radios and clearance equipment           0.5
- Running cost                                       0.5
-Regional Offices                          6.6
- Manpower cost                                      1.2
- Office cost                                        1.2
- Vehicle radios, EOD & clearance equipment          1.5
- Running cost                                       2.7
Total MAC & Regional offices3              8.9              1.8     7.1                                           8.9          0
Mine awareness                             2.5                                                  0.5               0.5         2.0
Local Capacity Building,                   9.7                      1.4      5.6                         1.5      8.5         1.2
including training facilities, teachers, student
support, dog school, equipment, and
Casevac support; and technical assistance
Mine clearing and QA                       45.94                             8.2      4.0       2.6      6.0     20.8        25.1.
- national infrastructure                          21.0
- local facilities                                 23.4
QA                                                 1.5
Unallocated                 n.a.                              2.8                8.2      0       11.0        n.a.
TOTAL                      67.0           1.85     8.5    16.66      4.0       11.3'    7.5     49.7-       17.3
Sweden, NPA, Netherlands, Belgium, Denmark, and est. contributions from donors for mine awareness programs.
2 Allocation of WB funds among components not final; does not include $5 million funded under transportation and energy projects.
3Funding covers a very minimum MAC (minimum vehicles and advisory staff; 3 regional offices); does not cover adequate vehicles, staff, which should be added in the second
year, together with additional regional offices (7 are recommended).
4Costs are rough estimates, in the absence of surveys.
5Includes general contributions, and a contribution of $l .3 m from Japan, through the UN voluntary trust fund (EU contribution through UNTF is shown under the EU column).  m
6 
Includes $3.6 m from ECHO, and $2.5 million channeled through the UN trust fund; total allocation by components not determined                       =
7Total includes amounts not allocated to components.                                                                                                  x
NOTE: These are estimates of the costs of the overall mine clearing program in Bosnia and Herzegovina over the first year or so. The information on donor funding is based on ,
available information and may not be fully accurate.



Appendix 10
Summary Technical Specifications
for Mine Clearing in Support of Major Infrastructure
Power Transmission Lines: Mine clearing would be carried out along the rights-of-way, to a
width of 30 m (15 m on each side of the center line), and a distance of not less than 10 meters
from the foundations of the transmission towers.
Roads: the shoulders (verges) would be cleared to a distance of 2 or 3 meters, depending on the
existence of drains;
Railways; clearance would be of the whole track width of 6 meters, and a width of 10 meters on
one side; as well as any points, switches, signaling or communications fixtures;
Bridges; all bridge structures, abutments and piers over the length of the bridge on land, to a
distance of 10 meters from the structure.
Gas. Clearance or verification operations would be carried out on designated gas pipeline bloc
valves and other pipeline worksites.



Contract Preparation
-technical trends                              RESPONSIBILITIES FOR EVENTS (2): PART A IMPLEMENTATION
-cost estimates
-preparation of bidding
documents
MPRA, with the suppon of Ihe MAC
Pre-selecuoa of conractors and         Bids evaluation and
issuance of "hivitalions to Bid"     selection oftthe contractor          Signature of Contract
MPRA, PlU iointlv                  Sekclion Commitnee                 MPIR,    iointly
~~UointI               f Technical supervision and QA
l l   _ MPRA, with the suppon of the MAIC
Execution ofthe works                                                          Final A
Contractor            ]                                           MPRA, with thes    t oqf he MAC
_        ~~Payments_
UPiK4, PlUjointly
Issuane of crtificat
JCAS
Note 1:  MPRA                          Mine Protection and Removal Agency
MAC                          Mine Action Center
PIU                          Federation Project Implementation Unit
Selection Committee          To be constituted with inter alia, representatives of the MPRA and PIU.
Note 2:  For World Bank funded projects, the World Bank has to review some ofthe steps.
Note 3:  For projects under USS 10,000, implementation and payments will be the responsibil ity of the MAC Regional Offices.
go



Contract Preparation
-technical trends                               RESPONSIBILITIES FOR EVENTS (2): PART A IMPLEMENTATION
-cost estimates
-preparation of bidding
documents
APR4. wilh th. support ofthe ML4C
Pre-selection of contractors and          Bids evaluation and
issuance of "Invitations to Bid"       selection of the contractor          Signature of Contract
MPRA, PlU joinly                     Selection Committee                 MPRA; PIUjointly
Technical supervision and QA
AR'ItA, with the suipport of lthe ALCt
I Execution of the works                                                            FnlO
1  Cont|ractor                                                       AIPRA, wvith the support of the AVC
Payments
MPRA4, PJU jointly
Issuance of certificate
JCMS
Note I   MPRA                           Mine Protection and Removal Agency
MAC                           Mine Action Center
PIU                           Federation Project Implementation Unit
Selection Committee           To be constituted with inter alia. representatives of the MPRA and PIU
Note 2:  For World Bank funded projects, the World Bank has to review some of the steps.
Note 3:  For projects under US$ 10,000, implementation and payments will be the responsibility of the MAC Regional Offices.
00*0
fDo
-'5j
O _.



RESPONSIBILITIES FOR EVENTS (1): SETTING UP MINE CLEARANCE PRIORITIES
Regular establishment ofReiwo
Federation priorities                                              Federaionpiew   e         Rtfcto of_
_   MSPE        _ .                                           Federation priorities     the selected  |Implementation
MSPE                 priorities,   (See affached)|
Identification of                                  Aggregation of national priorities                                decision on
priorities from  _                                   (within each entity, allocated                                  inter-entity
various sources                                 _   amounts are to be spent as per                                    issues and
entities' priorities)                                      arbitration if
an entity
Head of MAC/ Head of MPRA                Review of RS            expresses
Regular establisment of                                                   priorities          disagreement
RS prioritiesRSA.MP
RS ASAg                                                                              MP
Note:   MPRA                    Mine Protection and Removal Agency
MSPE                   Ministry for Spatial Planning and Enviroment
MAC                    Mine Action Center
RS Ag.                 Republika Srpska Agency
MCPG                   Mine Clearance Policy Group
O X*









IMAGINCI
Hep-ort No:17-   6933 BIH
Type  VW
-r4V A



