Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19436
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY LANDMINES CLEARANCE PROJECT
Credit No. 29050-BA
June 16, 1999
Infrastructure Sector
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 20, 1999)
Currency Unit   =   Convertible Mark (KM)
KM1   =   US$0.544
US$1   =   KM1.83
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ICRC  - International Committee of the Red Cross
IDA  - International Development Association
IEBL  - Inter-Entity Boundary Line
IFI  - International Financial Institution
IFOR  - Implementation Force
MAC  - Mine Action Center
OED  - World Bank Operation Evaluation Department
PIU  - Project Inplementation Unit
SFOR  -  Stabilization Force
UN  - United Nations
UXOs  - Unexploded Ordnance
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Christiaan Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Director: Ricardo Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Leader: Eva Molnar, ECSIN
Team Leader: Jacques Bur6, ECSIN



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY LANDMINES CLEARANCE PROJECT (CREDIT No. 29050-BA)
Contents
Page
Preface ..................................i
Evaluation Sumimary .................................                                             ii
Part I: Project lInplementation Assessment ..................................1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES                .................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES .................................2
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ............................. ..4
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .................................5
E. BANK PERFORMANCE .................................6
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .................................7
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .................................7
H. FUTuRE OPERATIONS .................................7
I. KEY LEssoNs LEARNED .................................9
Part II: Statistical Tables .................................                                    10
Appendixes
A. MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE
B. BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
C. IBRD MAP 28134
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY LANDMINES CLEARANCE PROJECT (CREDIT No. 29050-BA)
Preface
This is the Inplementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Emergency Landmines Clearance
Project in Bosnia and Herzegovina, for which a credit (29050-BA) in the amount of SDR5.3
million equivalent was approved on July 30, 1996 and made effective on September 5, 1996.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1998 (original closing date). It was fully disbursed, and
the last disbursement took place on July 15, 1998. Cofinancing for the project was provided by
the Governments of Italy, the Netherlands, and the United States.
The ICR was prepared by Jacques Bur6 and Aymeric-Albin Meyer (ECSIN) of the Europe and
Central Asia Region and reviewed by Christiaan Poortman, Bosnia and Herzegovina Country
Director (ECC02), Eva Molnar, Transport Sector Leader (ECSIN) and Ricardo Halperin, Sector
Director (ECSIN). The Borrower provided comments that are included as appendixes to the
ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission, May
16-21, 1999. It is based on material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to preparation
of the ICR by preparing the Final Evaluation Report.



- 11 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY LANDMINES CLEARANCE PROJECT (CREDIT No. 29050-BA)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    During the hostilities which wrought havoc in Bosnia and Herzegovina from 1992 to
1995, landmines were used extensively by all parties to the conflict. It is estimated that about 1.5
to 3 million' mines had been laid during the three years of conflict. At the end of the hostilities,
many of the existing minefield maps and records were unreliable, many minefields were not
mapped, and because both sides had mined alternately the same areas, subsequent detection was
difficult. As the presence or suspected presence of mines was likely to be an obstacle to the
reconstruction of the country in most sectors, the reconstruction program of Bosnia and
Herzegovina was designed to include a mine clearing component, which materialized under the
Emergency Landmines Clearance Project (ELCP).
Project Objectives
2.    At the end of 1995 it was estimated that clearing most of the areas suspected to be mined
would take years and possibly decades, especially as there was no demining capacity available in
the country. In response, the donor community, NGOs and IFIs started various programs to
minimize the impact of mine contamination in the country. The ELCP was the first-ever Project
the Bank had specifically designed to focus on demining. As the Bank had no previous
experience in the sector, the project objectives were modest and much was expected to be
learned from this experience.
3.    The ELCP was viewed as the first phase of a broader Mine Action Program, the objective
of which was to reduce as much as possible the uncertainty related to the presence of mines. The
objectives of the ELCP were to: (i) establish institutional structures to plan and regulate
demining; (ii) protect the most vulnerable groups, primarily through mine awareness programs;
(iii) expand Bosnia and Herzegovina's mine clearing capacity; and (iv) carry out mine-clearing in
support of most urgent reconstruction and recovery and to enable the restoration of essential
public services.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The project has been most successful in achieving its physical objectives and relatively
successful in achieving its institutional objectives. The project was very efficient in surveying
and clearing minefields, both in terms of quantity (compared to both civilian and military
performance) and costs (compared to civilian mine clearing unit costs). Overall, a territory of
I  As per United Nations Mine Action Center (UNMAC) estimate as of 1996



- iii -
6.5 square kms has been surveyed/cleared under the Project (about 60% of the total surface
surveyed/cleared in Bosnia through 1996-1998) while the Bank project expenditure was only
30% of the total resources spent for demining in Bosnia and Herzegovina (about US$22 million).
The average unit price for clearing minefields decreased about 45% between the beginning and
the end of the project period. The average price for demining works is now DEM 3 per square
meter.
5.    Mine awareness has been mainly conducted by organizations such as the U.N., I.C.R.C2
and Non-Governmental Organizations (like U.N.I.C.E.F.). The Bank has contributed to those
efforts by administering a Canadian grant which funded mine awareness lectures for about 7,000
people countrywide.
6.    On the institutional side, the project has contributed to the establishment of a local
administration to manage mine-clearing activities. The project also helped to develop a local
mine clearing capacity. There are now several commercial demining companies that have been
established. The development of the local contracting capacity has been fostered by (i) the
participation of local contractors in joint-ventures with international experienced companies, and
(ii) training and equipment provided to deminers by the Netherlands, the U.S. and United
Nations. In addition, since June 1998, the Stabilization Force (S.F.O.R) has been building up a
local military capacity to clear minefields at the humanitarian demining standards3. As
"conimercial" mine clearing (as conducted under the ELCP) is only economically justifiable in
areas of economic importance, the long-tern approach is likely to rely more and more on
military personnel to keep the cost of demining activities as low as possible.
7.    Although a functioning institutional framework has been put in place and a capable local
mine clearing capacity has been developed, Bosnia and Herzegovina is still relying too heavily
on donor assistance. There is a definite need to integrate more the mine-clearing institutional
framework within the govermnent's structures. Given the fact that surveying/clearing areas
suspected to be contaminated is likely to take more than a decade and that donor resources are
likely to shrink over such a long period, mechanisms to ensure local funding of mine clearing
activities have to be developed.
8.    Bank assistance was centered on tasks where the Bank had a comparative advantage i.e.
the establishment of project implementation structures and the development of demining
capacities. The Bank (i) introduced a commercial approach to mine-clearing; (ii) developed
project management; (iii) helped building a local contracting capacity; and (iv) participated in
the establishment of institutions in close coordination with organizations such as the U.N. The
comparative advantage of the Bank in those activities has been widely recognized, and is
underpinned by the results achieved. The Project has allowed mine clearing to go faster and
cheaper, and to focus on priority areas.
2  International Conmmittee of the Red Cross.
3  Humanitarian demining standards provide a framework for the creation of Standards Operating Procedures
(SOPs), which in turn detail the manner in which specific mine clearance operations are conducted. Examples
of SOPs and guideline documents can be obtained from the Mine Clearance Policy Unit, DHA, United
Nations, New York, NY 10017 USA.



- iv -
Summary of Findings and Future Operations
9.    The major factors which affected project implementation were: (i) lack of procurement
experience and unfamiliarity with Bank policy and procedures on procurement, (ii) weak and
fragmented institutional framework4; (ii) limited number of experienced demining contractors at
national and international levels at the beginning of the implementation phase; and (iii)
conflicting approaches of the donors involved in mine clearing. All intervening institutions have
gained considerable experience during the implementation of the Project. Issues related to the
inadequacy of the institutional frarnework have been satisfactorily handled through adjustments
made in January 1997. The number of experienced contractors increased gradually over the last
two years, thanks to the conjunction of donor financial support and the use of a competitive
process. But smooth coordination among institutions and organizations has remained difficult to
achieve throughout project implementation.
10.   Beyond the implementation of the Project, two major challenges remain in the medium-
term:
• ensuring mine clearing financial sustainability (donors resources are expected to be
shrinking in the future and thus there is a need to identify a domestic source of funding);
and
* further strengthening the institutions and local mine clearing capacities, differentiating
clearly areas of responsibility (including separating planning and regulating functions
from commercial demining activities).
11.   The donors' community should consider further support to Bosnia and Herzegovina to
address those two challenges. Support could be provided in the following areas:
(i) improving data reliability: to reduce the threat due to the presence of mines and
decrease drastically the number of areas to be demined (many of the current "suspected"
areas are probably mine-free).
(ii) helping Governments to prioritize demining tasks based on well defined criteria
including economic and financial analysis centered on humanitarian and public safety
considerations.
(iii) strengthening the existing institutions in their well defined separate roles and helping
streamline their operating procedures and staffing.
(iv) ensuring mine clearing financial sustainability by fostering the role of the Entity
Governments as main providers/financiers of landmine clearing services. In parallel seek
systematic beneficiary contribution to mine clearing costs to sustain local "commercial"
4   Inexperienced staff, multiplicity of institutions at the State and Entity levels, excessive political interference
and overlapping responsibilities among more than thirteen institutions and organizations.



demining in areas where mine clearing is economically justified, and enlist military
personnel for demining areas where mine clearance is not fully justified economically.
Key Lessons Learned
12.   As the first project funded by the Bank in the sector, the ELCP has contributed to build
experience inside and outside the Bank. Six lessons can be drawn from the implementation of
the Project:
*  The Bank can have a comparative advantage in stand-alone demining projects that focus
on institution building and sustainable and commercially based demining activities in
well defined and economically productive areas.
* Projects should integrate more coordination and adequate division of tasks among
intervening institutions, especially with the U.N., which remains the major player in the
sector.
*  It is crucial to focus, in the immediate post-conflict period, on information collection and
mapping as a prerequisite to well planned priority mine clearing.
*  The Bank comparative advantage lies more on institution building and developing a
commercial demining capacity than on carrying out mine-clearing training or mine
awareness programs, for which others have more experienced.
*  Commercial approach to demining in priority areas has proved to be much more
productive than any other method usedfor this purpose. It remains however very costly
and should be reserved to highly productive areas.
*  As for any other project venture, clear technical specifications and close monitoring and
supervision arrangements are key to a proper implementation of mine-clearing
programs. Sample bidding documents are now available (and are used in Croatia and
Cambodia)



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY LANDMINES CLEARANCE PROJECT (CREDIT NO. 29050-BA)
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A.   Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
Statement of Project Objectives
13.   At the end of the hostilities in December 1995, the World Bank Group, in cooperation
with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Commission, and
United Nations agencies, and with special financing support from the Governments of the
Netherlands and the United States of America, initiated a program of cooperation with the
authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, designed to provide support to economic policy-making
and nation-building. The reconstruction program was designed to support rapid improvement in
the living conditions by creating economic means to address basic needs in food, shelter, water,
electricity, heating, health and education; revive industrial and agricultural production; and lay
the foundation for sustained development. The reconstruction program was presented to the
donor community during the Spring of 1996: it envisaged funding requirements of about US$5
billion over the following three to four years, among which US$65 million were targeted at
landmine clearing.
14.   At the time of appraisal the suspected number of landmines laid during the hostilities
ranged from 1.5 to 3 million5, and the total surface of areas potentially contaminated by mines
was estimated to add up to 5,000 square kms or 9% of the country's surface. Bosnia and
HJerzegovina had also been littered with unused bulk ammunition and unexploded ordnance
(UXOs). Landmines and UXOs (thereafter jointly referred to as mines) were expected to be
potentially found around confrontation lines and in all areas considered of strategic importance,
but information regarding the localization of mines was incomplete and not fully reliable.
15.   During the preparation of the reconstruction program, it was clearly felt that the presence
of mines could be a major impediment to allow a rapid access to the land and to productive
assets, thus delaying reconstruction activities and keeping displaced persons and refugees away
from their properties. Local institutions to manage mine clearing were not established and local
capacity was nonexistent. Because the presence of mines could have an impact on the
implementation pace of most reconstruction activities, a Mine Action Program was established in
order to clear mines in support of priority reconstruction, economic recovery, and the restoration
of essential public services.  The protection of vulnerable groups, until mines in their
communities could be cleared, was also an objective.
5  As per United Nations Mine Action Center (UNMAC) estimate as of 1996.



- 2 -
16.   The components of the Mine Action Program included: (i) developing and strengthening
institutions; (ii) collecting and disseminating information regarding mine localization; (iii)
developing local mine-clearing and monitoring capacity; and (iv) undertaking mine-clearing in
support of high priority activities under the reconstruction program and of community priorities.
The program was foreseen as a long-term one, with the components related to actual mine
clearing expected to last for years.
17.   The Emergency Landmines Clearance Project was designed as the first phase of the Mine
Action Program. As such, the objectives of the ELCP were to:
(i) establish the necessary institutions and functions to sustain the Mine Action Program;
(ii) protect vulnerable groups, by making more available information regarding mine
localization and carrying out mine awareness campaigns;
(iii) increase local mine-clearing capacity;
(iv) carry out high priority mine clearing.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
18.   The selection of Project objectives at the time of appraisal, although they were clear and
realistic, suffered from the lack of experience in handling mine clearing issues both on the
Borrower's and the Bank's sides. Targets were set based on assumptions, as for example cost of
mine clearance was unknown, and neither the Bank nor the Borrower had conducted minefield
surveys before. Procurement and supervision arrangements were to be sorted out, at a time
where competition was nonexistent (private contracting experience in mine clearance was only
marginally developed worldwide). In addition, the Project required strong coordination efforts
given the number of actors involved in mine clearing (about 13 under the Project) and the fact
that some of them were actihg according to diverging agendas.
B.    Achievement of Objectives
19.   The Project has been most successful in achieving its physical objectives and relatively
successful in achieving its institutional objectives. The Project was very efficient in surveying
and clearing minefields, both in terms of quantity (compared to both civilian and military
performance) and costs (compared to civilian mine clearing unit costs). Overall, a territory of
6.5 square kms has been surveyed/cleared under the Project (about 60% of the total surface
surveyed/cleared in Bosnia through 1996-1998) while the Bank project expenditure was only
30% of the total resources spent for demining in Bosnia and Herzegovina (about US$22 million).
20.   Mine awareness has been mainly conducted by organizations such as the U.N., I.C.R.C6.
and Non-Governmental Organizations (like U.N.I.C.E.F.). The Bank has contributed to those
efforts by administering a Canadian grant which funded mine awareness lectures for about 7,000
people countrywide.
6  International Committee of the Red Cross.



- 3 -
21.   On the institutional side, the Project has contributed to the establishment of a local
administration structure to manage mine-clearing activities. A United Nations Mine Action
Center (UNMAC) was first set up, to organize infonnation collection, provide technical expertise
and jump-start mine clearing activities. After two years, the UNMAC was transferred to the
local authorities, following U.N. principles: Mine Action Centers were created in each Entity and
a Demining Commission was established at the State level, under the auspices of the Council of
Ministers, to develop the demining policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
22.   The Project also assisted the development of local mine clearing capacity. There is now a
core of commercial demining companies that have been established (9 local mine clearing
companies have been created, and some 500 deminers have been accredited by the Entity Mine
Action Centers). Those firms are available for hire when conditions warrant. The average unit
price for clearing minefields decreased about 45% between the beginning and the end of the
project period. The average price for demining works is now DEM 3 per square meter, and the
local mine clearing capacity is now able to clear about 4 square kms of land per year7. The
development of the local contracting capacity has been fostered by (i) the participation of local
contractors in joint-ventures with international experienced companies, and (ii) training provided
to deminers by the Netherlands, the U.S. and United Nations. In addition, since June 1998,
S.F.O.R. has been building up local military mine clearing capacity, with the goal of having
military platoons capable of clearing minefields at humanitarian demining standards. The long-
term approach is likely to rely more and more on the Governments using the armies to keep the
cost of demining activities as low as possible.
23.   The Bank has been joining forces with the U.N. the donors and local institutions at all
stages of the Project cycle. The Project definitely benefited from this collaboration, as it
provided all together enough expertise to ensure the set-up of local institutions and emergency
demining works activities. The Bank has specifically contributed to:
(i) introduce a commercial approach to mine clearing;
(ii) set up and support project management processes (including task prioritization, task
preparation, supervision and monitoring); and
(iii) build a local contracting capacity and set up governing institutions in close
coordination with organizations such as the U.N.
24.   The Bank has been successful in making these contributions as it has extensive
experience and know-how in fostering the establishmnent of project implementation structures
and developing demining capacities.  This success has been widely recognized by the
international community, which entrusted to the Project additional funding for mine clearing in
Bosnia and Herzegovina (see paragraph 37). The Project has allowed mine clearing to go faster
and cheaper, and to focus on priority areas.
7  Equivalent to the surface cleared each year by foreign contractors at the beginning.



- 4 -
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
25.   The major factors which have affected the Project were: (i) the lack of available
experience on how to handle mine clearing activities at the time of Project preparation and the
lack of an adequate institutional framework; (ii) the lack of competitive market conditions for
demining services at the beginning of the implementation phase; and (iii) conflicting approaches
of the different actors involved in mine clearing.
Lack of experience and institutionalframework
26.   There was little knowledge available in the Bank with respect to mine-clearing activities.
The Project team experienced a steep learning curve, having to understand mine-clearing
technologies, handling of safety issues, and organizational structures8. In addition, existing
standard bidding documents had to be adapted to integrate the particularities of mine clearing in
Bosnia and Herzegovina.
27.   The institutional framework was deficient in 1996. At the level of the State, the Mine
Protection and Removal Agency (MPRA) was controlling the activities of both entity
implementation agencies, and this created tensions and inefficiencies. Furthermore, the MPRA
and the two entity agencies lacked technical and procurement capacities. Finally, there was a
lack of transparency in decision making, especially in the definitions of priority areas to be
cleared of mines at the early stage. This situation improved in 1997, following the retrofitting of
the Project institutional principles by the Bank. A tri-partite Demining Commission took over
MPRA's responsibilities to handle Bosnia and Herzegovina's demining policy. Nevertheless the
Project momentum remained lower than expected at the time of appraisal9.
Lack of competitive market conditions
28.   The implementation of the Project started in a policy and institutional vacuum. Indeed,
mine clearing is not a concern during peace periods and the structure in place to handle
explosives before the hostilities remains limited to few military and police units. Mine clearing
capacity grew during the hostilities. However, the demand was driven mainly by military needs,
which implied that: (i) mine clearing was done on an ad hoc basis, without any comprehensive
framework in place; and (ii) mine clearing was of a relatively low quality. At the end of the
hostilities, there was no policy, no structure and little capacity in place to ensure mine clearing
operations for civilian purposes.
29.   There were thus no private contractors capable of conducting mine clearing as a regular
business. The Project Implementation Units had limited experience in project management, and
foreign firms involved in mine clearing elsewhere were not used to participate to competitive
selection process. Manpower was recruited locally through local firms (given the technologies
8  As a result, more resources than originally planned were spent, especially during implementation, as additional
support to the Borrower had to be provided from the field.
9   The Project was suffering a high number of complaints from contractors, because of limited experience of
contract management by the Borrower and the need for the Bank to monitor closely Project implementation at
all its stages.



- 5 -
available so far, mine clearing is labor intensive). Those local firms were set up over the last two
years and lacked adequate management and joint-venture experience. These different elements,
and also the fact that contractors and sub-contractors had never been confronted to Bank
procurement rules, have led to a significant number of procurement issues, which resulted in
substantial delays in implementation particularly in 1998, because of interference of the
Demining Commission in the procurement process.
Lack of coordination between the institutions involved
30.   The Project suffered from a lack of coordination between the different institutions
involved in demining, each of them implementing its own agenda. There are clear indications
that the lack of coordination has had negative consequences on the pace (and thus the cost) of
implementation. Several different approaches were undertaken to address the urgent need for
demining works at the end of the hostilities. But because of the urgency to act, there was little
hindsight and two main implementation approaches were used:
(i) The support is provided through a donor-related intermediary (e.g. Non Governmental
Organizations or foreign aid government institutions), outside Government existing
structures, leaving all implementation and monitoring responsibilities in the hands of the
selected intermediary.
(ii) The second approach, adopted by the Bank, is to work through local Government
institutions, building their capacities and ensuring their full ownership and responsibility
of demining activities under the Project.
31.   The first approach was justified in the context of the immediate post-conflict period,
during which needs were high and widespread, notably to allow for a quick supply of equipment
necessary to carry out mine clearing activities. However, over the Project implementation
period, this approach should have been more rapidly phased out to involve more local
institutions to ensure the sustainability of demining activities in the long term.
D.    Project Sustainability
32.  The Project has been challenging and demanding. Experience that was gained through
the appraisal and implementation phases has already benefited other programs the Bank is
implementing in Croatia and Cambodia, and is available to other potential Bank programs.
Borrower's Commitment
33.   The Borrower's commitment to demining has been first evidenced by Bosnia and
Herzegovina signing on the Ottawa Treaty'0. Borrower's commitment to the Project, per se, took
some time to materialize when considering the difficulty in having Governments decide on lists
of sites to be cleared of mines, and their slowness in responding to procurement and institutional
issues reviewed by the Bank. Later, however, the Governments became more proactive in
10 The Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines
and on their Destruction, known also as the Ottawa Treaty (adopted by 122 government in 1997).



- 6 -
monitoring the activities of their Project Implementation Units, as well as addressing governance
issues posed by overlapping responsibilities between the Demining Commission and the Project
Implementation Units"1.
Policy and Institutions Sustainability
34.   The international community initially fostered the development of the sector. Over the
last two years, the involvement of the Governments in mine clearing has been increasing
(following the creation of the national Demining Commission in January 1997, and the hand-
over of the United Nations Mine Action Center structures to the local authorities in January
1998). However, management of mine clearing activities has remained essentially supported and
supervised by international organizations.
Financial sustainability
35.   The structure established under the Project to manage identification and implementation
of mine clearing activities has proven efficient, and is now used by other institutions and donors.
Funding for demining will constitute the main impediment to follow-up activities. Governments
should gradually introduce their share of funding (by financing, to increasing extent,
administration and management costs and demining works). Cost recovery and cost sharing
arrangements should be sought when appropriate with local authorities and beneficiaries. Bosnia
and Herzegovina authorities have to establish financing mechanisms that do not rely on donor
contributions.
E.    Bank Performance
36.   Bank's performance has been satisfactory, despite the fact that three different team
leaders have handled the Project within a three-year period. Project preparation has been
adequate, taking into account the time constraint, political circumstances, and the lack of
knowledge on how to handle mine-clearing issues both within and outside the Bank. Judging
from the correspondence in the files, the Bank team was very proactive and responsive during
Project implementation. The team members have coordinated closely with their colleagues in
the Bank and with their counterparts in the field the means to optimize Project efficiency. This
dialogue allowed adapting the arrangements proposed under the institutional side of the Project
to changing situation. The dialogue also allowed improving the procurement and supervision of
demining works12. The Borrower has acknowledged the satisfactory performance of the Bank,
taking into account its lack of experience in demining. However, the Borrower has pointed out
that a higher level of performance could have been achieved if procurement could have been
streamlined including simplified bidding documentation and Bank review processes.
The Bank insisted, over the last year of Project implementation, on the need for a strict separation between the
mandate of the Project Implementation Units (responsible for the implementation of the works and related
activities) and the Demining Commission (responsible for the overall definition, implementation and
monitoring of the demining policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina).
12  By ensuring that procurement rules were understood and applied in an area where direct contracting had been
so far the general rule, and where output and productivity measures had never been analyzed, and by amending
the technical clauses of the contracts when conditions warranted it.



-7 -
37.   The Project, contributed significantly to the development of the mine-clearing industry in
Bosnia and Herzegovina (see paragraphs 19-20 above). The Project built up the Bank's
knowledge in this field, and fostered discussions within the Bank on the position it should adopt
vis-a-vis this new activity. It is estimated that the main principles learned and the analytical
framework established through this Project can be applied in most situations where Bank
projects encounter mine-related issues. Finally, the Bank succeeded in leveraging its own
resources three times (one of the highest leverage ratio achieved in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
taking into account only donors' resources administered by the Bank), which indicates the level
of confidence of the international comnmunity in the Bank's approach to mine clearing.
F.    Borrower Performance
38.   Despite difficult circumstances, the Borrower succeeded in developing a genuine
institutional framework and a mine clearing capacity. Overall, the Project Implementation Units
have been performing reasonably well, both in terms of project management and reporting
requirements, including audits, which have been unqualified until now (the 1998 audit has not
been released yet). However, had the Governments been more committed to monitoring the
implementation of the Project, especially since the beginning of the implementation phase, the
implementation efficiency could have been higher as:
(i) there have been a significant number of procurement issues most of which could have
been avoided if the PIUs' activities had been more closely monitored; and
(ii) the institutional structure in place during the first half of the Project implementation
period should have been adjusted earlier (see paragraph 27 above).
39.   Borrower performance has been improving during Project implementation, following
decentralization of the implementation capacity and clarification of the Demining Commission's
role"3.
G.   Assessment of Outcome
40.   Both physical implementation and capacity building outcomes are satisfactory. The
Project was completed according to schedule and fulfilled the objectives as defined in the PAD.
The outcomes of the institutional building component are also satisfactory with the establishment
of a fumctioning institutional framework, and the development of a civilian mine clearing
capacity. However, it is recommended that in the future local authorities focus on: (i) improving
decision making procedure to increase transparency and promote efficiency and accountability;
and (ii) pursuing the promotion of mine-clearing activities in accordance with Bosnia and
Herzegovina's commitment to the Ottawa Treaty.
H.    Future Operations
3  Mainly (i) prioritization of nmine clearing activities, (ii) monitoring mine clearing activities and technical
standards, and (iii) promotion of demining program for Bosnia and Herzegovina.



- 8 -
41.   The challenge under the Project was to define a workable approach in a sector where
there was little experience, and to produce rapid results, i.e. the clearance of strategic sites
crucial to the rehabilitation of infrastructure, economic recovery and return of refugees. Today's
priorities lie in consolidating the results achieved so far and ensuring their sustainability over the
medium-term-with limited resources-taking into account other organizations' activities. There
are two major challenges in the medium-term:
*  ensuring the financial sustainability of mine clearing activities. Donors' resources will be
shrinking in the near future and there is an urgent need to find longer-term resources. Mine
clearing, whenever possible, should be paid for, at least partially, by the communities which
benefit from mine clearance; and
*  strengthening the institutions and local mine clearing capacities, differentiating clearly areas
of responsibility including separating planning and regulating functions from commercial
demining activities.
42.   These two challenges could be addressed through follow-up activities based on the
principles exposed below.
43.   Demining activities need to be accelerated in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The current
situation, where only about 5 to 6 square kms are cleared each year, whereas about 5,000 square
kms are still suspected to be contaminated raises a major concern. Future programs should
address this issue by (i) better mapping to better delirnit the areas suspected to be contaminated
and bring to lower and accurate proportions the areas to be cleared, and (ii) drastically increasing
the surface to be cleared each year. The following items deserve priority attention:
*  improving data reliability: Surveys (usually referred to as level-one surveys) should be
systematically conducted countrywide in order to draw a countrywide map of areas suspected
to contain mines, and physically mark the areas. This would allow for a sharp decrease in
the quantity of sites suspected to be mined. Coordination with the U.N. in this area will be
key in order to achieve this objective.
*  prioritizing the list of sites to be demined under the responsibility of the Entities
Governments. Economic benefits that are expected from cleared areas should confirm the
choice of sites to be demined. All the different programs to be implemented in the future
should be in accordance with clearly set criteria and list of priorities.
*  helping existing institutions to become more efficient: The current situation is not fully
satisfactory because of too many and over-staffed structures intervening in demining. Also
the operating and monitoring capacities of the Project Implementation Units should be
strengthened.
*  ensuring mine clearing financial sustainability: by fostering the role of the Entity
Governments as main providers/financiers of landmine clearing services.   Military



- 9 -
personnel"4 should be tasked to clear areas where mine clearance is not fully justified
economically but contributes to peace consolidation, inter-entities reconciliation and
improves the environment (such as for the IEBL, forests and arable land). In parallel,
systematic beneficiary contribution to mine clearing costs should be seek where mine
clearing is economically justified.
I.     Key Lessons Learned
44.   The ELCP was the first demining Project ever funded by the Bank. In that regard it has
contributed to build experience within the Bank as well as to develop a different approach to
mine clearing, approach which has been well received by the demining community at large. Six
lessons can be drawn from the implementation of the Project:
* The Bank can have a comparative advantage in stand-alone demining Projects that focus on
institution building and sustainable and commercially based demining activities in well
defined and economically productive areas.
- Coordination and adequate division of tasks among intervening institutions is crucial. The
U.N. as the major player in the sector is responsible to set up technical standards, provide
expert opinions, and establish institutions. Other players in the sector should coordinate, and
seek complementary of programs related to surveying and/or clearing of minefields.
* It is crucial to focus, in the immediate post-conflict period, on information collection and
dissemination.   This is key for designing programs of actions, defining priorities, and
deciding on commercial versus non-commercial methods of demining.
* The Bank comparative advantage lies more on institution building and developing a
commercial demining capacity than on carrying out mine-clearing training or mine
awareness programs, better dispensed by others multilateral institutions such as the U.N. or
I.C.R.C., or by specialized bilateral agencies.
* Commercial approach to demining in priority areas has proved to be much more productive
than any other method usedfor this purpose. It remains however very costly and should be
reserved to highly productive areas.
* As for any other project venture, appropriate bidding documentation, well spelled-out
technical specifications, and close monitoring and supervision arrangements are key to a
proper implementation of mine-clearing programs. Sample bidding documents are now
available (and are used in Croatia and Cambodia).
14  Entity armies are one of the best sources of information available with respect to the localization of rninefields.
In addition, at the end of hostilities, they constitute a large reservoir of relatively non-expensive and partly
under-employed labor force. Finally, in the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina, S.F.O.R. has been carrying out
the training of about 400 soldiers from the Entity armies, which constitutes the core military mine clearing
capacity. Military personnel should supplement commercial demining capacity.



-10-
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:     Summary of Assessment
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6A:    Project Costs
Table 6B:    Project Financing
Table 7:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 9:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 10:    Bank Resources: Missions



- 11 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial        Negible         Not acable
Macro Policies                       ]              E                 l                /
Sector Policies                     /              i                 :                 =
Financial Objectives                 ]               ]               :                 L
Institutional Development            El             /                E 
Physical Objectives                 /              i                 Cl               I
Poverty Reduction                   E               E                Cl                V
Gender Issues                       a               E                E                  /
Other Social Objectives                             VE
Environmental Objectives            V               n                E                 o
Public Sector Management              l             V               I                 E
Private Sector Development          E               /                E                 E
Other (specify)                     El              E                E                 V
(Continued)



- 12 -
B. Project Sustainability            Likely                   Unlikely                  Uncertain
(/)                      (V)                        (/)
a           O                        ~~/
IHighly
C. Bank Performance                 Satisfactory             Satisfactory               Deficient
(v')                    (/)                        (/)
Identification                                             EX
Preparation Assistance                                                                   l t  g
Appraisal                            ]                      /                         I
Supervision                        n
D. Borrower Performance             Satisfactory             Satisfactory               Deficient
(v")                    (V)                        (V)
Preparation                         E                                                  El
Implementation                     [                        /
Covenant Compliance                 E                        V                         E
Operation (if applicable)
HigyHy
E. Assessment of Outcome            Satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
El    O                         El                El



- 13 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title          Purpose      Year of approval          Status
Preceding operations
1. n.a.
Following operations
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned        Date Actual!
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  1/9/96
Preparation                               n.a.
Appraisal                                 3/4/96
Negotiations                              5/96
Letter of Development/Sector Policy (if   n.a.              n.a.
applicable)
Board Presentation                        6/96              7/30/96
Signing                                   n.a.              7/31/96
Effectiveness                             7/96              9/5/96
First Tranche Release (if applicable)     n.a.              n.a.
Midterm review (if applicable)            6/30/97           n.a.
Second (and Third) Tranche Release (if    n.a.              n.a.
applicable)
Project Completion                        6/30/98           6/30/98
Loan Closing                              12/31/98          12/31/98



- 14-
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY97   FY98    FY99  FY00
Appraisal estimate      3,375   4,125
Actual                  1,086   6,166
Actual as % of estimate   32.1%   149.5%
Date of final                  7/15/98
disbursement
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation/Operation
Estimated                  Actual
1. Identification of           20,000                    17,000
mine fields (number of mine
fields)
2. Training of mine-            600                       500
clearers (number of trainees)
3. Surface cleared (m2)       6,600,000                 6,000,000
4. Setting up local             300                       360
comrmercial mine clearing
capacity (number ofjobs
created)
Table 6A: Project Costs (US$ million, including contingencies)
Appraisal estimate       Actual/latest estimates
Item                          Local  Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign  Total
costs   costs              costs   costs
1. Mine clearing and QA       n.a.    n.a.    45.9       21.0    14.0    47.0
2. Local capacity building     n.a.    n.a.    9.7        1.2     4.8     6.0
. Mine awareness               n.a.    n.a.    2.5        2.0     0.5     2.5
4. Support to MAC HQ           n.a.    n.a.    2.3        0.8     1.2     4.5
5. Support to MAC regional     n.a.    n.a.    6.6        2.0     3.0     7.0
offices
Total                          n.a.    n.a.    67.0      27.0    23.5    67.0



- 15 -
Table 6B: Project Financing (US$ million)
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimates
Item                              Local  Foreign   Total        Local  Foreign   Total
costs    costs                costs    costs
IDA 5                              n.a.     n.a.     7.5         4.5       3.0      7.5
United Nations                     n.a.     n.a.     0.5         6.0       9.0      15.0
European Union                     n.a.     n.a.     16.6        2.0       1.5      3.5
Govermment of the United States    n.a.     n.a.     8.5         5.0       3.5      8.5
Government of Japan                n.a.     n.a.     1.3         0.0       0.0      0.0
Government of Italy                n.a.     n.a.     4.0         2.5       1.5      4.0
Government of Canada               n.a.     n.a.     n.a.        0.6       0.1      0.7
Govermnent of Belgium              n.a.     n.a.     n.a.        0.1       0.6      0.7
Governnent of the Netherlands      n.a      n.a.     n.a.         1.8      1.3      3.1
Other Donors 16                    n.a.     n.a.     11.3        4.5       3.0      7.5
Unfunded needs                     n.a.     n.a.     17.3        10.0      6.5      16.5
Total                              n.a.     n.a.     67.0        37.0     30.0     67.0
15  Allocation of IDA funds among components not final; does not include US$5 million funded under
transportation and energy projects.
16  Includes contributions from the Governments of Belgium, Denmark, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, and
estimated contributions from donors to mine awareness programs.



- 16 -
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Emergency Landmines Clearance Project
Covenant Present   Original    Revised        Description of Covenant          Comments
Agreement    Section      Type    Status  Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date       Date
Credit      3.04         5         C                               The Borrower shall maintain    The MPRA has been
MPRA with powers, functions, and dissolved and replaced by
responsibilities to carry out the    the Demining Commission
Project.                      in 1997.
3.05         5         C                               The Borrower shall ensure that and
shall cause the Entities to ensure
that all Mine clearance activities
are carried out and all Mines
cleared under the Project are
promptly destroyed in accordance
with safety standards and
guidelines of the United Nations
4.01 (a)     I         C                               The Borrower to maintain records
and accounts
4.01 (b)     I         CP                              The Borrower to have records and  Unqualified audits have
accounts, including the Special    been received so far. The
Accounts, for each fiscal year  1998 audits are under
audited                       preparation and due by
6/30/99.
Schedule 5,   5        C                               The Federation and Republika  Permanent Bank
para. 3 (b)                                            Srpska shall each prepare and  communication and
furnish to the Association, on or    correspondences with the
about June 30, 1997, a report  PIUs on the project and the
integrating the monitoring and  different adjustments made
evaluation activities performed,    during project
and setting out the measures  implementation justified
recommended to ensure the     considering this covenant
efficient carrying out of the Project as complied with.
and the achievement of the
objectives thereof during the
period following such date
Schedule 5,   5        C                               The Federation and Republika  See above.
para 3 (c)                                             Srpska shall each review with the
Association by July31, 1997, the
report referred to in the previous
covenant and shall take all
measures required to ensure the
efficient completion of the project
and the achievement of the project
objectives
Covenant types:                                                                            Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                                8. = Indigenous people                 C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD  complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                    10. = Project implementation not covered    CP  complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds             by categories 1-9                   NC  not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding                            11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing agency  other resource allocation
6. = Environmental covenants                        12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
7. = Involuntary resettlement                          regulatory/institutional action
13. = Other



- 17-
Table 8: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title       Describe and comment on lack of compliance
OP Memo on demining Operational    This memorandum sets out guidelines for staff in considering requests
Guidelines for Financing Land Mine   from countries to finance land mine clearance. The guidelines are
Clearance dated 02/07/97         based on the following criteria:
(i) eligibility: to be eligible for Bank financing, land mine clearance
must be an integral part of a development project or a prelude to a
future development project or program to be adopted by the borrower;
(ii) economic justification;
(iii) implementation responsibility: Land mine clearance in Bank-
financed projects must be carried out under the responsibility of civilian
authorities. However, this requirement does not preclude collaboration
with the military (e.g., on maps, surveys, removal of mines) and the
employment of former military personnel;
(iv) procurement: the Procurement Policy Adviser, OPRPR, must clear
All procurement and contracting arrangements.
(i') conditionality: The legal agreements for any project involving land
mine clearance include a covenant under which the government
undertakes not to lay new land mines anywhere in the country.
The Project complied with the memorandum.
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                 Revised                    Actual
Stage of project cycle  Weeks    US$        Weeks        US$            Weeks       US$
Preparation to Appraisal    -        -           10         33              6.3       17.3
A ppraisal                  -         -         35         80.4             76        178.9
Negotiations through Board  -        -          8.8        20.1            12.1       26.6
approval
Supervision               121.5    249.3        132        239.1           241.3      505.4
Completion                  6       10.4         8          11.5            4.9        6.3
Total              127.5    259.7       193.8      384.1           340.6      734.5
(Bank budget)             127.5    259.7       189.8       368.1           222.8       458
(Consultants Trust Funds)   -        -           4          16             117.8      276.5



- 18-
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating'     Types of
Stage of project cycle  Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.    Developm. Problems3
Year   Persons  Field                       status      objectives
Through Appraisal          12/95 to    2      16         E, A
1/96
Appraisal through Board    1/96 to    8       50    E, A, Federation
approval                    7/96
Supervision I               9/96      5       11        E, F, A           S            S          M, A
Supervision II              2/97      2       12           E             U             S          M, A
Supervision III             4/97       1      10       Federation        U             S          M, A
Supervision IV              6/97      2       11           E              S            S
Supervision V               10/97     1       11           E              S            S
Supervision VI              5/98       1      9            E              S            S            P
Supervision VII             1/99      2       15           P              S            S          M, P
Completion                  5/99      2        5           E
Total                         26      150
1 - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
F: Financial Specialist            HS: Highly Satisfactory          M: Project Management
E: Mine Clearing Expert            S: Satisfactory                  P: Procurement
A: Project Advisor                 U: Unsatisfactory                A: Administrative Problems
P: Procurement Specialist



-19 -                          APPENDIX A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY LANDMINES CLEARANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. - 2905-BOS))
MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    A mission consisting of Messrs. Jacques Bure and Aymeric-Albin Meyer visited
Bosnia and Herzegovina from May 16-21, 1999, to gather necessary infornation to
prepare the Implementation Completion Report for the Emergency Landmines Clearance
Project (ELCP). The mission met with officials at the level of the State of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, the Federation, and Republika Srpska, as well as with representatives of the
main actors on the mine clearing scene in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The mission wants to
express its gratitude for the fruitful discussions held and courtesies extended.
2.    Project Implementation Status. Demining activities under the Project have been
financed through five different sources: an IDA Credit (US$7.5 million), and four Trust
Funds: (Italian Grant /US$4 million; Dutch Grant IUS$3 million; US Grant /US$2.9
million; and Canadian Grant /US$0.7 million). As can seen from the table below, most
of the activities have been completed. All remaining activities are expected to be
completed by September 30, 1999.
Source        Purpose   Amount  Committed  Disbursed  Remarks
(US$ M)
IDA           Works    7.5        100%       100%      Closed, December 98
Italian Grant    Works    4.0     100%       100%      Closed, December 98
Dutch Grant    Works    3.0       100%       35%       Closing date extended till
end of July 99
US Grant      Works    2.9        95%        80%       Closing date extended till
end of August, 99
Canadian Grant Mine     0.7       70%        36%       Closing date extended till
awareness                                end September 99
3.    Under the Canadian Grant, mine awareness activities have been contracted in
Republika Srpska and bid evaluation is being processed in the Federation. At this stage,
activities are expected to be completed before the grant closing date. Under the Dutch
grant, activities have been stopped last fall in the Federation following a contract
termination under the contract FED CWO15/98. Following the Bank's request for
clarification of the reasons for termination and for an assessment of the role of the
different institutions in the contracting process, the Government of the Federation of
Bosnia and Herzegovina has proposed recently to restart activities under the contract
FED CWO15/98. Negotiations are still ongoing.
4.    Credit and trustfunds closing. Both the Bank's Credit and the Italian Grant have
been closed since December 31, 1998. The mission emphasized that both Project



-20-                      APPENDIX A
Implementation Units should submit their last withdrawal applications and return the
unused Special Account funds to the Credit and Grant accounts, if any remain.
5.    Project impact. Beyond the successful results achieved in terms of actual mine
clearing (in terms of efficiency, surface cleared, and drastic reduction of the cost for
demining works measured relatively to the performance of other actors involved on the
mine clearing scene), the main project impact has been the set up of a structure able to
handle commercial mine clearing both in the Federation and in Republika Srpska. The
structure in place is now able to: (i) set up priority lists, handle contract procurement,
implementation and monitoring; (ii) manage fund raising activities; and (iii) provide
adequate technical expertise and policy recommendations. The structure is now used by
new contributors to implement donations which are not administered by the Bank,
donations such as those channeled through the International Trust Fund (ITF). This
transfer demonstrates the sustainability of the arrangements under the project. It is
estimated that the structure in place can continue to fully play its role in the years to come
provided that its operating costs be covered (whether through the contribution of the
donors as part of their projects or from local resources, depending on further commitment
from the local authorities toward future activities).
6.    Operational Plan. The mission discussed activities required in the future, beyond
Credit closing, to assess and ensure the sustainability of the project operational phase.
Given the emergency nature of the project and the very nature of mine clearing, a formal
Operational Plan will not be required to ensure the sustainability of the physical activities
undertaken under the project. On the institutional side, the main activities required
beyond the project closing date will be to ensure that:
-  the institutional set up now in place: (i) be adapted to achieve optimum efficiency;
and (ii) be gradually and eventually fully taken over by the Governments; and
*  while donor resources to support mine clearing phase out, local contribution to mine
clearing efforts increases with the aim to ensure that the commitment of Bosnia and
Herzegovina to the Ottawa Treaty be honored.
7.    These activities are beyond the scope of an operational plan and should be tackled
through assistance focusing on institutional strengthening and sustainability, aiming at
fully handing over the management of mine clearing issues to the Governments. This
would provide an adequate follow up on the emergency phase of the landmine clearance
program, which aimed principally at responding to emergency reconstruction needs.
8.    Final Evaluation Report. As the input of the Borrower in the ICR, the National
Demining Commission has prepared its Final Evaluation Report which the mission has
discussed with the Commission. It was agreed that the Commission will provide a
revised version of their report by June 5, 1999.



- 21 -
APPENDIX B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETTON REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVTNA
EMERGENCY LANDMINES CLEARANCE PROJECT
Commission for Demining
Borrowers Final Evaluation Report
1



- 22 -
Evaluation Summary
The Comnission has prepared this cvaluation in accordance with the belief ihat progress can o-nly be
achieved through a continual process of constructivc critical analysis and adjustment in line with lessons
IcamL It is hoped that the report reflects this belief as well as highlighting the indisputabic successes of
thc programne.
Iatroduction
1     The programc was cstablished in the very carly days of demining in Bosnia and Herzegovina at
a time when many agencies, national and internaTional, were still attempting to defime how, with whom,
when and where a mine action programme would be initiated and how it would be financed. In this
atsmophere of many questions and few sound answcrs several options evolved but, after two years.. a
clear policy and structure has now been developed.
2     The iritial Local point envisaged for the establishment of a national denmining capacity was the
United NTations, but in practice the majority of operational activities revolved around the con  butio of
the US Dcpartment of State and the World Banl, through the Project Implementation Units (PIU) in the
Federation anid RS.
Assessment of Project Objectives
3     Tne cornponcnts of the World Bank project were to include: strengthening and developing of the
instituLions, collection and dissernnation of information regard'ng suspect and mincd locations,
developing the local mine clcarance and monitoring capacity and undertaking mine clearance in support
of high priority activities. The programme was foreseen as long-terr, lastiag for a number of ycars.
4      The Emcrgency Landmine Clearance Project was designed as the Eirst phase, with four primary
objectives: to set up the necessary institLtions and functions to sus-3in a Mine Action Programnne, the
protection oF vulnerable groups by making available- information regarding minefield locations. In
addition carrying out minc awamrness campaigns, increasing the local mine clearance capacity by carrying
out training programmes and carrying out high priority clearance tasks.
S     There is evidence to show that the PIO (World Bank) projc;t met haLf of these aims, cxctuding
the training programmes and min  awareness related activities. Neither of these two aims became
integraTed with the elements of the project, which concentrated an instituional support and clearance
activities. Utilisation of a portion of the Belgian funding enabled the PIU Monitor training to be designed
and undertaken in country. The mine awarertcss pro_=ammc in the RS is about to be inipletiiented arid lhe
award of Cue mine awareness programmc in the Federation is inminenL
Implemcntation Experience and Results
6     The establishment of the Project Implementation Units (PIUs) has greaLly increased the in-
country knowledge of the requiremnent for commercial contr"cts, the need for competitivc bidding and the
procedures esscntial for ensuring that bidding, contract award and implementationi are conducted in a
professional and business-like manner.
7     Thn results of the contracts so far undertaken by the PITJs in both the Federation and the
Republika Srpska have without doubt produced the most impressive results within Bosnia and
Herzcgovina, and their implementation has clearly set a new dimension in dcmiing. The basis for all
contracts was intended to be fair compctition, safety, quality, producLivity and cost effectiveness.
8     Two years of results conhiim that the productivity and cost effectiveness of the PrU (World Bank)
contacts has been far in excess of othcr organisations and structures in counry and this has provided the
evidence ror challenging the traditional vicws and methods of work of other organisations. In addition
the input of the Quality Assuance and Control monitors has set new standards for safety and quality,
enhancing the overall effectiveness of opcrations. To this end the POT (World Bank) project has been a
resounding success.
2



- 23 -
Summary Findings, 'rture Operations and Key Lessons Learnt
9     Based on reliable survey and clearance data the PIUs have. independently and collectively, becn
the most effective organisation in county. Their combined eflbrts to develop and incase the experience
and knowledge of all national staZ  although not part of the original aims, has resulted in increased
efricicncy and a measurable improvement in the overall programme safety record in mcent months.
10    Although future World Bgnk sponsored fimdmg has not yet been confumed4 the futurc of the
PIJs is now encompassed within t'he implementation of the lntemational (Slovenin) Trust FLmd,
utilising similar rules and procodures.
II    Tha' twajor lesso-a. learza have bee, the need to qutkly establish a national capacity, supported by
the national government and a formal legal strucure, for the management of all mine action. To clearly
identify the programmc requircients, conduct the nccessay sclection and training and then guide the
structure in its initial months of operation as it gains expence. However, it was often colt tt the
World Bank documentation was too corrplex and ducisious took a considerable time.
12    Finally, it is considered essential in any future programrnc to ensure that outside influences, other
agcncies and thcir diflering agendas do not detract from the stated aims and objectives of the World Bank
intervcndon. The World Bank should demonstrate tcir tust and support for the organisation they have
helpcd to cstablish and provide additional support and guidance where it is deemed necessary.  The
programtre hbg achioved exceptional results bu a few factors/personalities have impeded progress and
caused concerns that could have been avoided.
3



- 24 -
Borrowers Final Evaluation Report
Introduction
13    In 1996, as the World Bank attempted to implement its initial project for demining support, it is
not surprising that it faced a numbcr of challenges- In a post-conflict situation few organisations, national
or international, were working in a co-ordinatcd manmer and there were many conflicting agendas. It was
therefore to bc expected that the propumme would divergc from its originl design. However, despite this
divergence and the problems encountcred, if we look at the ovcrall picture, the PIU (World Bank) project
has nol only been highly succssful but it has set the tone for curr-ni and future mine action in Bosnia and
Ilerzegovina. Indeed ihe impact of this projcct could wcEll be felt in many other countbies in wTms of the
leveloping awareness of productivity and cost effectiveness.
14    Over the last ten years demiining world-wide has mainly been addressed by non comrercial
tcams and, cvcn where a commercial response has occurred, rarely has that response been addressed so
progressively as Ui Bosnia and Ilerzcgovina. Statistics have shown that the PIU's commercial hias and
emphasis on valuc for moncy hasl been tiie catalyst that has allowed dernining to bc viewed not solely as
an ad hoc humanitarian intervention but also as an urgent rcquir=emnt to addre.s a serious buianitarian
issue in: a professional and business-lilce manner.
15     The Commission and the PIU Directois wish to emphasise that the programme has` without
doubt, had a major impact on all mine action within Bosnia and I leazegovina. In order to learn lessons for
any similar future intervention this rcport will not only address the good points but will aJso address somo
aspects of the programme wlhich have limited or diminished the overall impact.
16    The continual pursuit of fimprovement based on contractual and field experience has meant that,
as each conrlacl has been completed, standards of quality, safety and cosr-effectiveness have risen. As
this programme reaches its final stage that expericrce has bean transferred to address the new mine action
demands of the hinerational (Slovenian) 1rust Fund (ITI$). This fund, established in 1998. is based on
-the Anc rican contribution of up to $28 million ovcr two years. which will become available as matching
fuids arc attracted from other donors. The fund is to be utilised for mine action, includinig survey, mine
cleararce and mine victim assistanrc. The first of the ITP contracts have been awarded, utilising Worlcd
Bank- contractual procedures as the basis for all documenuttion.
Assessment of Project Objectives
17    Thie World Bank's concept of designing, implementing and supportinlg a self-sustaining
organisaLion that would be able to award and review its own contracts was considered to be c.xcellent.
The use of eunimercial cormpanies rathcr than non-profit making organisations was criticised by some
agcncies, including the United Nations. Howcver, the results have clearly illustrated that the commercial
output has far exceeded that of the UN and NGOs and the developmrent of thc local commercial capacity
has achieved the initial airns of thc World Bank.
18     Once thc project was initiated and demining contracts were undr=way the World F3ank appeared
to iosc momentum and directioni regarding the rcmaining aims, juLst when it was in a very commanding
position and where it wculd haave been more crcative and enhanced further development. This is
partcularly ruzlevant in the area of minc awareness which will be addressed elsewhere in this document
Design
19    Tbe initial design was established during a difficult period and at the same time as the IJnited
Nabons Minc Action Centre was atermpting to consolidate its position. The UTN did not totally agrcc with
the basic premise of World Bank intcrvention and wi.Ahed to 'control' aspects of the programme, however
The World Bamik supported a more traditiona] government style support system.
20     As the structure developed and despite the excellent results, the World Bank's original concept
failed to adapt and capitalise cm the changing sitantion. In fact, the Word Bank appeared to Focus on
issues wbich had little impact on the programme, causing urmecessary friction and disruptitn hetweei the
4



- 25 -
Federation PIU and the Task Manager. This may well have tempered the Bank's fature plans for
demining.
Implementation asnd operational experience
21    The structure, rules and procedures were based on standard World Bankl documentation which aT
times seemed to be unnecessarily complicated for this situation and required the intervention and
interpretation of several World Bank and Technical Advisors to explain aTtd develop the Mechanism of
the various procedural clmenLs.
22    It became obvious that the World Bank strategy and implementation policy had several hiissine
ingredients. The programme was only able to function to its full effect with the approval of the
Commission for Demnining to utilise the US State Department donated equipment and the support of the
Technical Advisors provided by the Bclgian donation. This co-operation between the US State
Dcpartmcnt, the Bclgian govcr=rmcnt and the World Bank clearly enhanced the initial concept of the
ELCP. As the initial contract was implemented it became obvious that although the procedures were
clearly understood by national staff, implementation was often delayed by the slow reaction of the World
Bank. Indeed there seemed to be a lack of urgency, with little appreciation of the need to address issucs
promptly and cffectivcly in order Lo facilitate operational rcquiremnents and environmental limitations.
23    With the support of the Belgian donation and Connamission agreement three Technical Advisors-
(TAs) were assigned to assist ltc PIUs, onc for the RS and two for the .Fcdeation. The views of the PlUs
differ with regard to the effectiveness of this supporL On the one hand the Federation PIIJ believes that
the support provided limited assistance and then only initially, subsequentJy tfch TA tended to bcaome
involved with problerns rather than problem solving. It is also bclicvcd that thc TA continued to address
issues that had becn resolved and this resulted in further attacks on PIU personnel which caused
fstuations and un-necessary work at ministerial level.
24    On ihc other hand, the RS PIU considered thaL their TA support concentmted on addressing
problems and emphasises that the outcome was a co-ordinated and consolidated team effort This is
evident if one looks at the manner in which the R}S PT1J conducted its work and the excellent results thAt
were achieved The RS PTEJ considered ftat they had few conflicts with the World Bak tlhat were not
.addressej quickly and positivcly.
25    Training of the national staff was considered by all to be an absolute necessity but, with the
exception of onc coursc atc=n&d by only a very few staf& no taining was instigated by the World Bank.
Monitor and supervisor level uaining was designed by the national staff with TA assistance, fundcd by
the Belgian government with World Bank agreement, and implcmcnted with excellent results. lIdeed the
basic courses stipulated by the PlU have now become the basis for the BiH and Entity MACs courses.
Evaluation of the Borrower's Performance during Evolution and Tmplemnentation.
26    The PlUs have gained both contractual and field experience over the last two ycars and with
some tamining by the World Bank; and training supported by the Belgian govemment, are now confident
that they can operate without additional technical assistanAe. The PllUs however recognise that since the
initial concept, the mire action structure and method of funding have changed considerably..znd further
changes are likely as political and structural changes evolve.
27    Withm this constantly developing environment lessons must be learnt based on the requirement to
have suitable staff meet the necd to support the various elements of a mine action programme, ansure that
contracts are prepared, selected and awarded correctly and then implemented and monitored. At the
outset this programme did not addresz these needs -in aufticient detil-and, without the- co operaton
between the Commission, the US State Department, the Belgian government and the World Bank the
programrne would have struggled to attain its present level of competence. As it is the additional support
complemented the programme and the mcreased benefits have been an imrovement in safety and qualiy
and a greater technical undersnding by management and monitors.
28    The most effective aspect of the programm  has bcen the promotion of cost cffcctivcncss, for the
combined effect of the Tederation and Republila Srpska PIU programes has clearly illustrated to anl
5



26 -
othur pardcipatng organisations that producivity and cost effeciveness combined wilh safety and
quality, provide donors with the requisitc value for money. This has becn, without doubt, the major
impact of the prol7amme and yct it seems to have rze=eived limited exposure and has not been
aggressively marketed, thereby losing the impetus that the project had initiated.
29    It is interesting to reflect that both oTiginal PIU Directors foresaw that the price would continue to
fall as the 'industry' of derrinin,g developed in Bosnia and 1Iermegovina. T-ldced the latest contracts
funded through Ihe Slovenian Trust Fund, based on PIU procedures record a price of less than DEM 3.00
per square mcre, th is could also be rcflccted in thc award of the 1.S contracts. This not only illustrates the
development of the World Bauk concept, but also the continuing developnient of the PTUs contractual
cxperence.
30    There have been considerable difficulLies in addrCessing data accurately, but in general terms the
following table, covering 1 997-98 only, gives as accurate an impression as possible. The data is based on
the P1U figures (which are accuratc and conftimed) ather than data froom the BIr MAC (where some
differences havc yet to be reconciled).
Clearance and Survcy Data in Bosnia and JIcrzegovina for 1997 and 1998
Ser °r- sation                            AT/A? MTnes    cost per sct.m   Remarks
1     PIUFcderation 1997        1.275,356           1,558     DDEM 8,81     DEMI 1,248,000
PTURS 1997             _ 1,867,204           2,833      DEM 3.55      DF.M  5.257,680
Total                    3,142,560           4,391      DEM 5.25
PTI Federation i998j     1,802972            2,102      DEM 6,25    DiEMI 1,282,684
PHT RS 1998         1    1214,194             1,716     DEM2.70    DOEM 3,284,000
Tir:al         _3,17,160                _    3,818      DEM 4.82   __.
_____ Grand Total      _6,159,728                   8,209    DEM 5.039  A 2 Yr Periiod
Sert  5r sation            sq.m           AuT/AP Mincs  C?ost Tcz sQ.n   Remarks
1  Non Pll work 1997       *3.731,567          *2,541    Not L'nown    .     .    _-
2LNon PIT vorlk 1998        1,880,142            1,651    Not Know_l
Gra:md Total           **5,611,709         **4,192    Not Xnown  A 2 Yr Period
It is cxpecred tha.t these figurcs will be reduced by approximately 30% in order to compensate for
the acknowledged inaccuzacies of the BkHMAC data which arc yet to be rcsolve&
**    1Ihis figure is actually considerably loss due to thc 'reduction' in the 1997 figures.
31    From itis chart it can clearly bc seen that the PItY figurcs far excced the combined figures of all
other organisations. Indeed, since Pill ccrntracts are oftcn for less than 8 months duration and involve less
than 220 deminers the comparison with 12 months- duration and mnore than 1,100 deminers of the other
organisations becomes even morc pronounccd. It should be noted however that. some NGOs have becn
irvolved in low productivity tasks such ats house clearance. In addition it should also be noted that
commercial contracts are required to be transparcnt but similar information, such as costs, is frequently
'not available7 from othr organisations.
32    The World 3ank procedures state that the company with the lowest qualified bid must be
awarded the contact, but this fails to aclmowledge many aspects which can subsequenitly cause problems.
The aim should be to award the contract to thC lowest bidder who mzccL all requiremcrts, these should
include the confidence of the PIU that lic sclectedcontractor will be able to mcet the national and moral
obligations. Both PIUs have recently bcc obliged, because f VWorld Bank procedures, to award contracts
to 'qualii;ed' contractors about whom they had scious misgiving- Tn both cases thcsc misgivings were
justiriced and subsequently one contract has been terminated, thc second is under rnotice of cancellation
because of continual contractual problems.
6



- 27 -
Evaluation of the World B-ank Role
33    Although much good work was undertakn by the various agencies involvcd in the indisputable
success of the programmre there were a few aspects of the World Bank's perfornanace that caused
concern. These observations cover tbrce separate aspects, the lack; of forward planing, tbc bureaucracy
and the delays this caused and the continuous pursuit of aspects which had been addressed or were no
concern of the World Bank programme.
Beaurocratic Del-Ays
34    There are many examples of delays wlich can be clearly attibuted to the World Bank's slow
response. In an cnvironment which requires a prompt and procedurally correct response, these delays
merely increased the frustrations of the auftorities in Bosnia and Hcrzegovia. This slow reaction is
parEiculary fiustrating in a critical humanitarian situation. The World Bank clearly understood that this
was a new area oftheir operations in which they had littlc experience, and yet several documents, such as
the Mine Awarenuss Bidding Documcnt for the Canadian donation. were not seen by in-country
spocialists for their comments on suitability. The outeomc was an un.suitable document with unachievable
aims which contractors wcre reluctant to bid on wnd a subsequent delay until the next y¢ar. Tn a situation
wvhere nced is critical, finance is not plcntiful and mnine accidents are a regular occurrence this type of
delay is not morally defensible. Lessons have bccn learnt and there now appears to be a heter
understanding of the responses required in an 'cniergency' programme by al parties.
35   lTe stipulatcd selection process is clearly defined but frequently the World lBaok delayed their
endorsement of -de contractor selection. Initially this took- wccks, during which time contractors bid
securities wcre retained, causing concern to contractors, and, in some cases, fnancial diff:iculties because
several bid securities were unnecessarily delayed. The delays also wasted valuable timc during the
optimnum season for operational work.
36    For example, on one occasion, after a complaint by an unsuccessful bidder, the World Banklc
involved a 'Teclnical Advisor' who had no technical quLification or experience and who disagreed with
the qualified and expericnced advisor who had completed the technical appraisal of thee bids for the PIU.
This action created additional delays and yet lhe World Bank continued to address the iss;ue with the
unqualified advisor rather Lhan the PIU and the qualified advisor. The result, afwT a long drawn out
appLmisal process, was that the unqualified advisor was, unsurprisingly, found to have given incorrect and
inaccwrate information to the Task Manager. It is surprising that the responsible PIU Advisor was not
approached dircetly to qualify his appraisal. The lesson which should be leamt is that sufiably qualified
a-rd experienced personnel must be appointed to key positions.
37    The last Visit Memorandum makes reference to several issues that had alrcady been addressed
professionally and wiLh the corrcct authorities. further illustrating the continual reference to issues that
had becn addressed, were closed or were not a concern of the World Bankl Purdiermore it was blatantly
obvious that iacurate infozmation wras being passcd and uscd to criticise a structure and proccdure that
was clearly working professionally.
38    The end product of this was to create uncertainty within the donor community. ThIs unfounded
elemenL of doubt has certainly affected donor rcsponse and damaged the long-tem aims of the World
Bank.
Future Activities
39    T'hc Commission has now developed a 5 Year Strategy in order to address the medium to long
tem aspects of Lhe programme and to promote the intelation of the international response with the
national Tesponse and long trnm aims. It would be inappropriate for the Commission to addrcss future
plans and strategy in a document whiuh is a review of past performance. Iowevcr, it must bc
aclrowledged that future planning has been facilitated by World Bank support and has incorporated the
valuable lessons learned during the iTnplemnentation of the ELCP.
7



- 28 -
summary
40    The following are considered to be the maJor points of the programme;
a.    The original project plan would not bave succeeded to the same degree without the input of the
US State Department and the Belgian governmern which provided the additional elements and
assisted in making the programme a sucss. This co-operatiom should be ackaowledged.
b.    The PIUs have made mistkes during the learning process but, as subsequent investigations have
revealed, these mistakes have been gei=e errors.
c.    As experience has increased and the clearance process has developed the price per square metre
throughout the thestre has been gready reduccd. This is mainly due to the example of improved
productiviy achieved by the World Bank funded programme.
d.    The PIU strucmre, consisting of the PIU and the monitoring staff, has been effective in
mainting and improving all critical issues such as safety, quality, productivity and cost-
effectveness.
e.    The PlUs have proved that the most cost-effective solution to date has been the controlled use of
the commercial option.
f.    PIU stuctures require training to the required levels and this traning needs to be mainained
during the medium to long term.
g.    Due to the emergency nature of this programme the World Bank did not have a depth of
understanding of the damning 'iustd y at the outset. Lessons have been learned on all sides as
the programme has been implemented.
41    The Cormission wishes to emphasise that, despite this criticism which we hope will be seen as
constrcdve, the programme has been a resowuding success and has considerably assisted in creating
elemews of the demining stucture. It is the Conmission's view that the World Back contribution should
be conrnued bascd on this success and the lesscons learnr during the implementation of this programme.
Furure World Bank intervention will be gready enhanced if all partes work in a co-ordinated manner,
respecting the national structre and the aims of the national agencies responsible for dernining. World
Bank procedures should be reviewed in order to streamline procedures and speed up the decision making
process.
Encs CBenslav :Pusic                                                Milos Krstic
C              r                  Commission Member                  Commission Memb
8



IBRD 28134
TooOOsijek
N    Sosanulsa Nova  OradC   R %                   BoA nk 1:      $'         Vri
'. '.z'' '. ' A            .. ' ..                              .          '. ohio                       MSlc                      C,,.,.    CROA- I
2     Eth              _oscatalw           7.ad jrniovoroB no                                                                                          r
too ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~o
N   _       lBosansk                                     0%  tLda'                                                            i
NJe!xovac                             ""       Te1on~~~~~~~~~~~~ M~Oga j tkovoc: "''~'
TI'   :        iucot*..  SLeder Vkoaf _ *v/n
/                                                   Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ovsdvca~  OBoanoyaca
CROATIA~
~~~~~~ Drvo   M rl conjsco>;t                                                                        t                   Mj
/      sO'                     ra"'o                                                                        f io g ?tctst FDEAL
Jazero0   Jtc
Lx~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
43oces        <r:                                                                        vt  uJ--KnesiA
440                              0Glonto~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~o n      V ugok
.A4L                                          ' -.                                                  kROf*t49, i ; nNmdE"'9
0 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                  --bnd  .u           s hob co          .:      TeKonpcie,clos eomrk
-aeoik  -    -Oi            i           an any other iforrotiosshowson
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA                                            -~r  --  wa$r7 tkIsWardd°Boo°k GralYt any 4PdgrsnestD
MINE  AND  ~UNEXPLODED  O                                   NA            E   UO--                       -         -        oenytesdlogrseanieantsoaofccyeprarncteoforo
RISK  ASSESSMENT                                               -___-___-_______
Mc                                                    FEDE~& ~   '    URALN
-AJORROADS      -                   -                             -- .   ,,,  -    Ko2L0'      30REP U5
hl--4--RAILRROADS4   FEoXrmeer confrontattirn Pnes, 2-S loN mined width .                     <  /' le      \
--C'RIVERS                             ;.'--   HKiGH MINE RISK;  .-'SIB                                          ASTI                            tODV
O SELECTED CITIES                 -.                Areas maost likely to contarin mnines and tUXOs.  -   -/ S  P< - , SSTItH U NGAY!  >y
®    NATIONALCAPITAL                              MEfDIUM MINE Risk:                                               5 a  VCeyAo  <    ROMANIA   Vs
_._  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                        Amos aSTy COa;no  mines and lXCtn.           -                          500 50 W%ERS'GA=   -E E   __. 
Mhine a2nd' UXOS canomntiEn possible but unlikely          ITALYX t                      BULGARIA    Lee
-This mop doan not show exact mninefieldl informoition, it gives                            £i. -" - ;'<b     - P   D _   <S5
- --Only on overoll risk oaSuESSrlsrtst GobI os of Februorry 1996.   4;   TTErs   AE AMA\A-'-   0- 4
Bilk      ss                   GRNEEC   NEGRO) 3
-   ~ ~ ~   -              '   _                          - W DJ   -   X    TSAq S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TURKEY
lo16"- -= a                              170                          -8" :c" lJ   .                                       2 -   -          JULY 1 99
Y~~~~~~~~~~JL 1996EER



