The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4294-JO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$50 MILLION
TO THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
JORDAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
April 16, 1986
|This document has a restrictod distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance 
Iof their official duties. Its contents rnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1985               January 1986
Currency Unit = Jordan Dinar (JD)
US$1.00       = JD .393                   JD .368
JD 1.00       = US$2.54                   US$2.72
Exchange rate used in the Appraisal Report JD1 = US$2.70
GOVERNMENT OF JORDAN AND WATER AUTHORITY FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AWSA - Amman Water and Sewerage Authority
JVA   - Jordan Valley Authority
LRAIC - Long Run Average Incremental Cost
MCM   - Million Cubic Meters
MOP   - Ministry of Planning
NRA   - Natural Resources Authority
PMCSU - Project Management and Construction Supervision Unit
TWB   - Thames Water Board
USAID - United States Agency for International Development
WA    - Water Authority of Jordan
WSC   - Water Supply Corporation



FOR omci4L USE ONLY
HASEEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
JORDAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:               The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
Beneficiary:             The Water Authority of Jordan (WA).
Amount:                  US$50 million equivalent.
Terms:                   15 years, including three years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:         Same as the Bank loan.  The WA will bear the
foreign exchange rate risk.
Project Description:    The project, which is part of the Government's high
priority program to improve the water supply and
sewerage services in Jordan, would include:
i) extension and rehabilitation of about 450 km of
water mains; (ii) construction of one service
reservoir and two pumping stations; (iii) construc-
tion and extension of about 365 km of trunk and
collection sewers; (iv) construction of three and
extension of two sewage treatment works;
(v) supply of equipment for works operation and
maintenance and water sources monitoring; and
(vi) consultant services for engineering,
construction supervision and water supply systems
control. The project would continue the
institutional development efforts started under
previous Bank loans.  The main beneficiaries of the
project would be low and middle-income families.
Since the WA is reasonably well established,
project preparation is at an advanced stage and
previous experience in project execution has been
very good, no major risks are foreseen during
project execution or in reaching the project
objectives (para. 65).
This document ha a estricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the petformmace
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authordtion.



Local          Foreign       Total
(USS Millions)
Estimated Cost*:
Water Supply                                5.81            13.51        19.32
Sewerage                                   12.68            12.68        25.36
Sewage Treatment Works                      3.14             6.59         9.73
Material and Equipment                       -               6.76         6.76
Consulting Services and Training            1.49             0.27         1.76
Land Acquisition                            0.41              -           0.41
Base Cost                        23.53             39.81        63.34
Physical Contingencies                      2.19             3.30         5.49
Price Contingencies                         6.70            11.41        18.11
Total cost                       32.42             54.52        86.94
Interest During Construction                 -               9.45         9.45
Total Financing Required         U2lu
Financing Plan:
Proposed World Bank Loan                     -              50.00        50.00
Government Contribution                    30.55            13.97        44.52
Customer Contribution                       1.87              -           1.87
Total Financing                  3.3
Estimated
Disbursements:                                  Bank FY
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
US$ Million
Annual                 1.0     7.5      12.5   12.5     9.5      5.5     1.5
Cumulative             1.0     8.5      21.0   33.5    43.0    48.5    50.0
Economic Justification: Least cost program.
Appraisal Report: Number 6056-JO, dated March 28, 1986.
Maps: Numbers IBRD 19509, 19510, 19511.
*Cost estimates do not include import duties and taxes, from which the
project is exempt.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
-   TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A JORDAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and reconmendation on a proposed Bank
loan to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan of US$50.0 million equivalent to help
finance a water supply and sewerage project. The loan would be for 15 years,
including three years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The
Government would onlend the Bank loan to the Water Authority of Jordan (WA) on
the same terms as the Bank loan. The WA would bear the foreign exchange rate
risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A report entitled "Jordan Review of the Five-Year Plan" (No. 4129-JO,
dated May 1983) was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1983.
An economic mission visited the country in November 1985; its findings have
been included in the present text. 2/ Country data sheets are attached as
Annex 1.
Recent Economic Developments
3.       Conscious of the country's limited natural resources, its relatively
narrow productive base and the sensitiveness of the economy to changes in its
oil-rich regional environment, the Government has pursued liberal,
outward-looking policies in trade, labor migration and foreign exchange. This
enabled Jordan to alleviate the effects of a very high natural population
growth rate (3.4 percent) through massive emigration stimulated by high
salaries in the neighboring countries and, until 1982, through rapid expansion
of domestic production fueled by an exceptionally high investment rate and
rapidly growing export demand. At present, a large part of Jordan's total
workforce is employed abroad. In addition to sizable workers' remittance
inflows, Jordan has benefited from large inflows of grant aid from neighboring
countries as well as from a rapid increase in regional demand for its
exports. During the period 1976-82, the yearly inflow of workers' remittances
and grants reached on average close to two-thirds of Jordan's GDP. The
abundant supply of these resources and a favorable entrepreneurial climate
enabled Jordan to maintain both very high consumption and investment rates.
4.       As a result, the Jordanian economy expanded rapidly with an annual
average GDP growth rate of over 10 percent in real terms during the 1976-82
period; almost full employment was reached. The overall balance of payments
1/ This section is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
for the Manpower Development Project (P-4166-JO), daced October 10, 1985.
2/ References in the text which follows are to the East Bank of Jordan.



- 2 -
remained strong despite a large chronic deficit in merchandise trade.
Although exports of goods and non-factor services (primarily agricultural
products, manufactured goods, tourism and exports of the new commodities,
fertilizers and potash) grew at a rapid rate of about 16 percent in real terms
during 1976-82, its small base in relation to imports led to a continuous
deterioration of the resource gap. These trade deficits, however, were almost
fully covered by factor income and transfers from abroad. Government-
guaranteed external borrowing remained therefore within reasonable limits and
borrowing on commercial terms was reduced to a modest level.
5.       Beginning in 1982, however, the economic slowdown in the neighboring
countries has affected the Jordanian economy in many ways, leading to a
slowdown of domestic economic activity and a reduction in the inflow of
external transfers. The overall economic growth rate slowed to about
5.2 percent (in real terms) in 1983, still a satisfactory performance
considering the unfavorable economic environment; foreign grant aid was about
26 percent lower, and workers' remittances stagnated while exports of
manufactured goods and services to neighboring countries declined. Imports
also declined, in line with the sizable reduction in public and private
investments.
6.       As a result, the current account deficit for 1983 showed only a
slight increase to $390 million. In 1984, the decline in merchandise imports,
combined with an increase in exports of manufactured goods, contributed to
reducing the balance of trade from nearly $2.5 billion in 1983 to about $2.0
billion. Taking into account a slight reduction in official transfers, the
current account deficit fell to $269 million. Although preliminary estimates
for 1985 show imports increasing at a slower rate than exports, reduced
worker's remittances and grants more than offset the trade gains, leading to a
rise in the current account deficit to about 8.2 percent of GDP, compared to
6.8 percent in 1984.
7.       With the decline in government revenues from grants, public
investment has been reduced, and the Government has further intensified its
domestic resource mobilization efforts through cuts in subsidies and improved
collection of direct and indirect taxes. The main concerns of monetary policy
have been mobilizing savings and controlling domestic liquidity. Private
savings have improved, but public savings have continued to be negative
because of the high level of defense expenditures. To promote domestic
savings, greater discretion has been given to the Central Bank in adjusting
interest rates and banking commissions. As a result of increases in deposit
rates in 1983, savings deposits rose faster than the money supply. A parallel
situation materialized in 1984 and 1985 though both savings deposits and the
money supply grew at slower rates in those years. Together with a marked
decline in inflation to 3.9 percent in both 1984 and 1985, these increases
have resulted in interest rates becoming substantially positive again in real
terms.
Medium-Term Prospects
8.       Given the changed situation and outlook in the neighboring oil
producing countries, GDP growth in the 4-S percent range as is projected by
the 1986-90 Plan appears feasible in the medium term. This projection assumes
a reduction in the exceptionally high level of investments achieved during the



-3-
early 1980s, which reflected the implementation of a number of large new
projects such as potash, fertilizer and a refinery. While the new, natural
resource-based industries have provided some new employment opportunities, the
economic slowdown and a rapidly increasing domestic workforce (para. 12) are
Likely to change the manpower situation in Jordan from one of selective
shortages to one of general excess supply.
9.       The industrial sector (including mining, manufacturing and
construction) is expected to continue to lead the growth of GDP and exports.
The new industries have contributed one third towards incremental GDP during
1984-85. Together with an expansion of phosphate mining and cement
production, total industrial output would grow at an annual rate of about
6.2 percent for 1986-88 but slow down to an average rate of 4.9 percent per
annum for the period 1988-90. Since the rapid expansion of infrastructure and
private housing during the boom years of the 1970s and early 1980s has slowed
down substantially, the construction industry is likely to grow at a
substantially lower rate (3.5 percent per annum) during 1986-90. Thus,
industrial growth during the next plan period will have to rely increasingly
on the development of small and medium-scale higher technology manufacturing,
largely for exports. The projected 5.7 percent per annum for industrial
growth (1986-90) assumes that adjustment of the industrial sector in this
direction will be achieved, inter alia through changes in protection policies
and improvements in export incentives.
10.      Increased demand for services by returning Jordanians, coupled with
their accumulation of savings and experience, is expected to stimulate private
investment and growth of special services to an average annual rate of
4.5 percent per annum in the next few years. However it is expected that the
transportation sector and the hotel industry, which at present have a large
surplus capacity, will undergo a period of consolidation. In the trade
sector, efficiency gains from modernization would likely be offset by
increased pressure from higher unemployment to expand the less efficient
informal trade sector. In contrast to the expected slow growth of traditional
private services, the prospects are favorable for special services which can
use Jordan's skilled labor in areas such as consulting, contracting, and
maintenance. Agriculture is projected to continue to grow by about 5 percent
per annum.
11.      The projections for the external accounts assume that exports of
goods and non-factor services would grow by an average rate of about 5.0
percent per annum in real terms for 1986-90. Exports from the output of
previous and new industrial, natural resource-based projects to the world
market would make the largest contribution to this growth performance. The
export projections for the late 1980s assume that- adequate measures are taken
to develop Jordan's manufacturing exports. The import growth projections
assume that imports would slow down in line with the overall economic growth
rate. The fall in oil prices is expected to benefit Jordan by reducing its
1986 import bill by about $110 million, or 4 percent of its total merchandise
imports, assuming purchases are made at market prices. Even though
merchandise exports are projected to approach a rate of increase of 5 percent
per annum while imports would grow at a lower rate, the trade deficit could
remain large and approach the $3.0 billion mark in 1990. In relation to GDP,
however, the resource gap is expected to show a further decline from about 44
percent in 1985 to about 28 percent in 1990. Unlike the past, net workers'



-4-
remittances and foreign grants, which are likely to decline, will not be
sufficient to meet the growing trade deficit. Jordan therefore would have to
rely more on external borrowing (para. 15). To maintain its prudent debt
management, Jordan will need to combine external borrowing with increased
efforts to mobilize domestic resources, particularly in the public sector.
Social Issues
12.      Due to the substantial migration of Jordanian workers to neighboring
countries and the rapid economic growth, the labcr market situation has been
characterized until recently by selective manpower shortages. However,
according to recent manpower projections, supply of labor in Jordan in the
medium term is likely to show selective surpluses, particularly throughout
certain categories of skilled professionals. In 1985, it is estimated that
300,000 Jordanians were working abroad compared to a total domestic employment
of about 645,000. Domestic employment includes a relatively large number of
foreign workers currently estimated at about 143,000, half of whom are
unskilled. A comprehensive manpower and training plan as well as improvements
in vocational training are needed to help ensure that the education and
training system is geared to meet both domestic and external demands for
manpower.
13.      The Government continues to emphasize social issues in the 1986-90
Five-Year Plan. Although the social indicators are relatively favorable in
most sectors, social services are unevenly distributed across income groups
and between urban and rural areas. Housing remains a problem despite the boom
in 1978-80, mainly because housing costs have far exceeded the means of the
lower income groups.
External Assistance
14.      With the large, chronic trade deficit offset by inflows of
remittances and foreign transfers, the current account of the balance of
payments was on average in equilibrium through 1975-81. Net workers'
remittances increased from about $160 million in 1975 to about $980 million in
1984. In 1985, however, they decreased to $843 million reflecting the
economic recession in the Arab Gulf countries. Following the Baghdad Arab
Sunmmit Conference in November 1978, which pledged assistance of about $1.2
billion per year over a 10-year period, net foreign grant aid rose from
$400-500 million in 1977-78 to about $1.3 billion in 1980 and 1981; it
declined to some $0.8 billion in 1983 and to $0.6 billion in 1985.  In 1986 it
is expected to remain at $0.6 billion.  This decline was the main reason for
the current account deficits of $390 million in 1983, and $330 million in
1985, both of which were financed largely by external borrowing and partly by
drawing on reserves.  Jordan's reserves have remained, however, equal to three
months of imports.  The external public debt outstanding and disbursed reached
$2.5 billion at the end of 1985 (about 66 percent of GNP defined to include
workers' remittances). External debt service payments amounted to $317
million in 1985 or 9.7 percent of total exports of goods and services.
15.      Jordan's impressive growth, pragmatic economic and social policies
and efficient economic management have helped to attract large amounts of
foreign assistance. The grant component of this foreign assistance is
projected to decline gradually in real terms over the next few years. The



-5-
projections on that basis indicate a need for average gross external borrowing
of about $1.1 billion over the 1986-1990 period, modly in later years. While
bilateral and multilateral sources dan be expected to provide the bulk of
external resources, Jordan is likely to resort increasingly to the financial
markets, and this would result in a hardening of loan terms. On these
assumptions, the debt service ratio as a percentage of exports of goods and
services is projected to reach 13.1 percent by 1990. Given this outlook and
the country's record of prudent management, Jordan remains creditworthy for
Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 1/
16.      Jordan has received 20 Bank loans totalling $474.4 million and 15 IDA
credits totalling $86.1 million (net of cancellations) of which all the
credits and two loans have been fully disbursed. Project implementation and
disbursement performance have been generally satisfactory. In recent years,
disbursements have amounted to about 55-65 percent of disbursements estimated
at the time of appraisal, and this disbursement percentage has been generally
higher than the average for the EMENA Region. The IDA credits have financed
projects in key sectors, such as education, highways, water supply and
sewerage, power, irrigation and tourism. By mid-1978, Jordan had attained a
stage of economic development where it could be considered creditworthy for
Bank lending and had reached a GNP per capita level that exceeded IDA limits.
IDA lending was thus discontinued after March 1978. IFC has made investments
in Jordan with total commitments of $94.8 million.  Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits and IFC investments as of
March 31, 1986.
17.      Under its last two development plans, Jordan has aimed at
restructuring its economy to achieve a wider manufacturing base, to reduce its
dependence on external grants, and to spread the benefits of development among
different regions. The Bank's strategy has been tailored to support those
objectives and in particular is designed to help the Government: (a) to
diversify the country's economic base and promote exports; (b) to alleviate
manpower and infrastructure constraints in the productive sectors; and (c) to
encourage more balanced growth and distribution of social services among
regions and income groups, with particular emphasis on low-income groups.
18.      Within this broad framework, past lending has emphasized support for
capital infrastructure and manpower development. Since 1962, Bank Group
lending has focussed on water supply and sewerage, power and energy
development, education and urban and municipal development. The Bank Group
has also lent for irrigation, agricultural and industrial credit,
transportation, and tourism, and recently became involved in the health sector
with a loan for a Primary Health Care Project. In addition, the Bank Group
has financed technical assistance for developing and implementing a plan for
expanding phosphate rock mining. An engineering credit was made in FY75 to
help prepare a large project for potash production from the Dead Sea via solar
evaporation, for which a loan was approved in September 1978. These projects
have been designed with an emphasis on institution building to assist the
agencies involved to develop their capabilities to plan, prepare, and
implement projects on their own. In addition to the proposed water supply and
I/ Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report for the
Manpower Development Project (No. P-4166-JO), dated October 10, 198S.



-6-
sewerage project, future lending would include projects for transportation,
urban development, power and energy development, and industry and mining. IFC
has provided loans and equity contributions for a major fertilizer project and
for projects in the construction materials subsector. It has also assisted
the capital market and leasing ventures.
19.      The Bank has recently helped the Government to review the energy,
water supply, health, urban and education/training sectors, and the Bank's
economic and sector work will continue to focus on strengthening the
macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program. The Bank's economic
work program aims to deepen and broaden the well-established poliry dialogue
with the Government in priority areas: (i) development planning, with a focus
on resource mobilization and allocation; (ii) industrial and trade policies,
including technology transfer and export strategy/promotion and industrial
subsector studies; (iii) regional development and equity and efficiency of
government revenues and social expenditures; and (iv) manpower development.
These subjects are crucial because the substantially tighter balance of
payments situation expected for the rest of the decade calls for increased
efforts to step up domestic resource mobilization, to stimulate manufactured
exports and to optimize resource allocation, while making particular efforts
to reduce rural and urban poverty.
20.      At the end of 1985, the actual Bank Group share in Jordan's total
external public debt was estimated at 8.4 percent, and its share in debt
service was 7.4 percent. In 1987, the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding
and in debt service are expected to be about 6.5 and 9.4 percent, respectively.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
The Setting
21.      Water Resources.  About 80 percent of Jordan's land area is desert.
Availability of water depends largely on rainfall, ranging from moderate
amounts (600 millimeters per year) in the northern uplands to negligible
amounts in the southern and eastern deserts, over 85 percent of which is lost
through evaporation. As the more conveniently located sources of municipal
and industrial water supplies have become fully utilized, surface and
groundwater in other areas, hitherto used for agriculture, will have to be
transported at high cost over long distances and/or steep gradients to meet
these needs. The rapid growth of the economy in recent years and the
associated increase in municipal, industrial and agricultural water demands.
coupled with Jordan's high rate of population increase, have put serious
pressure on the country's limited water resources; and water scarcity may
become a principal constraint to economic growth. In these circumstances, it
is crucial for Jordan to realize the maximum benefits from its limited
resources by the continued development and implementation of a sound sector
strategy and through prudent water resource management.
22.      Water Supply.  About 87 percent of the urban population is supplied
through house connections. However, due to source and distribution system
inadequacies, the supplies in many areas are intermittent. Over 30 percent of
the water produced for municipal water supply is lost through leakage, due in
part to corroded pipes in the major distribution systems; with improved water
supply and distribution system pressure, the rate of leakage has increased.



However, leaks are expected to be reduced through ongoing rehabilitation and
replacement of older mains (para. 30). Even where public piped water supply
exists there is a danger that intermittent supplies can lead to contaminated
water because effluents can enter the system through leaks when it is
depressurized. This risk is particularly acute where septic tanks and
cesspits are used.
23.      Sewage.  At present, only four cities (Amman, Salt, Aqaba, and
Jerash) have sewage collection and treatment systems, and only about 25
percent of Jordan's population is connected to a piped sewerage system.
Sewage systems are being constructed in the Greater Amman area (Amman, Baqa'a
Valley and Wadi es Sir), Irbid, Zarqa, Ruseifa, and in ten medium size cities,
six in north Jordan and four in the south, eight of which are included under
the Bank financed Eight Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan
2425-JO), which will provide services to another 30 percent of the country.
In areas where sewage systems do not exist, the wastes are discharged in
septic tanks, cesspools and similar facilities. Despite significant efforts
to provide sewerage in recent years, rapid growth in urbanization, rising
standards of living and extensive but uncoordinated land development have
caused individual waste water disposal facilities to become inadequate,
particularly in high density areas and in soils with limited percolation
capacity. Occasionally, overflows or improper disposal of cesspool waste
occur, creating major health hazards. Severe outbreaks of cholera have
occurred in Jordan, the latest in 1981. The infant mortality rate has
declined in recent years but still remains high (60 per 1000 live births in
1982) as does the incidence of water-related infectious diseases. This
suggests the need for continuing efforts to improve water supply and
sanitation conditions in the country.
Government Strategy in the Sector
24.      The scarcity of water and the high cost of its development have long
been recognized by the Government. Based on a number of studies over the
years, including the Bank's Water Sector Study (para. 31), available water
resources are projected to be adequate to meet municipal and industrial needs
beyond the turn of the century with a modest increase available for irrigation
if the Government continues to pursue appropriate policies in the following
areas: (i) proper allocation of known resources and new resource development
(which includes transfer of water from water surplus to deficit areas,
continuing exploratory work for ground water sources and further development
of remaining surface sources); (ii) prudent water resource management by
strengthening the sector's institutional capability; (iii) quantity and
quality control of water and wastewater, including the protection of water
sources; (iv) development of policies related to reuse of waste water; (v)
development of appropriate cost recovery and other financial policies; and
(vi) manpower planning and training.
25.      Aided by sound government policies, water conservation is generally
practiced throughout the country. The cost of water to consumers is very high
in Jordan compared to most other developing countries, and consumption per
capita is relatively low on average. The Government has made impressive
strides in developing the sector. It has embarked on a program of large water
projects to help relieve water shortages, particularly in the upland areas of
northwest Jordan. During the last Five-Year Plan period (1981-85), almost 16



-8-
percent of public sector investment was allocated for water and irrigation,
about seven times the corresponding actual investments in the previous plan
period (1976-80), and continued priority for the sector is expected in the
next plan period (1986-90). Furthermore, the Government has adopted a policy
for adequately treating all sewage from industries and municipalities which
are sewered so that effluents may be suitable for reuse in agriculture and,
with the assistance of the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID), has developed a data management system for monitoring the quality and
quantities of water resources in the country. The newly created Water
Authority (WA) (para. 26) is responsible for maintaining and policing this
system. In order to deal with the problems of intermittent water supply and
leakage, the WA is implementing a program to systematically detect and repair
leaks and to improve water distribution (para. 30). These efforts should help
reduce the level of unaccounted-for water as well as the risk of
bacteriologically unsafe water.
26.      Institutional Aspects.  In the past, the sector was plagued with
problems of inadequate coordination due to the large number of institutions
involved in water production and supply for different user groups. This often
led to duplication of efforts and sub-optimal investment decisions. As
recommended in the Bank's Water Sector Study, an autonomous agency, the WA,
was created in December 1983 to take over the responsibilities for providing
water supply and sewerage services, water resource management and monitoring,
planning, development and allocation, and water quality monitoring for the
whole of Jordan. This has set the institutional framework necessary to better
conserve critically scarce water resources in order to sustain economic
growth. The thrust of the WA's work is to formulate policies and take
appropriate measures to augment the country's usable water resources, to
efficiently allocate these among the various competitive users and to ensure
that the water allocated is used economically. In order to undertake its
mandated role the WA is studying alternative organizational solutions with the
assistance of a management advisor.
27.      In view of the growth of sector-related institutions and operational
facilities, the demand for trained personnel has become an urgent matter. In
tne past most of the institutions involved in the sector had some training
programs, and several educational institutions provided some sector-related
training, but this was generally ad hoc, unfocussed and uncoordinated. With
the assistance of USAID, the WA is in the process of implementing a national
training program to satisfy both short- and long-torm problems in this area.
28.      Tariffs for urban municipal water supply and sewerage have generally
been in line with the cost of these services. However, ineffective control of
groundwater extraction by industry and agriculture, where tariffs or
extraction fees have not been imposed or are below costs of production, has
contributed to the need for early development of distant water sources at high
cost. A tariff study for municipal and industrial water uses, to be completed
by end-1986, will help develop the necessary financial strategies (para. 56).
Experience With Past Lending
29.      IDA commenced its assistance to the sector in the 1960s.  The FY62
Credit 18-JO for $2.0 million and FY64 Credit 43-JO for $1.5 million supported
water supply development respectively in Amman and in five other cities. In



-9-
the 1970s, the Government concentrated its efforts on developing the water
supply and sewerage services of Amman, which also resulted in the creation of
the former Amman Water and Sewerage Authority (AWSA). The FY73 $8.7 million
Credit 385-JO and FY78 $14 million Credit 780-JO assisted in the development
of AWSA and helped finance investments for Amman's rapidly expanding needs for
additional water supply and sewerage facilities. These projects have been
successfully completed, and completion reports for Credits 385-JO and 780-JO
have been prepared. The lessons learned from the above projects include the
need for better coordination in planning and execution of projects and the
particular importance of reducing unaccounted-for water in a largely water
deficit situation. It was also noted that while substantial efforts had gone
into the institutional development of AWSA, weaknesses remained, particularly
in its financial department. These factors have been taken into account in
the design of later projects.
30.      In FY83, the Bank provided further assistance through Loan 2213-JO of
$17 million for the improvement of the water supply and sewerage services for
the cities of Zarqa and Ruseifa. A prime project objective was to strengthen
the Water Supply Corporation (WSC), the project implementing and operating
agency, which was responsible for water supply and sewerage in areas outside
Amman and the Jordan Valley Authority. Technical and financial advisors have
already been engaged, and measures to improve operations and financial
management are underway. With the reorganization of the sector,
responsibility for the execution and operation of the project has been taken
over by the WA, which will be assisted by these advisors in its organizational
development. The Bank also approved in May 1984 a loan of $30 million (Loan
2425-JO) to the WA for the Eight Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project
(para. 23) and in January 1985 a loan of $30 million (Loan 2483-JO) for the
first phase of the extension and improvement of the water supply and sewerage
services in the Greater Amman area.  Project execution for the three ongoing
projects is progressing well, and they are expected to be completed during
1987, well ahead of schedule. Actions are also being taken to reduce
unaccounted-for water through improved metering, billing and leak detection.
WA staff members have recently been trained in leak detection at the Thames
Water Board (UK), which is providing a short term advisor. The WA has also
ordered water meters and leak detection equipment and plans to have a
satisfactory metering system in place by no later than 1988. This, combined
with actions being taken or planned with regard to water main rehabilitation
and meter reading and billing, should reduce unaccounted-for water on a
country basis from 45 percent of the water produced at present to a target
level of 25 percent by 1990. This would be a notable achievement, and the
target level would be acceptable in the medium term for a system of this age.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
31.      Given the close association between the Government and the Bank in
developing a strategy for the sector and the responsiveness of the Government
to Bank advice, it is appropriate that the Bank continue to play an active
role in the sector. The Bank's Water Sector Study (Report No.4699-JO, June
1984) made several recommendations concerning the sector's organization and
financial policies; outlined a strategy to develop available water resources
for meeting the needs of competing users; established general recommendations
for appropriate wastewater disposal; and formulated associated investment
programs. Based on this, the Bank's overall strategy in the sector includes



- 10 -
assistance to the Government in implementing policies to efficiently manage
and allocate the country's scarce water resources, executing technically sound
and economically feasible projects to increase usable water resources
(including effluent reuse), strengthening the WA, including training,
establishing sound pricing policies to assure economic use and conservation of
water and providing for adequate standards in works operation and maintenance.
32.      The proposed project has been designed to support the Bank's overall
strategy. It would help the Government implement high priority projects
within the next Five-Year Plan for the sector designed to keep pace with
increasing water demand and requirements for sound sewage disposal systems.
It would play an essential role in providing assistance and advice, and in
ensuring proper follow-up actions, for: (i) the development of water
resources management and conservation procedures; (ii) the development of
appropriate management and organizational systems for the WA; (iii) judicious
selection and formulation of potential projects and related investment
strategies; and (iv) improvements in operational areas such as financial
plazning, accounting, auditing, manpower planning and training.
Proiect Area
33.      The proposed project will cover the population centers of Greater
Arman, the Jerash area and the town of Aqaba, which are shown on the attached
maps. Amman, the capital of Jordan, has grown rapidly in the past two decades
and has become a major metropolis surrounded by growing suburbs and outlying
coumhnities. The economy of the Amman region (including the neighboring
Zarqa/Ruseifa municipalities) has been characterized by a contiuuing shift
from agriculture to the industrial and service sectors. Jerash, located some
40 bm north of Amman, is a major tourint attraction; and Aqaba, Jordan's only
port, located at the Red Sea, is increasingly important for the country's
industrial development as well as for the transit of goods to Iraq. The total
popuLation of these areas in 1985 was about 2.0 million and is projected to
increase to 2.4 million by 1990 and 3.4 million by 2000. This would represent
about 75 percent of Jordan's population by 1990. About 89 percent of the
urban population and 84 percent of the rural are connected to the public water
supply system, the remainder being served by public taps, water tankers and to
a minor extent by private wells. Water consumption for connected supply
averages about 85 liters per capita per day (lcd). Water supply facilities
are generally well operated and maintained, although some 6 percent of water
samples being taken are bacteriologically unsatisfactory. With regard to
water supply sources in Jordan, an analysis of projected water demand and
water availability indicates that existing water sources and those currently
under development would be sufficient to 1990, and total water resources would
be sufficient beyond the planning period 2005.
34.      Although significant efforts are being made in the construction and
extension of sewerage and sewage disposal works (para. 23), the needs have not
yet been satisfactorily covered. In Amman municipality about 80 percent of
the population is connected to the piped severage system, and in Jordan as a
whole about 25 percent is being served. The remainder relies mainly on
cesspool installations with effluent percolating into the ground, which
operate with varying degrees of efficiency depending upon loadings, soil
conditions and maintenance. Maintenance costs (emptying) can be significant
and in many instances the cesspool effluent overflows or is pumped illegally



- 11 -
into the streets, creating a sanitary nuisance and a health hazard. With the
completion of ongoing projects (para. 23), the percentage of the population
connected to public sewerage services would increase to about 55 percent of
the total population by 1987.
35.      Master plans for sewerage have been prepared for the Greater Amman
and Irbid areas, but project implementation thus far has been limited to the
central cities, leaving the fringe areas without proper excreta disposal
facilities. Studies have also been made for other major urban centers and an
inventory of required systems with a tentative establishment of priorities
have been carried out for all major towns and villages. Since it would
neither be feasible nor economical to cover the whole population with piped
sewerage and sewage disposal systems, the Bank and the WA have agreed on basic
criteria to develop the subsector which are: (i) extension of sewerage
systems in areas already provided with sewage disposal works in order to
obtain optimal utilization; (ii) identification of areas where there is a
threat to groundwater sources being used for potable water supply; (iii)
identification of areas where, because of impermeable soil conditions,
individual excreta disposal facilities are not economical because of frequent
and costly pump outs; (iv) identification of areas with high population
densities and significant growth potential; and (v) provision of simple but
adequate sewage treatment enabling effluent reuse for irrigation purposes.
36.      Since water production facilities are presently sufficient, the first
priority in the subsector should be the extension and improvement of water
transmission and distribution systems in order to optimize the use of existing
water sources, with the ultimate goal of covering the total population with
satisfactory piped water supplies. At the same time, existing distribution
systems should be continuously maintained and rehabilitated in order to reduce
water losses and hence defer the development of new and costly water sources.
In order to maintain the use of existing groundwater sources, their protection
from sewage infiltration should be safeguarded. With adequate water supply,
the need will also increase for improved waste collection and disposal
facilities, particularly in high population density areas. The construction
and extension of sewerage and sewage treatment works are thus an important
priority. Furthermore, the reuse of treated effluents will provide a valuable
contribution to water conservation.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
37.      The proposed project is based on the priorities developed in a phased
master plan for wastewater collection and disposal in Greater Amman as well as
a study of the primary and secondary water distribution systems in the Amman,
Balqa and Irbid Governorates, which evaluates overall availability of water
sources, their phased extension and their allocation among different users.
Proposed works for Aqaba and Jerash are also based upon master plans for
sewerage and sewage disposal facilities. The project was appraised in
November 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. during March 17-19,
1986. The Jordanian Delegation was headed by Mr. Mohammed Kilani, President,
Water Authority of Jordan (WA). A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 6056-JO), dated
March 28, 1986, is being distributed separately. The main features of the
loan and project are outlined in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex
III. Maps of the project area are attached.



- 12 -
Project Objectives and Description
38.      The project is expected to have a significant impact on the living
conditions and health standards of populations in the project areas. Its
major objectives include assistance to the Government: (i) in developing an
optimal investment program for the sector; (ii) in improving water resource
management and conservation and water systems operation procedures; (iii) in
rehabilitating and extending water distribution and sewage collection
systems;  (iv) in augmenting present efforts to reduce unsccounted-for water;
(v) in reducing groundwater pollution by the collection and treatment of
sewage; (vi) in providing for recycling of treated effluents; and (vii) in the
continued development of the Water Authority (WA).
39.      The project includes the following major components:  (i) extension
of 150 km and rehabilitation of about 300 km of water mains for the water
distribution systems (including a service reservoir and two pumping stations)
in the Greater Amman and Jerash areas; (ii) extension of about 365 km of
sewerage systems in the Greater Amman, Jerash and Aqaba areas; (iii)
construction or extension of five sewage treatment works (of which two are
existing) in the Greater Anmman area and Jerash to provide additional sewage
treatment capacity; (iv) equipment for monitoring and control of water sources
and water distribution systems including water meters, pipes, valves and
standby pumps; (v) consultant services for engineering, construction
supervision and operation control and monitoring; and (vi) training. The
equipment and consultant services provided for monitoring and control of water
sources and distribution systems is part of the WA's ongoing program to
provide information by tracking water production and distribution in order to
improve operational efficiency. The various alternatives selected and project
components recommended represent the most feasible, least cost solutions. The
proposed phasing of the various project components and the design criteria
used are appropriate.
Project Costs and Financing Plan
40.      The total cost of the proposed project, including physical and price
contingencies (in end-1985 prices), is about $86.9 million, of which about
$54.5 million (63 percent) is in foreign exchange. In addition, interest and
other charges during construction amount to about $9.5 million. Cost
estimates do not include import duties and taxes, from which the project is
exempt. The project cost includes physical contingencies of about 9 percent
of the base cost. Price contingencies amount to about 26 percent of base cost
and physical contingencies. The price increases for both civil works and
material and equipment for foreign cost expenditures have been estimated at
7.2 percent for 1986, 6.8 percent for 1987-88, 7 percent for 1989, 7.1 percent
for 1990 and 4 percent thereafter; and for local cost expenditures at 5
percent for 1986 and 7 percent thereafter.
41.      The proposed Bank loan of $50 million would cover about 78 percent of
the foreign exchange and 52 percent of the total financing requirements of the
project, including interest and other charges. The balance would be financed
by the Government as equity contributions and from internal sources of the WA
through customer contributions. The Bank loan would be made to the Government
for 15 years, including a three-year grace period. The Government would
onlend it on the same terms and conditions to the WA, under a subsidiary loan



- 13 -
agreement satisfactory to the Bank, the execution of which would be a
condition of effectiveness. The WA would bear the foreign exchange and
variable interest rate risks. The onlending rate would be significantly
positive in real terms as the current domestic inflation rate is about 5
percent per annum.
42.      Procurement and Disbursements. Procurement arrangements are
si-urized below:
Procurement Method       1/
Proiect Components 2/                     ICB     LCB     Other      Total
-         US$ Million
Water Supply                             23.41    3.50     -        26.91
(12.20)  (1.80)            (14.00)
Sewerage                                 30.92    4.50     -        35.42
(16.20)  (2.30)            (18.50)
Sewage Treatment Works                   13.55     -       -        13.55
(7.70)                    (7.70)
Equipment                                 8.42     -       -         8.42
(8.00)                    (8.00)
Consulting Services                        -       -      2.23       2.23
(1.80)    (1.80)
TOTAL                               76.30    8.00    2.23      86.53
(44.10)  (4.10)  (1.80)   (50.00)
1/ Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed under the Bank
loan.
2/ For water supply and sewerage about 9 and 11 contracts, respectively,
grouped on the basis of location and timing, are expected to be
awarded. For sewage treatment works five contracts are expected to
be awarded. For equipment, contracts will be grouped during the
course of project execution.
43.      All equipment supply contracts and those civil works contracts
estimated to cost more than $1.5 million would be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. About 88 percent of total project costs would be procured under
ICB. Other civil works contracts with an aggregate cost not exceeding $8.0
million would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures,
which have been reviewed by the Bank and are satisfactory. For equipment to
be procured under ICB, a domestic preference of 15 percent or the import duty,
whichever is lower, would be used for the purposes of bid evaluation.
Documents and awards for all contracts under ICB would be subject to prior
review by the Bank. It is anticipated that local contractors will be awarded
the bulk of the civil works contracts, while local agencies or foreign
suppliers may be awarded the contracts for treatment plants and equipment,
which would represent about 20 percent of total project costs. Consultants
would be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines.
44.      The proposed loan would be disbursed as follows:  equipment, supplies
and installation, 100 percent of foreign and 85 percent of local expenditures;



- 14 -
civil works, 60 percent of total expenditures; and consultant services and
training, 100 percent of total expenditures. The estimated disbursement
schedule in the Loan and Project Summary takes into consideration the standard
disbursement profile for Jordan which is six and a half years on average for
all types of loans. In order to expedite disbursements, a special account
(revolving fund) of $2.0 million (equivalent to an average of about four
months disbursements) would be opened by the Government and would be
replenished on the basis of standard documentation for eligible reimbursable
expenditures. Disbursements for contracts below $50,000 equivalent would be
claimed under statements of expenditures, documentation of which would be
retained for review by Bank missions. The loan closing date would be December
31, 1992.
45.        The extension and improvement of water and sewage systems in Jordan
is a continuous process; and for some key contracts, retroactive financing is
recommended in order not to delay critically needed improvements. Such
financing is proposed for expenditures incurred after November 1, 1985 for an
amount up to $3.0 million (6 percent of the total Bank loan). CQntracts would
be awarded and disbursements made according to procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
Project Execution
46.      The WA has established a separate Project Management and Construction
Supervision Unit (PMCSU), which has been responsible for preparing the project
and which would continue to be satisfactorily staffed. During project
implementation, the PMCSU would be assisted by engineering consultants for
project management, tender evaluation and preparation of contract documents,
finalization of detailed engineering, and supervision of construction works
and equipment supply and installation. These consultant services are expected
to be provided by the same firms undertaking the engineering design. Final
engineering including preparation of tender documents is expected to be
completed for the bulk of the works by mid-1986. The WA is in the process of
acquiring land for the sites of the sewage treatment works. This is scheduled
to be completed by mid-1986 and, based on past experience, should pose no
difficulties. The WA has sewer regulations that require properties to be
connected to the sewage system as it is constructed. While sewerage is
generally desired, the expense required for sewer connections may pose some
financial difficulty for lower income groups to be served. However, based on
previous experience from the Amman area, less than 2 percent of the
beneficiaries may need financial assistance. The WA has agreed to assist
low-income families with appropriate arrangements for sewer connections. A
project monitoring and reporting system, including selected financial
performance indicators, has been agreed with the WA. Agreement has also been
reached that the WA would prepare quarterly progress reports to be sent to the
Bank, commencing from the second quarter of 1986. The project is expected to
be completed by December 31, 1991.
The Implementing Agency
47.      The WA (para. 26), the beneficiary of the proposed loan, is an
autonomous agency which reports to the Prime Minister's office and enjoys
independent financial and administrative status. Operations and maintenance
of water supply and sewerage is carried out in three regional offices, each



- L5 -
under a manager, but supervised by related headquarters' departments and
subject to control by Water Councils composed of public and private sector
representatives.  The WA has already taken over the Amman Water and Sewerage
Authority (AWSA), the Water Supply Corporation (WSC), the water resources
branch of the National Resources Authority (NRA), the water department of the
Jordan Valley Authority (JVA) and about 300 municipal water supply operations.
48.      The number of staff in the different water and sewerage related
organizations now incorporated into the WA total about 3,000 people, which
corresponds to about 11 employees per one thousand connections served, which
is reasonable given the fact that the WA's responsibilities are spread over
the whole country and the population density. outside Amman is low.
Furthermore, another 550 people, previously belonging to the NRA, are engaged
in well drilling activities. Through the creation of the WA, a number of
overlapping functions have been eliminated and staff from separate
organizations brought together to work in consolidated units. While this will
contribute to increased productivity, additional staff will still have to be
recruited to operate the new sewerage systems being built under this project
and others. By the time this project is expected to be completed, WA staff
are projected to grow to about 4,000. Attracting and retaining technical
staff do not pose problems, as salary levels are competitive.
49.      Institutional Development and Training.  Institutional assistance is
being provided to the WA by the Bank under the Zarqa/Ruseifa Project (Loan
2213-JO) and by the USAID, with which the Bank cooperates closely. Management
advisory services are included under the Zarqa/Ruseifa Project to assist the
WA develop its organizational structure, establish staffing and training
needs, develop an appropriate management information system and propose
personnel policies. Technical advisors have been engaged to assist the WA to
improve operating and maintenance practices, to set up a data collection
system for project planning purposes, and to prepare major projects.
Financial advisors have been engaged to assist the WA develop its accounting
and financial management systems. USAID is assisting the WA to evaluate the
need for computerizing its various activities and would finance the subsequent
installation of computer facilities, which is expected to take place during
1986.
50.      The WA is undergoing a period of consolidation.  Because of the
urgent need to ensure satisfactory water supplies and to provide adequate
sewerage and sewage disposal facilities, it has heavily concentrated on the
development of its project planning, preparation and implementation capacity.
As impressive strides have been made in these areas, the WA is now
concentrating on organizational development, accounting and financial
management information systems, computerization, tariffs and training. As in
the past, Bank supervision efforts of the proposed project will emphasize the
institutional development of the WA.
51.      The WA has an ongoing training program financed largely by USAID.
The program provides for training of managerial and professional staff abroad
and operating staff at local institutions. The financial advisor is providing
on-the-job training to the accounting staff in implementing a public utility
accounting system. Several facilities in Jordan now provide training for
technicians in civil, mechanical, electrical and chemical engineering.
Programs have been or are being developed for training in water supply and



- 16 -
wastewater engineering and specifically for sewage treatment plant operators,
in view of the number of plants to be commissioned in the near future. The
USAID has prepared a proposal for a long-term training program which is
providing a framework to address the training needs of the WA in the years to
come. To supplement this, the proposed project includes a minor training
component requested by the WA which would involve a possible "twinning
arrangement" with the UK Thames Water Board (TWB) and would include WA's staff
being sent to TWB for training.
52.      Billing, Accounting and Audit.  The WA's efforts in the area of
billing/collection and accounting are generally satisfactory and are being
improved. The WA is planning to expand its own computer facilities, and by
end-1987 all billing will be computerized and done in-house. The accounts
receivable for the overall operations represent about four months of sales,
which is satisfactory. The management of the WA is devising measures to
further improve bill collection, including incentives for bill collectors and
the introduction of computers. The WA's accounting system in its Amman
operations follows the standard public utility format on an accrual basis and
is reasonably well kept; that outside Amman is still on a cash basis and is
not entirely satisfactory. The WA is extending the accrual system to its
entire operations and computerizing it. A new manual of accounts, prepared by
the financial advisor, is now being implemented. Finally, the WA has just
completed the process of valuing the assets it has taken over (para. 47),
using the services of a firm of chartered surveyors and valuation experts.
With regard to auditing, WA accounts would continue to be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and experienced in public utility
systems; financial statements and audit reports, including for the Special
Account and for statements of expenditures, would be forwarded to the Bank
within six months after the end of the fiscal year.
Financial Position
53.      The financial position of the WA reflects the nationwide scope of its
operations; the scarcity of water, which makes it imperative to protect
sources and to treat and recycle effluents; low average consumption levels;
the locational mismatch between water sources and consumption centers, which
necessitates the transportation of water over long distances and steep
gradients; and relatively high construction costs. The effect of these
difficult circumstances means that water tariffs in Jordan are the highest in
the Middle East Region.
54.       The WA derives most of its revenues from water and sewerage charges
based on metering.  In small communities without a piped water supply and for
a large nomadic population, the WA provides a tanker supply or a free supply
from water points. The unit costs of providing these services are up to ten
times higher than those in larger centers. Tariffs in line with such costs
would be totally unaffordable; thus, costs of these operations exceeding the
corresponding revenues have been covered by the Government. During 1985, the
WA took over a large number of water supply systems spread out all over the
country along with the personnel employed in these operations. The resulting
increase in its wage structure had a temporary negative impact on its
financial performance for the year. In the past, however, WA net revenues
have been sufficient to cover its operating costs and debt service. At the
end of 1985, the WA had a current ratio of 2.2 and a debt/equity ratio of



- 17 -
33/67, which reflects the significant role of the Government in the financing
of the WA's facilities.
55.      The WA's tariffs are proposed by its Board of Directors and approved
by the Council of Ministers. The WA charges for its sewerage operations
through a combination of surcharges on water consumption and connection fees
and an annual tax based on property rental values, which is collected by the
Government and passed on to the WA. Water tariffs in its piped supply
operations are adequate and in line with the cost of these services, while the
cost of providing tanker supply and free water point service has been
supported by the Government. The WA's average revenue from the current system
of sewerage charges is financially adequate.
56.      As part of the Bank's loan for the Zarqa/Ruseifa Project, it was
agreed that a tariff study would be carried out which would propose various
combinations of tariffs, user charges and levies for water and sewerage for
the Government's consideration, taking into account the need for water
conservation, affordability to the poor and the financial viability of the
WA. The scope of the study was subsequently expanded to cover the entire
country. The study is now being carried out by consultants financed by USAID,
and its results are expected to be submitted to the Bank for review by the end
of 1986. The study will serve as a basis for establishing a new tariff
structure.
57.      Future Financial Performance.  The period covered by the projections
(1986-92) will be one in which the WA must consolidate the large number of
systems it has taken over, while rapidly growing at the same time. The number
of water connections will rise by a third and of sewerage connections by about
three times during the period. By the year 1992 the volume of water sales is
expected to be double that of 1985; and with the new sewage systems, related
volumes to be billed would be almost five times as great. The volume of water
supplied by tankers and at water points is expected to level off by 1990. The
revenues from water sales would increase about three times the present level
and the revenues from sewerage and the taxes collected for sewerage services
increase by about six times. In the same period operating expenses would rise
about 2.5 times the present level. The difference between revenues and
expenses would leave a margin which would be sufficient for the WA to meet its
overall financial objectives.
58.      Agreement was reached under the Bank loan for the Greater Amman Water
Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 2483-JO) that the WA would from fiscal year
1985 onwards: (i) for its metered water services maintain or adjust tariffs to
provide sufficient revenues to cover its operating and maintenance expenses
(excluding depreciation), debt service or depreciation, whichever is higher,
and increases in working capital; and to finance commencing in fiscal year
1987 not less than 5 percent and from fiscal year 1989 onwards not less than
10 percent of the average annual investment cost; and (ii) for its sewerage
operations, implement a system of user charges, fees and levies sufficient to
cover full operating and maintenance cost (excluding depreciation) and debt
service or depreciation whichever is higher. For its water services by
tankers and at water points, agreement was obtained that the Government would
compensate the WA for any deficits resulting from such operations. (The level
of operational subsidies received by the WA for the operation of its tanker
services has been around JD 2.0 million per year.) Based on unaudited



- 18 -
financial results for FY84 and the first three quarters of FY85, the WA
complied with these financial covenants in 1984 but fell short in 1985 mainly
due to the large number of small urban and rural systems which were taken over
during the year.
59.      While this takeover process is almost complete, the accounting
systems procedures and control outside Amman need to be improved, due mainly
to poor past practices and the general scarcity of qualified accounting
personnel in Jordan. The WA is exerting significant efforts to remedy the
situation (para. 52); however, it will take four to five years before any
significant improvements in WA's financial operations become apparent. In the
absence of a cost accounting system it is difficult to allocate operating
costs in a meaningful way between metered water, sewerage and water tanker
services. Hence, it has been agreed that a new financial covenant be used
under the proposed loan to replace the existing covenants. This would require
the WA to meet all operating and maintenance costs (excluding depreciation),
debt service or depreciation whichever is higher, and adequate increases in
working capital from its water supply and sewerage charges. Under this
financial discipline, the former operating subsidies for water tanker service
would be eliminated. The new approach would require the same level of
financial effort from the WA, since the funds which the WA received from the
Government for water tanker services were on a long term basis about equal to
the contribution the WA would have made to investments under the existing
financial covenant. Besides eliminating operating subsidies from the
Government for tanker services, the new approach would make establishing
tariffs and monitoring financial operations much more realistic and
transparent. Furthermore, while the WA's investments after 1990 would consist
largely of continuous extensions to water supply and sewerage networks, major
new water source developments are expected to be lumpy, lasting only a few
years, and would distort the tariff setting formula under the old covenant.
It has also been agreed that the WA would provide the Bank, three months
before the beginning of each fiscal year, with copies of its forecast budget
for the fiscal year, financial projections for the following two years as well
as its proposals for any adjustments in tariffs.
60.      In the period 1985-92, the WA's debt-equity ratio would be around
43:57, which is satisfactory and also indicates that, in spite of the
important role that the Government will play in sector financing, a
significant portion of the capital expansion program would be debt-financed.
In the same period the WA's fixed assets in operation would double. Average
water tariffs would have to go up about 65 percent in this period, only
slightly above the adjustment necessary for inflation, which confirms the
financial adequacy of the present water tariffs. Average charges for sewerage
would not have to grow as much because of savings from economies of scale.
The projected water supply and sewerage charges would be within the customers'
ability and willingness to pay (para. 61), and internal cash generation should
cover debt service and provide small increases in working capital.
Affordability of Water
61.      The cost of water services in Jordan is high.  The long-run average
incremental cost (LRAIC) of water at a discount rate of 10 percent varies
between JD 0.370/m3 in areas where water is locally available to JD
0.490/M3 for areas such as Amman, where part of the water has to be pumped



- 19 -
over long distances. However, the water tariffs and sewerage charges as
projected would not impose a serious burden on even the lowest income
population. The lowest quintile of average monthly household income in the
Anman area is about JD 137. Assuming an average household size of five
persons and an average per capita water consumption of 65 liters/day, the
average water and sewerage bill would be about JD 5.20 per month (about 3.8
percent of the household income), which is considered affordable. Such
charges are generally less than the cost to maintain cesspool installations.
The proposed tariff study (para. 56) will include the determination of
appropriate sewerage charges for cost recovery and the means for collecting
them, which may be either by continuing the present system of a combination of
tariffs, user charges and levies or by a sewerage surcharge based on water
consumption.
Project Benefits and Risks
62.      The proposed project is part of the Government's high priority
program to improve the water supply and sewerage services in Jordan. It would
contribute to an increase (from 1986 to 1990) in the percentage of population
served by piped water supplies from 89 percent to close to 100 percent and by
waterborne sewerage systems, including sewage treatment facilities, from 32
percent in urban areas to about 85 percent. Direct beneficiaries of the
project are estimated at over 300,000 people. The benefits accruing from the
project would be substantial but cannot be meaningfully quantified. In
assessing these benefits, reducing the incidence of waterborne infectious
diseases and the pollution of waters used for various purposes and
improvements in the quality of life are all important factors. However, using
the revenues from sewerage as a proxy of the benefits accruing from this
project, the economic rate of return (ERR) would be about 10 percent.
63.      The ERR does not take adequate account of important socio-economic
benefits to be derived from this project including: (i) improved water supply
and extended sewage collection systems, which would result in enhanced
hygienic standards and subsequently have a favorable impact on general health
conditions; (ii) the reduction in cesspool effluents percolating into the
ground to enable the continued use of groundwater sources for domestic water
supply thus avoiding replacement by far more costly alternatives; and (iii)
the use of treated effluents for irrigation purposes which would contribute to
agricultural development and improve the use of Jordan's scarce water
sources. The proportion of the project that would benefit, and that could be
ascribed to, the urban poor is estimated at about 35 percent of the population
to be served (about 100,000) and about 30 percent of project costs and related
benefits.
64.      The project would continue the Bank's assistance to Jordan in
strengthening sector institutions started under previous credits and loans.
The creation of the WA was supported by the recent water sector study and is
the principal step towards rationalization and higher efficiency in the use of
water. Given the favorable response of Jordan to the Bank's analysis of
sector issues and policy recommendations, it is appropriate that the Bank
continue to play an active role in the future evolution of the WA and the
sector. The project would provide a continuing opportunity to help develop
the technical and financial management capabilities of WA staff through
association with supervision consultants and Bank staff.



- 20 -
65.      Risks. A project risk, if any, may relate to the possibility of not
achieving the projected number of sewer connections, which could affect the
WA's income and overall financial viability. Until now, however, the
population has indicated a willingness to connect to the sewerage system when
it becomes available, primarily because it provides cost savings as well as
being convenient. It is expected that this trend will continue. Furthermore,
it is expected that the tariff study would recommend a tariff structure that
would make sewerage services more affordable to the lower income group while
at the same time ensuring the financial viability of the WA.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
66.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 16, 1986
Washington D.C.



-21-                                           ANNE  I
Page Tlof 7
u~~~~ macic. ZCJRJj03 (snfmD LINENS p
ND"E                     (MDI  303353W
MORN             MIDDL                usNUE INK1
awIW       aioLt *Lunasutk      N. AMCA A Nu sUS          LAT. *33C304 CAR
TOmAL                               97.7       97.7        97.7
MUceLTUseL                          12.0       14.0        14.1
OIW we om   (uP                        ..          ..       100 1             1134.9                    1875.9
a,           vzua ce.a
(ELIU   OF OIL QlXYVALINt)         127.0      211.0       700.0 .           523.9                    "3.5
POuLaITSNmID-VI  (TIWUUA )   1595.0           22.0       3247.0 Li.
eul   POHLAWION CE OP TOTAL)       42.7        50.5        71.0              49.0                     67.7
P     0opAT    C noPuIN
PoHNATION in  am 2000 (MILL)               C.3
ATINA  POITI  (MLL)                                      17.0
PO1UU110 160IUt                                           2.0
POPULATION 3N05TW
P  SQ. M3.                        17.3       23.5        33.2              37.8                     4.0
PER SQ. in. SAI. LAWD            141.4      164.2       203.9             470.1                     91.1
POPULATICN AGE KRUC111  (3)
0-14 TS                          444        AS.         44.7              23.5                      3.3
15-64 135                         51.4       53.0        48.4              5330                     57.1
L5 AD ABOV                         4.0        3.1         2J                 3.3                     4.2
POULtION C01 RA  (2)
TOTSAL                             3.1        3.0         2.7               24                        2.4
alum                               5.2        4.7         4.0               4.4                       3.5
camI 13  ATE   ( PU 2100)           47.4       47.6        45.0              40.0                     30.9
CRUDEM    RATE (PER 72m3s)          19.9       1.5          6.0               11.5                     4.0
C0O03  EZPSUCTIOE RATE               3.5        3.5         3.6               2.3                       2.0
FAMILY P1.4311M
ACC*TOS. A        ?.O (. S)
USERS Ct or 1 11D 35)              ..        22.0 1.    26.0               21.4                     45.3
lIDS or FOOD 10. P  CAPITA
(196071-100)                       220.0       79.0        71.0              95.1                     109.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLT 0F
CALOR S Ct OF QU          )       95.0       97.0       131.0             118.2                     113.2
PRulS CR PS M DU)                 62.0       60.0        31.0              77.8                     59.4
O    W CAllND    AM PULSE        13.0       15.0        16.0 If           17.8                     34.2
CILD (ACeU 1-4) D3ATR MW            22.9       15.1         5.0              12.3                      4.4
Llt SPECT. AT ElRTE (23A8)          46.9       34.1        54.0              574                       A4.3
11ABMr SORT. RATE (P    0305)      135.5       97.5        62.0              96.J                     59.7
ACCES TO SAlt VA421 (2101)
TAL                               2L3         ..         50.0              67.2                     65.3
URIA                              U.S         ..        100.0              93.4                      76.5
RURAL                              2.1        ..       .   65.0             5.8                     44.2
ACCESS TO  ECEA UtIPOSAL
(2 OF PoULAZOK)
TOTAL                              ..         ..         76.0              45.9                     56.3
UUSI                               ..         ..         4.0 I            63.0                     73.4
RURL                              ..          ..         34.0 &            28.6                     25.5
POPULATION IttR  PSICI           5800.0      3780.0       900.0 IC         4331.0                    1909.7
POP. Itt NURSING 133              1930.0 lb  140.0       1990.0 7;         154.0                     60B.Z
POP. PER MWSTAL 3ED
TOTAL                            560.0     1350.0       520.0 /c          621.J                    362.0
UAM                              390.0 /h  1120.0       580A.  iF         545.0                    422.0
RIUAL                              ..      5440.0         ..             2511.3                   2716.7
AOIISOS PER U       AL SC            ..        36.5        45.7 /f           25.7                     27.5
AItt SIZE O   OUSLD
TOTAL                              5.3        6.1         6.7 /c..
URU3*                              5.5        ...
RDUAL                             5.1         ..
avu  No. or nSom/Ifosw
TaTAL                              ..         ..          6.5 /c.t
1111                               ..         ..          .                  ..
RRL                               ..          ..          .                  ..
PERWTAe Of DIIELLI; 113 ELECt.
TOTAL                             17.0        ..         65.0 /c t
1135AM                           39.2         ..         90.0               .
. tIIL                              1.4        ..         30.01                ..



-22-                                           ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7
JORDA                  -  OCIAL INDICATOR  DATA UNIT?
JORiDA                               ReteNce GRoUPS (wzciremn  wVCUzMs  /a
M"ST                     (MD-IT  ItCSOTC     UTcIATE l /b
1URCENT           DOflLC INCM             IDDLE INCO!
1961A       197CIb- CSTlM ATtdb.    N. APRICA A "IX, EAT    LAT. A,t1CA a CA&
UDUCATIOE
ADJUSTD ENROLtlMXT RATIOS
PRDINA:  TOTAL                    77.0        72.0       103.045.           89.6                     tOb.7
MALI                   94.0        79-0   .0 I0 O3.7                                      108.
TFHALE                 59.0        65.0       tO1.0 7F           7i.2                     104.6
SECONMAYt TOTAL                   25.0        33.0        77.0 /c           42.9                     *4.2
IALI                   36.0        41.0        79.0 7F            5U.9                     42.7
tMiAL                  13.0        24.0        76.0 7            34.6                      44j.
VOCATIEOL (C OF SEOWSUR)             2.7         3.0         6.9 /c           10.0                      13.3
PUPIL-T&A4NER RATIO
nPmE                              34.0        39.0        32.0 /c           29.7                       9.9
SICOIID&fl                        20.0        23.0        21.0W             18.6                      tf.7
PASSENR CABS/WTIIUSAND POP           3.7         6.7        30.7 a            17.8                      46.0
RU310 RCEIVERS/TSOUSADD MP          37.8       160.9       174.3             175.9                     328.3
TV UECCEIRS/ToUSAND PO                .         20.0        64.0              51.2                     112.4
UmPAPIM C5nhLT GENERAL
ITmRsT) CINRLATION
PER TROUSAND POPULATION            18.3        24.4        56.4              37.2                      *1.1
ClNl ANIL ATTEINCAECICAPITA          3.2         0.9         5.3 It            2.4                       2.4
LAS  foaC
TOTAL LASER FORCE (THOUS)          432.0       569.0       720.0
MSALE (PCRtCNT)                    5.0         5.6         6.9              11.0                      23.6
AGZIOLTURE (PERCENT)              44.0        34.0        20.0 I            42.4                      31.4
rINDUST  (PERCENT)                26.0         9.0        20.0  j           27.9                      24.3
PARTCIPATION KTE (PERCENT)
TornL                             25.5        24.7        22.2              26.2                      33.5
IALE                              46.7        45.5        39.6              46.2                      51.3
FatAL                              2.7         2.8         3.1               5.8                      15.9
ECONOMIC DEPNliOKUCT RATIO           1.9         2.0         2.3               1.8                       1.3
RUNCO1 DISTNflITIN
PERCENT OF PRIVATE ICME
RECEIVED BY
RIGUEST 5S OF HOUsstOwS            ..
HIGHEST 201 OF HOUSEE)LUS
LOlEST 202 OF HOUSlIEOLDS          ........
LOwEST 42O  OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..
-    wzsruOorHousEHLD
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..        230.0 /f          226.3                     288.3
RURAL                              ..          ..        100.0             134.0                     185.3
ESTDIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..        206.0 If          431.5                     519.8
RURAL                              ..          ..        135.0 7F          326.0                     359.7
ESTIMATED POP. BELEW ASSOLUTE
POVERTY INCO.E LExEL (S)
URBAN                              ..          ..         14.0 i..
RURAL                              ..          ..         17.0 71           29.0
MOT AVAILABLE
NT APPLICABLE
N 0 T C S
/a  The graspr a raves for each Indlcator Are population-weghced arithlutic sans. (verage of countries
amg the Indicators deopnds an avalability of data and Is not untforu.
/b   Unless otbehIse noted, 'Data for I960" refer to any year b*caeen 1959 iad 1Y1,; "Data for 1971? betseen
1969 and 1971; and data for 'ot Recent Eetieate" between 1981 and 1983.
fc  East aikt only; Id 1963 East Bank populatIon is 2.5  illion;  I. 1972;  ii 1977; 1] 1980; Ih 1962;
/L 1979.
JUNE. 1985



ANNEX I
-23-                                     Page 3 of 7
DullarmO5 OF SOCIAL I1N11CAlDI
Noc Ahbouth rdataaedaw rom moums puilyjudedemo auhotaveaad reIble It Ihould also be usod h at thy  nDt beiunaslony
emparba bc. dtbe Ixc    osncepd uSt   md eOn ie!d by d nt cout a in coleting the dats The data m, .ontbelew uhlc to
dscror ofdm  oa' ntde indict tlend. and caremc tain nmr dIa          be  countri
Tli uehrc.e roups an () 1h ie sme country group of he sbjet country and (2) a country gpop with somewhat higher av*mrp Income tha the country
p ofthe mbiscouy (laptforHighInoe Oi Expors groupwhenMiddlincome Nortb Africa sdMiddh E            chrsn bue ostronger
.acioIcultural alfisitens). In the refemi pomp data therage n popubato nightd anrtic mrn for eacht indkior end  own only whn majority
oth countries trn pomp hada for tha indiator. Since the coere of countir among the Indiotors depends on the avaIilty ddam ad is not unifornn.
caution ma be e     In reltingaver oone idicaor toanother Ths *avu_are c.nly udul in comprn  the vaueofone indictorsat a time sa
the counry and refeecle poupt
AREA (thousd sq.km.)                                            CrusBJltRe (per rheJadj-N umberoflive births in h year
Teal-Total surface are comprising land area and inland waters;  per thouand of mid-year population; 1960,1970, and 1983 data.
l960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                       Crudr Dash Rare (per rhousaad)-Numher of deaths in the year
Agkaswal-Estimate of aricultural area uad temporarily or        per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
pennaundy for crops, pastures market and kitcben gadens or to   Gro  Reprducdon Roar-Average number of daughters a woman
lie falow, 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                            will bear in her normal reproductive penod if she experiences
prent age-spectflc fertility rates: usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estinates at current        in 1960, 1970. and 1983.
market pnces, calculted by same conversio  method as World      F       PiSMnio5-ACC.JfWr, Annul (rhousands)-Annual num-
Sak Atri (1981-83 basis); 1983 data.                            ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  family planning program.
consumption of commrcial prmary energy (coal and lignite.       kiNmiy Pkeaarq-Uz   (pi-cens ofrftled wumae)-The percen-
petroleun. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geotbenral ec-  twe of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilogramrs o oil equivalent per capita: 1960 1970. and-    whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                      of child-bearing age are generaily women aged 1549. although for
sonm countries contraceptive usage Is neasured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                 groups.
ToadlPopatiou Mid-Ye1r (h83 dad)-As or July 1; 1960. 1970.      FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 dana.
tIne of Food Preeuction Per Capita (1969-71 - 10)-Index of per
prbu  P eop on (pdrent orrt dn ti Ratio O  urban to total       capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
p opulation: different definitons of' urban areas may affect compar-   ~ ue   nmlfe  n  edfrarclue  odcmoite
ability of data among countries: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.     include primary commodities  (e.gr augacatur   Food comosoditas
Po_plion Pojecies                                               which are edible and contain nutrients (eg. coffee and tea are
Poplarion in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.   excluded': they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses. oil sceds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetables. fruits. nuts. sugareane and sugtar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality ates. and  livestock products. ASgregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these paramesers  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
wer projected at fiv-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population becane stationary.             Ar Capta Supply of Cais (percenr of reqaire-euts)-Comnput-
Stationary popularion-Is one isr which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from cdorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domrestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate - I). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animnal feed, seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normnal activitv
siz was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temnperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sexdistribution of population.and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                              .       waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Populan Momentum-Is the tendency for population growth to       Per Capita Suply of Praoein (grans per day-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved. that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established bv USDA
unity. The momentum of a populatiop in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertilty remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
PousblSJ Dekiat                                                 average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.kps-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-   Supply: 1961, 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                Per Capita Protein Suppl From AAni   and Pulse-Protein suppl}
Per sq.kn. agrichural land-Computed as above for agricultural   of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
Ppop ion Age Srrewe 'perceft)-Children (0-14 years). work-      CEld (ages 1-4I  Death Rare (per aho_asndj-Number of deaths of
ingage(15-64years). andretired(65yearsnandover)aspercentage     children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Poplaio Crawh Rate (percesrl-toaral-Annual growth rates of      from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.    HEALTH
Ripuatiou Growrh Rate (percer)-arbar-Annual growth rates        Life &pectancy - Birth (yearfs-Number of years a ncewborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.     infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-24-                                      ANNEX I
Page 4 of 7
at t dme of of Its birth wie to mty the amm  throughout Its Ufe;  Al-iteachAr Jatio - primary. ad secoudern-Total students en-
1960 1970 and 193 data                                        rolled in primary and secondary Ieis divided by numbas of
how Mwtahy Pa (per thsd)-Number of infants who die    tewhet In the corresponding leIb.
before reacing one year of ag per thousand liw births In a given
year 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPTION
Acen *r3t S   Ehu W  pur sp t ofIp.pidedmJ-1tatu   wUN, da    Prenr Ca r       r thu*sand p.pulde)-Passenger can scon-
rwl-Number of people (totia, urbn and rural) with reuonable   prise motor cars sating less than eight permons; excludes ambul-
am    to  f water supply (includes treated urface waten or    ances, bears and militay vdeilsa
untrated but unconutamnated water such as that from protected  RAoaJ Receivers (per thousanod p.pwlalm.-AIl types of receivers
boreholes sprin  and sniury wdls) u pecenugs of their rpoe-   for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tin populations. In an urban -m a publi fountan or stndpost   cludes unlicensed receiven in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 mtters from a house may be considered  registation of radio set was In effect; data for recent years may
u being witio reuonable access of that houe. In rural are     not be comparable since most countries abolished liaening.
reasnble accs would Inply that the houswife or members of the
houehold do not have to pend a disproportionate part of the day  TVRaeers (rmomre                     civers for broadcat
in fedn  the fmly's water ne                                  to general public per thousand population: ecludes unliocnsed TV
Acee's to Ewee. Dispemi (purest         ~           w,        receivers in cutriem and in yean when regsttion of TV set was
and rowa-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) srved by  sn
excreta dispoal as percentag   of their respective populations.  Newsper Circlaton (per uh_audpquaplanj-Shows the aver-
Excreut disposai may include the collection and disposaL with or  age circulation of daily gal interest newspaper." defined as a
without treatment, of human excrema and wase-water by water-  periodical publition devoted ptimarily to recording g a news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is conidered to be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week
Populatin pa Phpsicm-Thpulation divided by number of prac-    Cuiema  A dnna Attendanc  per Cia p  r Yer-Based on the
tising physicans qualified from a medical school at university level,  number or tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Populaio per A/oViag Persoa-Npulation divided by number of  drivin cnemas and mobil units
prcicng male and femle grduate nurses, assistant nurses,      LABO  FORCE
prctical nurs and nursing auxiliaries.
Popdatim per Hosp    Bed-total, rban. ad rbra-pulation         Total Labor Force (thousandsj-Economically active persons. in-
(total, urban, and rural) divided by their rspective number of  duding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives,
hospital beds available in public and private, geral and specialized  students. etc.. covering population of all ages Definitions in
hospits and rehabilitation centers Hospitals are establishments  various countries are not comparable; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
permanendy staffed by at klst one physkian. Establishments prov-  Feak (percext1-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not induded. Rural hospitalK  force.
howDjeve include health and medcal centers not permanently staffed  Agriulur (percent)-Labor force in farming. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse midwife, etc.)  and fishing as pcntage of total labor force; 1960, 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facities.                                          Industry (percenrJ-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
Adsuo  per Hospita Bed-Total number of admissions to or       facturing and electncity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 dat.
Partcpai Rare (percentj--rral, male, andfenale-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as totaL male, and female labor force
A7eue SL-e of Hawehod (pe s per homeoldDrorat, rl-ban,        as penages of totaL male and female population of all ages
adrurl-A household consistsTof aroup of individuals who share  respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 daa. These are based on ILO's
iving quarters and their main meals A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates refleing age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be included in the tousehold for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources
Average Number of Perns per Room-oral, urba. and rural-       Econondc Dependency Raro-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural    65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRIBUTION'
Prcenage of Dellgs ith Electrick;-rotal, arban, and r-ual-    Percentage of Totd Disposable Income (borh in cash and kind)-
Conventional dwellings with eectricity in lving quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of totaL urban. and rural dwellings rspectively,         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjused E     _uw    Rada                                     The following estmates are very approximate meastires of poverty
Messy school - toald, male arid female&ross total. male and   levels, and should be interpreted with considerable cantion.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  EstmaedAbsole Pobcrty Inome Level fUSS per capraj--urban
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  ad rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school ageto be 6-1 1 years, others do not The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For sorne countries with universal  Esmoat Rdlave Pomety Income Level (SS per capita)-arban
education. gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rural-Rural relative povrty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Sewondry school - total. male and femae-Computed as above;   lving in urban areas.
seondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estimaed Pbpuathn Beow Absolutc Paverty icnme Levd (per-
mary instruction; provides general, vocational or teacher training  cent-arban ansd rural- Nrcent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 w 17 years of age; correspond-  who are "absolute poor.'
ence courses are geay excluded.
Vocatina Ebrollmn  (percent of secorxday)-Vocational institu-           Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions indude telhicaL industrial, or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projeions Department
idependently or as departnents of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



-  25                                                      AMc x
Par 5 oE 7
JOSM- xCie4c UCM%s
kPulatioci 2.6 millin (1984) 1/
GW per cpita:  US$ 1,710 (1983Y l/V
AWQ,Mt                                           AMh l Growth Rates
Wlictor                 (million U$ at              Actual (at 1980 prices)                            Projected (at 19B0 prics)
Cur.t price)
196'.             1979   1980   1901   1962   1983    1964   1965 3/  1986   1987   1988   1969   1990
NMML AcaxD
Gro  dmatic pmduct          3,960               6.5   12.0    6.7    7.8    5.2       3.2    3.2       5.1    4.9    5.2    4.7    4.7
Ariai1juw                289             -Q7.9   30.5    3.0    2.0    3.0       2.0    3.2       5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Lidintzy               1,030              17.7   14.9   11.7    2.6   -0.1       5.8    4.1       6.2    5.6    6.6    5.0    4.9
Service                2,111               7.8   12.2    3.4    8.0    2.0       3.0    3.5       4.5    4.6    4.6    4.6    4.6
7.3   14.2    6.0    5.8    1.4       3.8    3.6      5.1    4.9    5.2    4.7    4.7
tMuution                   4,5M6               1}.5   -2.1   14.5    9.0    6.1    -0.6    2.2        4.1    4.8    5.2    4.0    4.3
Q    ls 1nvestmc            1,274              14.0   25.8   33.4    2.9  -16.9    -7.0   -2.0        5.9    4.8    5.4    4.5    4.7
It   WSa                    1,847              20.    24.4   13.0    0.8    4.5    -5.9    7.0         5.1    4.7    4.7    5.4    4.8
lports of QES              3.745               26.4   -1.7   19.0    6.8    2.9    -7.6    2.0        4.2    4.6    5.0    4.2    4.2
Gros Niti al  Aoduct        3,771               6.4   10.4    8.6    7.5    34        0.1    1.2       5.8    3.5    3.6    1.9    2.1
P Deflator                                86.1  100.0  111.6  117.5  121.0   124.5  129.6    136.1
aa       Rate                              3.33   3.35   3.07   2.84   2.76    2.6    2.54        2.80
Share of GRE at Nadcet Prices (Z)                herage hmual Increase
(at mnent prices)                            (at esstwe prices)
1975    19E0    1985                     1960-85               19690
Gs Dmutic Pnxiuct                                       95.8   100.8   107.2                         5.6                   4.9
AricultLre                                          8o       6.7     7.8                        8.2                   5.0
kiuktry                                            24.0    29.0    28.1                         4.1                   5.7
Services                                           61.0    55.8    57.3                         4.0                   4.6
tl timn                                                124.5   110.0   122.9                         5.8                   4.5
CktwS IlMEnt  t                                         27.3    41.6    32.7                       -2.0                    5.0
&Forts of 5DS                                           37.2    48.4    51.2                         2.7                   5.0
lupts of GRS                                            92.5    99.0   100.2                         3.3                  4.5
uas tktioul Proct                                      100.0   100.0   100.0                         4.3                   3.6
net Factor  e                                            4.2    -0.8    -7.2                          -                     -
c:oss ktional Savigp                                   -24.5   -10.0   -22.9                         -                      -
As 2 of GP
(at current prices)
1975        1980       1985
RILC  }NA
Dmstic Raeen s                       24.8        23.3       29.3
linent Eapeuiirres                  37.6        34.6        36.6
dgetary Sigs                       -12.8       -11.3        -7.3
Capital E di'rs                     23.6         23.4       18.7
Fobrei   in P cing                   34.8        28.3       24.4
of which foreign grart             30.0        20.9       13.2
1980-85    1985-90
aim nDzcum
TIR                                 7.8         6.2
Ihziml Qoss Rational
Savings Rate                     -0.6        -0.9
sozt Elasticity (Qos                0.6         0.9
I/ East Blk oly.
2  Peidnary estiate base  On the revised series of natial ao,ts to be discussed with the G rruent, ihich excludes zeittances
fza lrg term e  esidents abxced that are conidered capital transfers.
3/ Preli lnear estimate.
EMB CPIUC
April 1986



- 26 -                                                    AIN  I
Pqp 6 of 7
- - m Tm
Awaurt                                       Ams Groth Ibte
Indicator               (uillima 13 at             A:bsml (at 1980 vrca)                                    Phoiected (at 1981 kGa)
Carr!t prces)
1984              1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984        1985 / 1986   1987   1988  1989  1990
EML DhU
Memlbuuise eqaortl 2/   679                 23.6   22.7   22.6    0.5   -5.6   49.8         1.1    8.6    4.1    4.3    6.3   4.5
Primy 3/               404               21.1   1L7   13.7   27.0   10.9   31.0          9.4    5.9    3.5    3.6    7.5   3.5
twultzu                 275              27.4   28.4   34.6  -29.9  -39.8  121.3        -5.8   11.3    4.7    4.9    5.1   5.
lkrchube iorta  2        2,779              17.0   -2.1   20.3    73       5.7   -7.7       1.7    4.1    4.6    5.1    4.1   4.2
Food                    420               7.9    0.5   31.6   20.0  -16.8   -6.5         2.3    3.5    4.2    4.6    3.4   3.7
Petmlzx                533               10.8   14   15.2   27.9   -04    -4.5          3.2    5.1    4.9    5.2    4.7   4.7
Nthimyer -W eatipat  421                  13.0   20.7   50.4   -8.9  -21.4  -26.5       -1.6    4.6    4.4    4.7    4.3   4.3
Odor                  1,405              27.0  -20.5  -14.4   13.5   68.7    3.4         2.6    3.6    4.8    5.3    4.0   4.2
atS                                                           (1980.10D)                                       (1984-100)
aport price irlec          -                84.2  100.0  114.7  125.4  114.6  124.8        95.7  102.6  109.5  119.7  131.0 143.2
liqort price indec         -                80.7  100.0  121.8  123.8  113.1  119.0        98.6   99.7  103.4  110.0  117.2 125.1
m    of tnde iix           -               104.4  100.0   94.2  101.3  101.3  104.8        97.1   1L9   105.9  108.8  111.7 114.5
apitian of Nezicule  Ihade (2)                        Aierage Auul towd. Ra
(at awxIt prices) 5/                               (at ccnstat prices)
1979      1964     1989                            1980-65       196590
-P-S11                                            100.0     100.0    10O                                143            5.3
lyfiny                                          57.6      59.5     47.1                              16.5           4.8
I:ufaWze                                        42.       40.5     52.9                               10.0          5.8
Biort                                             10D.0     100.0    100.0                               3.0           4.5
Faod                                            17.1      15.0     14.8                               04            3.9
Petwla-                                         12.6      19.1     20.0                               4.9           4.9
Ithhiney m   equ                                32.8      223      21.6                              -8.9           4.6
OdEr                                            37.5      43.5     43.7                               15.4          4.5
glare of  fal lapXtB (2)                      son of 'a1 Iuos (2)
DILR4 OF TMIE                                             1975       1983                              1975         1983
Dewlopdsirket ewamie                                      17.6        4.9                              62.6         46.3
Develicintr   t ecames                                    70.2       82.0                              29.2         46.5
of which Arab countries                                 62.4       63.3                               19.8        43.6
?t:ray pla    eaocmes                                     12.2       13.1                               8.2          7.2
I/ Exludi rg.e-expr.
i  Tocal expons and imports ar   r   ftan Te Mm nistry of Planing's narimil accB rti in cocutmt 198 prices. ApRopriate deflatrs (fi
EEX ad Ck adjsted by the exdare  te iIdex) were usd fDr pridrf ewroa, and for food, oil. nI  cqpia pods imports; i&mfcbaed
exports and other iipaxtn wee Created as residul.
3/ Izhues fod, hsophaes sa  potsh.
/ Prel         estulte.
5/  bums my anot am de to ruting.                                                                                 M       -C
April 1986



- 27 -                                   sA1
14   7 at 7
-D - NAIS  P566113, UML CO=L SD -Or
fiLllim of Wl at a-wx prices
ACsi                                       Projected
1979   1960   1981   1902   1963          1965   19b6   1967  191B   1969  1990
pali.
MAIC OF PAUMl
1aC of pad&  servm=es   1819  2496  3144   318b   30U    3187   3270  3538  3673  4275  4752  5269
Of Shick Nezamlise h0b.        402    575   735    751    560    757   780   943   1050   I9    1390   1590
JmD   r.ma.  600    794 ll3   1(34   1110   137   1123  1144   120   I=    1319
hyatt  of pods &  ri.   2872  3A    4491  4580   4243   4170   40   451   5001   564  6325   7083
Of Wtidc  Hxdiie  fi.    1957   2396  3170   3239  3036  2734  2761  2666  3150  3583  4012  4484
trIb   rattan         80    154   158    177    201   254   210   291    306    315   323    330
Not cnfeu                     1066   1338   135   106      813    714   600   600    600    600    600   6W0
arest Acut  alae                -7    374   -41   '336   -369  2169   -330   -373   52    -768    73  4214
Priwz disect h anht             26     27    67    91       24     75    75    75    75    75    75    75
IZ lom  (tat)                  193    232   274    242   3K    460    186    352   576    855   1069  L127
Official                     W      240   283   27       16    16    166   223    279    318   319   318
Ptint                         50    -6    -9   -5        142   299    2    129   297   537   750 1        09
Oder cpital                     2D  -26    -256  -173    165  -431         0      -      -      -      -      -
Omige  in                     -232   -369   -43    175   -106    165   166    -54   -123   -161   -171  -2
Yntemt-iel  remeas            1215   1586   153   1211   105   110   1074  1128  1Z50   1411  1581   1M
Of  ich; Caid                   82    208    198    194    2      20    2M0    20    200   200   200 20       0
mea m  t s of iporc   5.1    5.5   4.0   3.2    3.0   3.6   3.0   3.0    3.0    3.0   3.0   3.0
ZnL CA  D - -r
Gass Disbusamits               250    306   408    375   449    625   381   556    847   1146   1350  im
oaaiaa1 la                   151    133    126    11    234    218   236   287    371   447   469    183
fin                       13      9      3      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
Otbw                     138    124   123    1O8   232    218   236   287   371   447   469    183
trcawessiam    laws           99    173   282    191    215   407    145   271   476    699   881   1137
OffiCisk eqart cadit       2     97    159     94     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
a)                         4     22    19    U        28    26    36       54    54    42    31        19
Othr   ltilate=ra          7     14      6     30    29    2D       13    11       8      5      3      2
W tine                    86    40    98    56    148   361    95   2D6   414   652   847  1116
Swnai d-t
Debt  QittKlig aA
diebdur                    1048   1266  1480   1685  1940   2336  2522  2874  3451  4306  5375  6702
Official                 765   993   1226   164   1615   1718   114  2107   z387  2705  3024  3342
Prince                   283   273   254   221    32S   618   638   767   104   1601  2351  3360
Ititmsned debt               863   12II   995    831    896   79o   536    319    187    110    63    38
Debt svice
Tora service p_juaca          96    133   201    193   212   282   317   339   424   492    560    663
1 Cteru                  40      58    66      61    88   117    122   134    154    21    279    370
PtamZ eort                   5.3   5.3Z   6.4Z   6.12   7.4C   8.8   9.7Z   9.e  10%  US1.52  U1.8   125
Wbrld tak kqm iAs
of dixw 0as                  6.8Z  10.12  5.4X   4.0Z   6.7Z   4.1%   8.5   7.7Z   6.22   3.7Z   2.42   1.3Z
of debt wervic               0.lZ 1.1%   L72   2.6C   3.42  4.42   7.4   8.7Z   9.42   9.    8.72 743
of dettnta i    & diab   6. 72  La;   8.3   8.2Z   8e   8.1%  L4Z   7.4    6.5Z   5.32  4.2Z   3.2Z
ar inem Me (2)            53    6.8    5.3    6.0    7.3    5.9    85   13.2   10.3  10.5  10.7  10.6
Aezw   nwaiy  )(yas)          21.4   14.8  17.7  20.1  14.1  14.4  ll.O   10.9  10.7   10.6  10.4  10.2
MarqepaaaCysre)           4.7    3.8   4.3    5.0    3.3   4.2    4.5   4.5   4.4    4.4    4.4   4.3
As 2 of Debt OIt;zD8
at ad of tat AtN  Thur (1984)
ItnnitY Stucer5   of debt Oatatdiag
2arkitim d6e witlin 5 yar                          52.6
taritis da within 10 yes                           99.7
Ibtemt st_ucfn of debt auttuizi
Interat due within first yar                        5.2
f4l  1986



- 28 -
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JORDAN a/
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1986)
U mS Million    -
Amount
(less cancellations)
Number   Year       Borrower        Purpose             Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Fifteen credits      Jordan
fully disbursed                                                 86.1         -
Four loans fully
disbursed                                              75.9
1893     1980                 Urban Development        21.0                 9.4
1986     1981                 Power Iv                 25.0                  2.3
2068     1982 d_       "      Education IV             25.0                15.2
2162.    1982                 Power V                  35.0                12.5
2213     1983                 Water Supply and
Sewerage               17.0                 6.6
2246     1983 d/              Education V              18.8                17.4
2334     1983                 Urban Transport           30.0               27.6
2371     1984          "      Energy Devt. I            30.0               15.3
2378     1984 d/              Education VI             40.0                39.9
2425     1984          "      Eight Cities
Water Supply
and Sewerage            30.0                15.2
2463     1985                 Multi-Mode
Transport               30.0                30.0
2483     1985                 Greater Ammn
Water Supply
and Sewerage            30.0                24.4
2531     1985          "      Primary Health Care       13.5                13.5
2587 c/  1985                 Urban Development II    28.0                 28.0
2614 c/  1986                 CVDB II                   15.0               15.0
2633 c/  1986          "      Manpower Devt.           10.2                10.2
TOTAL bl                                              474.4      86.1      282.5
of which has been repaid        17.5       4.1
Total now held by Bank/IDA b/ 456.9       82.0
a/  The status of the above projects is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
b/  Includes exchange rate adjustments.
c/ Not yet effective.
d/  Education IV and Education V loans are substantially committed.  Bidding
under Education VI loan is progressing.



-29 -                 ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1986)
--US$ Million -
Year          Obligor           Type of Business        Loan    Equity    Total
1974     Jordan Ceramic Ind.
Co. Ltd.             Ceramic Tiles             1.6       0.2       1.8
1975/    Jordan Fertilizer
78/81182   -nd. Co.            Phosphatic Fertilizer  79.5 1/   8.7         88.2 1/
1979     Jordan Lime and
Silicate              Building Materials        2.5       1.3       3.8
1979     Jordan Securities    Money & Capital
Corp.                  Market                             0.7       0.7
1980     Jordan Leasing
Co. Ltd.             Leasing                             0.3       0.3
Total Commitments                              83.6 1/  11.2       94.8 1/
Less Comitments Repaid, Sold or
Cancelled                                      60.7 1/   0.6       61.3 1/
Total Commitments now held by IFC                   22.9      10.6       33.5
Total Undisbursed
VI Includes a $50.0 million loan managed by IFC on behalf of other
participants.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by agency to prepare the project:              12 months
(b) Agency which prepared the project:                       Water Authority of
Jordan (WA)
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank:                  November, 1984
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:                  November 23, 1985
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:                      March 19, 1986
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:                           October, 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. The WA to assist low-income families with appropriate arrangements for
sewer connections (para. 46).
2.  The WA to meet all operating and maintenance costs (excluding
depreciation), debt service or depreciation whichever is higher, and
adequate increases in working capital, from its water supply and sewerage
charges (para. 59).
3. The WA to provide the Bank, three months before the beginning of the
fiscal year, with copies of its forecast budget for the fiscal year,
financial projections for the following two years as well as proposals for
any adjustments in tariffs (para. 59).



I S  R  A  E  L                                                         S Y R I A N          A R A W
|~~~~%7                               ..Y                 o/                Z%IATARJ t\  */  **
-00"                                                                                                             .0 0 .  R   ?  kw  I   -  
Cf-_   E t S           9       m         m       S          I                  A       S   j^,,w,,,,,,,E__q
Kufrm Aar
5                                                        R      /  '- 0  M    A                      <WADIAJIS
/; -  :                  )         L              t                         J O R D A N~~LLA 
_     P / A         N Jec              nr
/ j ^. }}W Radt
OSAD                                       ~~~~J ORDAN
D3A                               {                j  +JORDAN  WATER  SUPPLY
SEA t   KAND SEWERAGE PROJECT
~~   ~ WATER SOURCES AND SUPPLIES TO MUNICIPAL SYSTEMS
Praleci cdties enio/r project areas
o Pump houses
*   Wells
Pipes
Roads
-Railways
*1  National capital
311                                                                   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Cities
.~.Rivers and wadis
K ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Mudf lots and wadi beds



-RailAaoys
|  K /             X                     ,/   D      /                          * e    National capital
(                             /                             0    Ci~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~tvers and wadis  3
,     A       /        Ag,;>    K          j                            -       Mudfltsand wadibeds
K/   1    X  A                  k' A                                            Governorate bounraries
Occupied territories
KIOV ETE11     IQ 1    0      3,0     40     so
/h b/k >)MILESO                                                                   Cio                      X
/   /                 M:,    A                 A           N
a- v- "M l&LC of -fl'0 w               OF ^CM ,,~ aI
< U **,@h - APli                                                  - A     r            _
SYRIAN ARAB                     I AO
REPUBLIC
30,           /                                                                                    0 
I RAEL
301-
C                                                                                                                                                                      00 
AOAOA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Mda.'h0ue                                                    '-



I  I    {' R    '1 /hid/                                                 gZarr
Ki                                                                    Stabill atlon Ponds
IN.~~~~I 
j  / - , d k -        I     I
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~ X -                                                    0(%%W7'\ I
BM A   L  ,< Q  /A                                                                  ASH
r?*$BA?'                                      %Vkl  ZARX
r i(Abu Nuseir Prolect
I~ ~ )                         
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Is~~s 
EIS  SUW'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ewg ratetWrk 5W
WORKS UN   T COR NSTUC TIN;
X~~~~~~~~~WD S!,7 GREATER AMMAN AREA|
*Seweage Tratmnt Swagte(1
t   A-  M Nf * U#orAt                                                 0
PROPOSED PVROATWRS
!    ,   s S lvt sA   wLANDA                     a  6" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Scwo Treatment Waft (STW)
,  SVwag Trmantmnt Wort (81W)
Major Trunk Mains



,_}          /                       ii           >  0 0                                                                             1l9NO(fl, AI    alid ,S1;11 I,0 91 i S0
S    - ~ ~ L   +;;  A, ,Er  S        /  )                                  Diaposal Systerns
PROPOSED PROJECT WORKS:
A- *'                                                                                                                 *   n  od.d fiOSewage Treatment Works (STW)
X "                                                                                                                     - i  \  \   \   )VMajor Trunk Mains
ABa  ALANDA                             PO POS  NON PROJECT WORKS
Dm-\'\  Sewage Treatment Works (STW)
-    -    Major Trunk Mains
JUWEI               $A                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~WORKS UNDER CONSTUCTiONd:
NAUPI    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~*                                Sewage Treatment Works (STW)
B  A   L 0   A                                                                                                0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Sewage Pumping Station
- Major Trunk Mains
re'                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING WORtKS.
Dm  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*Sewage Treatment Works (STW)
-Major Trunk Mains
\  Bulit-up Areas
*.....J .. Amman Municpality Boundary
Greater Amman Area Limits
-     ^ ~/  URailroad
-Roads
-,-RiversdWadis
-Govern~orate Boundaries
Occupied Territories
international Airport _                                       AlAS
r                                   ~~~~~~~~Area 
of map 
31~~~~~~~~~.2
AMM. AAN C
JOfiDAN\
M* rAM Owe's slat ekr.%                                                                                                                                                          SAUD, S     ASAKA 
Ce.w  Iobf F uava a                                                                                                                                     I
0- eS nw cmd AOd ru on \\t                                                                                                                                   !M. A'AN!_
hVwsI Fn Ccpmaw/ %                                                          5                  10\                      -_
of WV |Ur WV                                                                  Kilometers                                                                    I                                           _
_(   ISWYW k r I    Oi fI
AC" 400ofarl"                                                                                                                                                                                      I zJ^eMe'  I;-_  *XO  1!-  O
a



IBRD 19511
U. 0
=AMOKHAYYAM SUF
SUF                                                                                                  \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D/ARABIA
;~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0 -)                                           R D A N  1>
4 4      U 1t>o.
r-
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.i
DEIR-EL LIY YATAT'
|JARASH
JORDAN
JORDAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
JARASH AREA
Sewerage and Sewage Disposal Systems
Proposed       Existing
*             *            Sewage Treatment Works
-______ -       _____ -Trunk Mains                                                         _
Built-up Areas
a    400   am00 12          I M2000
motors
FAu e wr CM   uF de* iSW u. V  ttt W boffuis 3a  a7tn nfMM OD AIM'
ui.,. Ceorho t  '. du,aa. .M Jod t l Caideg VlOu t ~   lv t.s    iv
a- Au QMI SIkSW oOt nV Dery or WV b$crt7d or *ndarere of t   O
FEBRUARY 1956






