Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIClAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13838-JO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEKITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
JORDAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2694-JO)
MARCH 20, 1995
Infrastructure Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region
rhis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pasze No.
PREFACE  ................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY  .....................................
PART  I  Project Implementation Assessment
1. Introduction .
2. Project Objectives.                                                        2
3. Achievement of Objectives .2
4.  Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project    .5
5. Project Sustainability.                                                    5
6. Bank Performance.                                                          6
7. Borrower Performance.                                                      7
8. Assessment of Outcome.                                                     8
9. Future Operation.                                                          9
10.  Key  Lessons  Learned   ................................                 9
PART II  Statistical Annexes
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .12
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits .13
Table 3:  Project Timetable .14
Table 4:    Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .15
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation .16
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation .17
Table 7A: Studies Included in Project .18
Table 7B:   Project's Physical Components .....................  19
Table 8A:  Project Costs in Local Currency .20
Table 8B:   Project Costs in Foreign Currency .21
Table 8C: Project Financing .22
Table 8D:  Loan Categories ..... .      ....................... 22
Table 9A: Economic Costs and Benefits .23
Table 9B: Internal Rates of Return.                                          24
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .25
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ... .     .....  27
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .27
Table 13: Bank Missions .28
Table 14:   Financial Statements for the Water Authority of Jordan .29
Appendices:
A. Supervision/Completion Mission of June/July 1994 Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower's Final Evaluation Report on the Project
C. Borrower's Plan for the Operational Phase of the Project
D. Map - IBRD 26503
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Jordanian Dinar (JD) = 1,000 fils
Exchange Rates'
(Jordanian Dinar per US Dollar)
Official                     Market
Period                   End of Period                Period Average
1986                       2.9061                        2.8583
1987                       3.0395                        2.9522
1988                       2.0964                        2.6916
1989                       1.5432                        1.7532
1990                       1.5038                        1.5069
1991                        1.4815                       1.4689
1992                       1.4472                        1.4712
1993                        1.4205                       1.4434
June 1994                     1.4514                        1.4394
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Kilometer (km)                          =      0.62 mile
Square Kilometer (km2)                   -     0.386 square mile
Hectare (ha)                            =      2.47 acres
Meter (m)                               =      39.37 inches
Cubic Meter (m3)                        =      264 US Gallons
Cubic Meter per second (m3/sec)         =      22,800 US Gallons per day
Liter (1)                               =      0.264 US Gallons
Liter per second (1/sec)                =      22,800 US Gallons per day
Liter per capita per day (lcd)          =      0.246 US Gallons per capita per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASAL         -      Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
CIDA         -      Canadian International Development Agency
FY           -      Fiscal Year
IBRD         -      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR          -      Implementation Completion Report
IDA          -      International Development Association
GOJ          -      Government of Jordan
JVA          -      Jordan Valley Authority
KfW          -      Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
MCM          -      Million Cubic Meters
MOP          -      Ministry of Planning
O&M          -      Operations and Maintenance
SAR          -      Staff Appraisal Report
UFW          -      Unaccounted-for Water
USAID        -      United States Agency for International Development
WA           -      Water Authority of Jordan
WHO          -      World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
1/    Source: International Financial Statistics, International Monetary Fund



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
JORDAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 2694-JO)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Water Supply and Sewerage Project
in the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, for which Loan 2694-JO in the amount of US$50 million was
approved on May 15, 1986 and made effective on October 1, 1986.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1994, compared with the original closing date of December
31, 1992. It was fully disbursed, the last disbursement took place on August 9, 1994.
The ICR was prepared by Andrew Macoun and Suhail Jme'an, Infrastructure Division of the
Middle East & North Africa Region and reviewed by Alastair J. McKechnie (Division Chief) and
Gianni Brizzi (Projects Adviser). The beneficiary and implementing agency, the Water Authority
of Jordan, provided comments on behalf of the borrower, the Government of Jordan, that are
included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission, June
20 - July 7, 1994. It is based on material in the project file. The borrower contributed to
preparation of the ICR by contributing views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire, preparing their
own evaluation of the project's execution and initial preparation, and commenting on the draft ICR.






ii                                                                 Evaluation Summnary
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN 26944O
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
The project is the eighth water sector project in Jordan to be supported by IDA/IBRD financing.
The project was designed to support the Government's overall strategy, as described in a Water
Sector Study (Report 4699-JO) completed in January 1984. The project, in addition to financing of
water supply and sewerage facilities, continued the institutional development efforts started under
previous Bank loans, that included establishment of the project's Beneficiary - the Water Authority
(WA) of Jordan, and was targeted to benefit primarily low and middle income families.
The project, which was part of the Government's high priority program to improve water supply
and sewerage services in Jordan, included financing for construction and rehabilitation of water and
sewerage mains and facilities, sewage treatment works, equipment for O&M and consultant services
for construction supervision and special studies.
Previous projects in the sector have been satisfactorily implemented.  Although service
expansion has been the main focus of these efforts, the Bank has also supported institutional
development and operations and maintenance performance, but with significantly less success. The
main lessons identified were the need for better coordination in planning and execution, the particular
importance of reducing unaccounted-for water, and that institutional weaknesses remained,
particularly in financial performance.
Project Objectives
The project objectives were:
(i)  to assist the Government in developing an optimal investment plan for the water sector;
(ii)  to develop water resources management and conservation and water systems operation
procedures;
(iii)  to improve and extend water distribution and sewage collection systems;
(iv)  to augment present efforts to reduce unaccounted-for water;
(v)  to reduce groundwater pollution by the collection and treatment of sewage;
(vi)  to provide for recycling of treated effluents; and



Evaluation Summary                                                                      iii
(vii) to assist in the continuing development of the Water Authority.
Seven project objectives might be considered excessive but all were very relevant to the
identified priorities (under the Government's strategy) of better planning, conservation and
management, water service expansion, sewage collection, treatment and reuse, and institutional
development. The objectives as formulated were relatively broad as the underlying assumption was
that the project was not an isolated effort to achieve sector goals.  Particularly the software
components were designed to complement considerable other donor assistance and was but a step in
the desired direction, not an end in itself.
A number of loan covenants were agreed in support of project objectives:
(i)   Revenues should cover O&M costs plus debt service;
(ii)   Annual review of the adequacy of tariffs;
(iii) Monitoring indicators, progress reports; and
(iv)  If required, arrangements for low  income people to meet the price of sewerage
connections.
Implementation Experience and Results
Construction of the physical components was successfully carried out and the loan was fully
disbursed. Progress was initially well ahead of schedule but suffered beyond FY90 as a result of
the Gulf War and a particularly severe winter (Table 4). Although a 24 month extension was
proposed by the borrower and recorded as justified, only 18 months proved to be necessary and the
project was closed in 8 years and 1 month (Table 3). Physical construction quality was excellent
throughout. Project costs in both local (JD35.0m) and foreign ($80.7m) currencies were very close
to appraisal estimates (JD32.2m and $86.8m respectively) but the foreign cost component was rather
higher than estimated due to greater expenditure on equipment and materials (Tables 8A,B,D).
In contrast to the successful implementation of the project's physical components was the less
than satisfactory achievement in other areas. In particular, the financial covenant on annual review
of revenues and adequacy of tariffs was breached in each year of the project (Table 10), and is the
dominant factor in the "unsatisfactory" overall project implementation assessment (Table 1). Tariffs
have not kept pace with revenue needs and, for the majority of the population, are actually less at
the end of the project than at appraisal (in current terms - refer Appendix A, Annex 3, Table 3.1).
The monitoring criteria for the WA's operations, had they been submitted annually as agreed, would
have indicated a steadily deteriorating situation in terms of operational efficiency and cost recovery.
A consultant tariff study financed under the project was not accepted by Government, a planned
twinning arrangement did not proceed, an operation system study is still on-going, and water system
losses have significantly increased despite an extensive hydraulic analysis at an early stage of the
project to identify causes of unaccounted-for-water and rehabilitation needs (Table 7A).



iv                                                                    Evaluation Summary
Institutionally, the Water Authority of Jordan is a long way from the "administratively and
financially independent" agency envisaged by the 1988 Water Law.  Largely as a result of
Government decisions during project implementation, it is now encumbered by the Civil Service Act
that has undermined staff morale and efficiency, is critically dependent on continuing undefined
Government subsidies to remain viable, and is unable to meet customer service demands due to a
combination of inefficient performance (losses are in the order of 60%) and lack of water resources
(the bulk of available water is allocated to highly subsidized irrigation).
The failure to contain losses is a particularly stark short-coming. Reduction of unaccounted-for
water was one of the seven project objectives and is one of the main lessons derived from past
projects. Despite local success (rehabilitation in the Zarqa region did achieve marked reduction of
losses) and a study by highly competent international consultants, the present level of losses is
unsustainable under almost any circumstances, let alone in a country as arid as Jordan that also has
one of the highest cost structures because of the energy needed to transport and elevate water to the
main demand center of Amman/Zarqa. It is concluded that the two main factors that account for this
lack of success are: (i) inadequate design of explicit actions under the project; and (ii) failure to
incorporate water loss reduction as an internal and on-going program within the Water Authority.
A number of current rehabilitation projects are expected to contribute to a reduction in losses but not
bring them under control.
Bank supervision has been regular throughout the Project (Table 13). Although supervision
reported regularly the lack of compliance with loan covenants, the issue remained without adequate
corrective measures. Borrower performance has been satisfactory on the physical implementation
side but was lacking on policy aspects, particularly in compliance with loan covenants.
Finally, it should be recorded that the Water Authority has made significant strides in areas not
specifically addressed by the Project.  The recognition that wastewater is a resource and the
development of reuse schemes is particularly noteworthy.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN 26944O
PART I
Project Implementation Assessment
1. Introduction
1.1 The project is the eighth water sector project in Jordan to be supported by IDA/IBRD
financing.' The project was designed to support the Government's overall strategy, as described in
a Water Sector Study (Report 4699-JO) completed in January 1984, of: (i) proper allocation of
known water resources and new resource development; (ii) prudent water resource management by
strengthening the sector's institutional development; (iii) quantity and quality control of water and
wastewater; (iv) development of policies related to the reuse of wastewater; (v) development of
appropriate cost recovery and other financial policies; and (v) manpower planning and training. The
project continued the institutional development efforts started under previous Bank loans, that
included establishment of the project's Beneficiary - the Water Authority of Jordan, and was targeted
to benefit primarily low and middle income families. The focus, however, was mainly on physical
facilities to expand services.
1.2 The project, which was part of the Government's high priority program to improve water supply
and sewerage services in Jordan, included: (i) extension and rehabilitation of about 450km of water
mains; (ii) construction of one service reservoir and two pumping stations; (iii) construction and
extension of about 365km of trunk and collection sewers; (iv) construction of three, and extension
of two, sewage treatment works; (v) supply of equipment for works operation and maintenance and
water sources monitoring; and (vi) consultant services for engineering, construction supervision and
water supply systems control.
1.3 Previous projects in the sector have been satisfactorily implemented, several well ahead of
schedule, and have contributed significantly to the Government's impressive performance in
extending water and sewerage services. Service expansion has been the main recipient of IDA/Bank
financing but the Bank has also supported, with significantly less success, institutional development
and operations and maintenance performance. The main lessons learned from previous projects
(SAR para 1.12) were the need for better coordination in planning and execution, and the particular
importance of reducing unaccounted-for water in a largely water deficit situation. It was also noted
that while substantial efforts had gone into the institutional development of the Amman Water and
Sewerage Authority, weaknesses remained, particularly in its financial department.
1/ Lending operations in the sector started in 1961; total amounts lent by IDA and Bank are US$29.0 million and
US$127.0 million respectively (refer Table 2).



2                                                        Implementation Completion Report
2.  Project Objectives
2.1 The project objectives were:
(i)  to assist the Government in developing an optimal investment plan for the water sector;
(ii)  to develop water resources management and conservation and water systems operation
procedures;
(iii)  to improve and extend water distribution and sewage collection systems;
(iv)  to augment present efforts to reduce unaccounted-for water;
(v)  to reduce groundwater pollution by the collection and treatment of sewage;
(vi)  to provide for recycling of treated effluents; and
(vii)  to assist in the continuing development of the Water Authority.
2.2 There were no modifications made to the objectives during implementation. The objectives were
unambiguously stated and were certainly achievable at least to the extent projected in the SAR. In
the case of at least one objective, however, the augmentation of efforts to reduce unaccounted-for
water (UFW), the steps described in the SAR (2.14, 3.02) have clearly been inadequate to achieve
the expected outcome, given that the component causes of UFW were not clearly understood.
Although the objective was to augment other efforts, it became clear during imnplementation that
those efforts were inadequate, insufficient, or did not eventuate and that greater attention should
have been given to this issue.
2.3 Most effort, and most success, was devoted to achieving the physical objectives to improve and
extend water distribution and sewage collection and treatment systems, which also had the
Government's top priority. Despite shortcomings in other areas, the Government has been successful
in making these services widely available. The project was quite complex (7 objectives), but
appropriately set demanding objectives in areas other than construction of the physical infrastructure
with the objective of improving the efficiency and affordability of services.
3. Achievement of Objectives
Water Sector Investment Plan
3.1 The project has assisted the Water Authority to develop the capacity to plan and implement a
water sector investment plan within the framework of a water sector policy. A Secretariat has been
established within the Ministry of Water and Irrigation and the Government recently issued a Water
Sector Policy Framework. These are all positive developments to strengthen sector planning.



Implementation Completion Report                                                         3
Water Resources Management/Conservation and Development of Procedures
3.2 Considerable progress has been made in water resources management. Largely as a result of
negotiations of the subsequent Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL), the following actions
will be/have been taken: issue of groundwater licenses will be restricted to high priority industrial,
tourism and university projects with adequate management plans and within basin management plans;
a program to implement volumetric metering and control of all water production, supply and usage
is in place; a program to increase tariffs for irrigation water in the Jordan Valley to recover O&M
costs has been agreed; and contracts to utilize fossil groundwater from the Disi aquifer have either
been cancelled or are to be renegotiated. In addition, private industrial borehole owners now pay
a volumetric tax on all water extracted and groundwater protection units have been established in
each region.
Extend Water Distribution and Sewage Collection Systems
3.3 Water and sewerage services are now available to almost 100% and 45% respectively of the
urban population. This is a considerable achievement of the Government and the project continued
the significant contribution made by previous Bank lending for the expansion of services. Despite
the high cost of sewerage services, the water resources situation in Jordan results in a high
opportunity cost for water that justifies collection and reuse of wastewater.
Unaccounted-for Water Reduction
3.4 Of all the challenges facing the Water Authority none is more serious than controlling
unaccounted-for water, not only because of the loss of water in a water-short country, but also
because of its impact on the financial health of the Water Authority (para 5.1). This is not an easy
task and the project, despite some local improvements, was singularly unsuccessful in improving the
situation as losses ballooned from 45% of production at appraisal to over 60% before declining
slightly in 1993, in stark contrast to the ambitious goal of 25% losses in the SAR. This result is
neither surprising nor uncommon as augmentation of supplies increases the water pressure in the
distribution system, to which leakage is exponentially related. However consultant studies2 carried
out by the Water Authority could not even reach consensus on the principal causes of losses. All
indications are that: (a) insufficient accurate data is collected to enable diagnosis and monitoring of
unaccounted-for water; and (b) efforts to control losses have not been "internalized" with appropriate
staff, budgets and accountability to systematically approach the problem. The project did not make
provision to comprehensively address this problem, contributing mainly through network
rehabilitation and supply of meters, in view of the expectation of technical assistance and financing
of additional rehabilitation projects from other sources.
Groundwater Pollution/Sewage Treatment
3.5 The project provided substantial assistance in preventing environmental pollution from sewage
firstly through collection of wastewater in separate sewers and secondly by treatment of sewage prior
to discharge. The Government provides treatment to all collected sewage at 14 treatment plants and
has recently introduced the requirement that reclaimed wastewater be utilized through reuse
(generally irrigation) rather than discharge to receiving waters.
2/  Refer Table 7A.



4                                                            Implementation Completion Report
Recycling of Treated Wastewater
3.6 Although Jordan is poorly endowed with water resources, and present utilization of those
resources falls significantly short of both domestic and agricultural demand for water, the utilization
of treated wastewater has not yet been extensively developed. The project objective to provide for
recycling of effluent was designed to be achieved through the "discharge of treated effluent to natural
wadis (river beds) where they will either percolate into the groundwater or finally collect in
impoundments. By this process the water quality will naturally improve to the standard required for
most types of irrigation." (SAR 3.12). The project successfully achieved this objective in the case
of all sewerage projects financed. However, the policy reflects thinking at the time of project
preparation and a past negative experience in Jordan when sewage effluent resulted in an outbreak
of cholera. There does not appear to have been any significant re-evaluation of that policy based on
the WHO Guidelines for Wastewater Reuse in Agriculture and Aquaculture (1989), nor for the
Government to develop a strategy for the use of reclaimed wastewater.  A draft strategy under
preparation in 1993 has not yet been finalized.
3.7 In view of Jordan's critical water resources situation, it is imperative that wastewater be
recognized for what it is - a resource but an environmental hazard if not properly managed3. Rather
than the very conservative policy based on indirect reuse outlined above, an aggressive and
comprehensive strategy is needed to maximize the economic potential of wastewater4. It should also
be noted that the use of impoundments for storing treated or untreated wastewater usually has
environmental consequences. In the case of the King Talal Dam impoundment, water quality is
severely negatively affected by the wastewater from the Es Samra ponds that constitute approximately
40% of annual inflow. Nutrients in sewage result in the growth of green and blue-green algae with
a range of undesirable effects. The loss of water through evaporation from surface waters is also
significant (up to 12 mm/day), particularly as it is greatest at the time of year when irrigation
shortages are most acute.
Development of the Water Authority
3.8 The objective of institutional development of the Water Authority has not been achieved. In
fact, as a result of Government decision to centralize water sector agencies and to bring them under
the civil service provisions, institutional performance has deteriorated during the project. This could
not have been foreseen during project formulation. A study5 to address the deficiencies in the sector
institutional arrangements and formulate solutions was prepared and is now underway, with good
Government participation. The Government's Plan for Economic and Social Development 1993-97
provides an excellent framework and guidance for the study with emphasis on increased private
sector participation, rationalized pricing policy and restructuring public sector institutions undergoing
financial difficulties to improve efficiency and adopt commercial performance criteria.
3/  Wastewater flows represent only 6 % of the total water use in Jordan but the discharge of untreated wastewater
is a major polluter of other water resources.
4/  Israel is the only country in the region to utilize wastewater to a large extent (in excess of 80%).
5/ Structural Adjustment and Policy Support Study (SAPS) implemented by Deloitte Touche International
consultants to CIDA.



Implementation Comnpletion Report                                                    5
4. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
4.1 Project physical implementation was initially well ahead of expectations (Table 4) but factors
outside the Government's control, i.e. the Gulf War and a severe winter in 1991, resulted in an 18-
month extension of the completion date.
4.2 Minor delays were attributable to availability of counterpart funds due to an economic decline
during the late 80's along with the devaluation of the Jordanian Dinar. Some reallocation of
disbursements (Table 8D) was agreed to during project restructuring. This increased the proportion
of funding for goods and equipment over civil works, in order to accommodate the Government's
changed priorities which placed more emphasis on water supply and rehabilitation over sewerage and
sewage treatment (Table 7B).
4.3 The project covenant on tariff levels to recover O&M plus depreciation was not achieved,
primarily because of Government preference to subsidize debt servicing and allow for inefficiency
of service delivery rather than to assume the political risk of fully passing on costs to consumers.
However, tariff increases would still have been needed to meet the covenant even if efficiency were
improved to "acceptable" levels (paras. 4.4 and 5.1). Revenue has been significantly increased,
however, as a result of revisions to a number of charges and the introduction of a "resource tax" on
water abstractions from privately-owned industrial wells.
4.4 Among the factors subject to the control of the implementing agency, the use of technical
assistance for tariff analysis was ineffectual, and measures to reduce rising unaccounted-for water
were unsuccessful. In the latter case, specific mention should be made of the planned twinning with
Thames Water Authority that did not eventuate apparently because of lack of agreement over the
services to be provided, and the establishment of a special unit within the WA that has still not as
yet been functionally established. The WA has, however, made efforts to address its problems.
Negotiating donor support for rehabilitation of pipe networks has taken longer than expected but is
now showing positive results, and bill collection has improved partly as a result of the WA seeking
assistance from the Jordan Electricity Authority. Much remains to be done, however. A number
of important personnel appointments, and substantial technical assistance from GTZ and USAID,
provide some promise of future improvement.
5. Project Sustainability
5.1 Sustainability of those achievements generated in relation to the major objectives is considered
likely. In particular, given the good record of the WA in operating major facilities, there is little
doubt that the physical infrastructure will continue to be operated and maintained to provide the
services for which it was provided. However, the Water Authority itself does not appear to be
operating in a sustainable manner. Despite a positive trend recently, both the operating and the
working ratios still exceed unity (meaning that revenue does not meet expenses with (operating ratio)
and without (working ratio) provision for depreciation) and the Authority's total equity (capital,
retained earnings/deficits and reserves) is approaching zero. Financial restructuring and possibly
debt forgiveness, together with enhanced revenue and savings in expenditure, will be essential to
restore the Authority to financial health. Compared to other middle-income countries, Jordan already
has moderately high water tariffs as a result of the scarcity of water and the high cost structure of
delivering it to the major consumption centers. However, the average tariff of JD 0.3 per cubic



6                                                        Implementation Completion Report
meter is still well below the average cost of supply6 of JD 0.6 per cubic meter. Yet demand cannot
be satisfied because of inefficiencies (unaccounted-for water is in the order of 60% of water
supplied). Reducing unaccounted-for water from 60% to 25% through investments and improved
management systems would lead to almost a 100% increase in revenues to WA. Moreover,
allocation distortions allow precious groundwater to be used for low-value irrigation, and the larger
portion of total replenishable water resources to be provided at enormous subsidy to irrigation use
(irrigation water tariffs do not recover even operating expenses). This is not a sustainable use of the
nation's resources and will necessitate major adjustments in policy and water use in agriculture - a
process started under the ASAL approved by the Board in December 1994.
5.2 The rate of return calculated in the SAR, about 10%, used incremental revenues as a proxy for
consumers' willingness to pay for improved water supply and sewerage services, as often used in
similar projects. This approach has been used in Bank-financed public utility projects to calculate
an observable lower bound estimate of benefits and to assess the relations of tariff levels to
incremental costs. The ex-post rate of return based on incremental benefits was negative for this
project because the water and sewerage tariffs remained below the cost of supply -- for most
consumers, tariffs were actually less at the end of the project than at appraisal (even in current terms
- see Tables in Appendix A). However, an indicative economic rate of return for the water supply
components of the project can be estimated. Based on assumptions that: (a) the project increased
the amount of water arriving at consumer's taps by some small percentage (5 to 15 %); (b) the extra
water decreased by an equal volume the water previously bought from vendors; and (c) the savings
to consumers from not buying water from vendors was between JD I to JD 2 per cubic meter; the
project's economic rate of return for the water supply components (i.e. excluding the costs of
sewerage components) was calculated to lie between 6% and 31 % with a central estimate of 19%
(Tables 9A and 9B). The assumptions underlying this rate of return calculation are admittedly broad
and would need to be verified through consumer surveys but are almost certainly on the low side in
view of the conservative approach adopted. However, survey results from other countries also show
high willingness to pay for improved water supply. Consumers in Jordan certainly do pay substantial
amcunts for expensive tanker services and for rooftop storage tanks and booster pumps because of
the intermittent and low pressure of the reticulated supply.
5.3 This exercise only models the Project's water supply components. Also to be included in the
evaluation of Project benefits would be other external benefits, which are extremely difficult to
quantify, arising from improved sanitation such as favorable impact on general health conditions,
reduction in wastewater contamination of groundwater resources, and provision of treated wastewater
for irrigation and possibly other purposes.
6. Bank Performance
6.1 The performance of the Bank and the various staff associated with the project is rated as
satisfactory for identification and appraisal but deficient in preparation and supervision. As indicated
by the relatively few resources expended on preparation of the project (Table 12), the Bank clearly
placed greater emphasis on financing investments in facilities to provide service expansion than on
building institutional capacity and irnproving operations and maintenance performance. This was a
deficiency on the part of the institution, particularly in the light of experience with other past and
current projects, and project preparation was rated as deficient as a consequence. Furthermore,
6/  Refer Appendix A, Annex 3 for an analysis of costs, revenues and tariffs.



Implementation Completion Report                                                          7
reliance was placed on parallel technical assistance proposed by other agencies for institutional
strengthening. There was, however, no cross conditionality between the Bank's project and these
other initiatives, some of which did not proceed or were significantly delayed.
6.2 Supervision was regular (Table 13) but a stronger stance should have been taken on major
issues, principally the reduction in unaccounted-for water and the annual failure to meet the financial
covenant and borrower's rejection of the tariff study. There were always sufficient reasons provided
to convince supervision missions to continue with implementation, and the very satisfactory
expansion of services and benefits that resulted, in the expectation (and sometimes hope) of positive
developments in institutional development and financial performance. Supervision mission reports
did consistently draw these deficiencies to the attention of Bank management.
6.3 In view of the importance of cost recovery and sound financial performance, during
implementation of the project when it was apparent that the efficiency of the Water Authority's
performance had deteriorated, the Bank should have proposed a review of the project with a specific
focus on this problem. Unaccounted-for water losses were consistently reported to be around 56%
and showing no sign of improving. Bank missions may have been under the impression that most
losses were physical leakage and poor meters and that proposals for projects to rehabilitate old water
networks and replace meters would resolve the problem. The evidence to identify the main causes
of losses is still not conclusive but it appears now that physical losses are not the only major
contributor and that commercial losses resulting from inadequate records, billing and collection are
also excessive. The conclusion is unavoidable that an objective was set (appropriately) to "augment
efforts to reduce UFW", but that inadequate provision was made in the project design to achieve that
objective. Also, when it became apparent that the situation was deteriorating rather than improving,
action should have been taken to restructure the project to achieve the objective.
7. Borrower Performance
7.1 Borrower performance with covenant compliance and annual reporting were unsatisfactory as
the main covenant on cost recovery was not met (para. 4.3) and quarterly progress reports (SAR
3.28) were not provided on a regular basis. These major failures were symptomatic of serious
institutional deficiencies in the sector. The Water Authority is dependent on Ministerial direction
concerning tariff reviews, despite the clear provisions of the law under which it is constituted as an
administratively and financially independent agency. The failure to observe the covenant on tariff
reviews and cost recovery is therefore that of the Government rather than the implementing agency,
who in fact was very responsive and thorough in searching out all possible revenue enhancing
measures apart from tariff increases. Macroeconomic and sectoral policies have only recently been
well defined7 and apparent policies on tariffs, that the poor should have access and that conservation
should be encouraged, are not met to an acceptable extent.8 The borrower's frequent assertion that
consumers should not be burdened by higher tariffs as a result of the WA's inefficiency is at odds
7/ A Water Sector Framework was issued by Government only in September 1994 at the urging of, and with
considerable assistance from, Bank staff preparing the Agriculture Sector Assistance Loan.
8/  Refer Annex 3 of the June/July 1994 Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire on Tariffs and Cost Recovery.



8                                                         Implementation Completion Report
with their failure to redress those inefficiencies or to set in place a mechanism for doing so.9 As
noted in para. 4.3, "normal" efficiencies would still not enable full cost recovery to be achieved.
7.2 In contrast, performance by the WA with physical implementation was more than satisfactory
as shown in Table 4. Seventy percent of the loan was disbursed in the first 4 years but the Gulf War
in 1990 and subsequent constraints on Government counterpart budgets adversely affected
disbursements in subsequent years. An extension of two years was considered justified for the above
reasons and the severe 1991 winter. However, only an additional 18 months proved to be necessary
due again to the ability of the implementing agency in construction.
7.3 Individual project reporting which was the responsibility of contracted supervision consultants
was excellent. Annual reporting of project implementation and performance indicators however was
not provided as agreed (Table 6).
7.4 The Water Authority is familiar working with the Bank and other donors, a fact that was evident
during implementation of the project. There were no procurement disputes and, other than the delay
caused by external factors, physical implementation proceeded expeditiously and satisfactorily.
7.5 The financial performance of the WA, however, has deteriorated rapidly and is seriously
threatening its financial viability. During the period of project implementation, operating expenses
grew much more rapidly than revenue and as a result the operating gap widened from 18% of
operating revenues to about 100% over the 8-year period from 1986. The magnitude of this gap is
unlikely to close unless drastic actions are taken to improve the operating efficiency of the WA
through such measures as reducing expenditures (e.g. staffing reductions - see Table 6) and
enhancing revenue through reductions in commercial losses, unaccounted-for water, and tariff
increases.
7.6 The Ministry of Planning, which coordinates all foreign financing for public investments,
maintained an active interest in the project throughout and provided substantial assistance to Bank
supervision missions. The MOP has been very active in securing financial assistance for the WA.
7.7 It should also be recorded that Bank/Borrower relations were consistently good throughout the
project.
8. Assessment of Outcome
8.1 The overall assessment of the project is considered to be "unsatisfactory". This assessment was
discussed with relevant Government officials who, though disappointed, did not dispute the
assessment provided it was qualified, as it should be, by mention of the project's major
achievements. There is no doubt that considerable benefits will result from expanded water and
sewerage services and that the project contributed significantly to environmental improvement
through expanded wastewater collection and treatment. However, achievements with respect to the
following project objectives: an optimal investment plan; water resources management and
conservation; water systems operation procedures; reduction of unaccounted-for water; institutional
development of the Water Authority; and the covenants with respect to tariffs, were rated
9/  An Observation and Unaccounted-for Water Unit created under the direct management of the Secretary
General of the WA is still to be functionally established.



Implementation Completion Report                                                       9
unsatisfactory.  It was concluded that the satisfactory implementation of the physical components
of the project did not offset the inadequacy of achievements in these other areas, which should be
the main focus of any future project.
9. Future Operation
9.1 An operational plan was not a requirement of the project agreement. Nevertheless the borrower
has prepared a description of the plans for the future operation of the facilities constructed. Based
on current and past history, there is little doubt that the facilities will be adequately operated and
maintained and continue to provide sustained benefits throughout their effective working life,
provided the Water Authority improves its financial viability.
9.2 Since the facilities are integrated into the water and sewerage systems, it is not considered
necessary to monitor those improvements specifically. Of much more relevance are indicators of
overall sector performance and of the performance of the Water Authority itself. An extended list
of performance indicators has been provided to the WA (Table 6) who have indicated their intention
to gather the necessary data and publish the results in their annual report. The Bank should follow
up, through regular review as part of future operations, to encourage the WA to follow through on
this undertaking as regular performance monitoring and accountability are invariably associated with
efficient utility service providers.
9.3 If the Bank's Operation Evaluation Department (OED) is to carry out an impact evaluation, it
is suggested that the optimum timing would be within 12 months of the presentation of this report.
If so, the impact of the project would still be relatively recent, important institutional developments
would be under consideration, and the results would be available to be taken into account in
designing the next sector project.
10. Key Lessons Learned
10.1     The financial viability of the Water Authority deteriorated during implementation of the
project, despite a specific objective and legal covenant. A conclusion might therefore be drawn that
the regulatory framework and ownership of the public water and wastewater utility in Jordan are not
conducive to sound financial performance. Although the Government has a stated intention to
restructure public sector institutions to improve efficiency, eliminate subsidies, and increase
participation by the private sector, fundamental changes are likely to be needed in the institutional
and regulatory environment if these intentions are to be realized. Future Bank support should focus
on these reforms.
10.2      Of particular note is that despite being identified as a lesson of previous lending
operations, the project was not able to achieve any reduction in unaccounted-for water. Rather than
declining towards the target of 25%, losses actually increased to over 60% in 1992 before showing
some signs of improvement in the last two years. This experience is not unique and in fact was a
major finding of the OED's retrospective review of Bank lending in the water sector. In the case
of Jordan, the principal lesson appears to be that this problem cannot be solved through a project
approach and the use of specialist consultants working largely on their own. It must become an
internal, operational matter with appropriate staffing and budgeting, accountability, and regular
performance monitoring. The role of specialist consultants should be to complement such efforts,



10                                                         Implementation Completion Report
not substitute for them. It is also clearly a risk to rely on the provision of technical assistance that
is not directly linked to the project.
10.3      A third lesson drawn relates to the effectiveness of legal covenants. Although a covenant
might appear to provide good leverage for ensuring financial and institutional performance
improvements, it appears unlikely that non-compliance will result in suspension of disbursements -
the only effective option available to the Bank during supervision - if major sub-projects are being
irnplemented satisfactorily and are likely to produce economic, health and environmental benefits.
10.4      Key conclusions that might be drawn from implementation of the project are therefore:
(a)   in addition to financing physical facilities, equal emphasis should be given in project
design to building institutional capacity and improving operations and maintenance
performance;
(b)   financial viability of a utility is unlikely to be achieved within a traditional public
ownership and regulatory framework in Jordan;
(c)   improvements in performance efficiency through physical and commercial loss reduction
are unlikely to be achieved through technical assistance and rehabilitation of infrastructure
without an internal commitment of staff and a program to identify and control the various
causes of losses as an essential O&M activity; and
(d)   legal covenants in an investment project containing major sub-projects are an ineffective
instrument for ensuring financial and institutional performance unless the Bank is
prepared to give equal emphasis to institutional development as to physical
implementation.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN 2694-JO
PART II
Statistical Annexes
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7A:  Studies Included in Project
Table 7B:  Project's Physical Components
Table 8A:  Project Costs in Local Currency
Table 8B:  Project Costs in Foreign Currency
Table 8C:  Project Financing
Table 8D:  Loan Categories
Table 9A:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 9B:  Internal Rates of Return
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:   Bank Missions
Table 14:   Financial Statements for the Water Authority of Jordan



12                                                                               Implementation Completion Report
Table 1: Summary of Assessnents
Substantial    Partial   Nedligible           Not Applicable
A. Achievement of obiectives
Macroeconomic policies
Sector policies
Financial objectives
Institutional development                      I
Physical objectives               I
Poverty reduction
Gender concerns
Other social objectives           I
Environmental objectives          J
Public sector management                       I
Private sector development
Other
Substantial    Partial    Negligible          Not Applicable
B. Proiect sustainability                         J/
Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
C. Bank performance
Identification                                  I
Preparation                                                   I
Appraisal                                       V
Supervision                                                   I
Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
D. Borrower
performance
Preparation                                     J
Implementation
Covenant compliance                                           I
Operation                                       I
Hithly satisfacton    Satisfactorv    Unsatisfactory    Highly unsatisfactorv
E. Assessment of outcome                                            J



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                       13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                                   Purpose                           Approval      Status
Preceding operations
1. Second Amman Water Supply and   Expand and improve the water supply and sewerage networks   1973        Closed in
Sewerage Project                in Amman. Provide technical assistance for project                     1978.
(Credit 0385-JO; US$ 8.7 million   implementation supervision, training and development studies
equivalent)                      for Aqaba.
2. Third Amman Water Supply and     Expand water supply and sewerage services in Amman as part   1978      Closed in
Sewerage Project                 of the water authority's ongoing 1978-81 program. benefiting          1983.
(Credit 0780-JO; US$ 14.0       largely low income users. Provide technical assistance for
million equivalent)              project implementation supervision and training.
3. Zarqa/Ruseifa Water Supply and    Improve water supply and sewerage services as well as storm  1982     Closed in
Sewerage Project                 drainage in the Zarqa/Ruseifa conurbation through various              1989.
(Loan 2213-JO; USS 17.0 million)   physical investments. Provide technical assistance for project
implementation supervision and institutional development
efforts.
4. Eight Cities Water Supply and    Improve water supply service and provide new sewerage      1984        Closed in
Sewerage Project                 service in the cities of Ramtha, Mafraq, Anjara, Ajloun, Ein           1990.
(Loan 2425-JO; US$ 30.0 million)   Janneh, Kufrinja, Madaba and Ma'an through various physical
investments. Provide technical assistance for project
implementation supervision and follow dhrough institutional
development efforts of the previous Bank loan.
5. Greater Amman Water Supply and   Improve water supply and sewerage services in Greater      1985        Closed in
Sewerage Project                 Amman through various physical investments. Provide                    1991.
(Loan 2483-JO; US$ 30.0 million)  technical assistance for project implementation supervision and
continue institutional development efforts started under the two
previous Bank loans.
Following operations
1. A proposed water sector          The proposed project will focus primarily on improving the  Expected
development project.             operations of WAJ and augmenting water supply to Amman.    in FY97



14                                                                               Implementation Completion Report
Table 3: Project Timetable
[  I                I Date actual/latest
Steps in project cycle          |   Date planned           esimate
Identification (IEPS)                        NA                   03/85
Preparation'                                 NA                   04/85
Pre-appraisal'                               NA                   10/85
Appraisal'                                   NA                   11/85
Negotiations                                 03/862               03/86
Board Presentation                           05/862               05/86
Signing                                      06186                06186
Effectiveness                                10/86                10/86
Project Completion                           12/91                12/94
Loan Closing                                 12/92               06/94
Notes:
1. Mission dates.
2. Yellow cover SAR



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                     15
Table 4: Loan Disburse.uents: Cumulative Estinated and Actual
(US$ nillions)
I_FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90  | FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95
Appraisal estimate                  1.0      8.5       21.0     33.5     43.0     48.5      50.0     50.0     50.0
Actual                              10.6     23.6      26.9     35.1     38.3     41.3      45.0     48.9     50.0
Actual as percentage of estimate    1059     278      128       105      89       85        90       98        100
Date of final disbursement          August 9, 1994
Standard Disbursement Profiles
100......
0T                                                                   -      I  SAR Estimate
90 t,                             .,s              
80                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Actual Project
Disbursement
70                                                                   . . . . . . . Standard Profile for
WS&S Projects in Jordan
Cu
50 -         .                                                           - --- Standard Profile for all
Projects in Jordan
40 -       /        ,/  /                                             -    -    Standard Profile for
30      ,1/WS&S Projects for all
Regions
20 -    /       1                                                    -   - -    Standard Profile for all
10                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sector Projects for all
Regions
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21
Semesters after Approval



16                                                                            Implementation Completion Report
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Commencement 1 (month/year)           Completion2 (month/year)
Project components
SAR estimate3        Actual         SAR estimate3         Actual
A. Water supply                                     04/86                                12/91
Amman Water Project (3 contracts)                 NA               04/86              NA                08/87
North Water Project (4 contracts)                 NA               08/86              NA               08/91
Jerash Water Project                              NA               08/86              NA                10/87
Duhlail/Za'tari Water Project                     NA               08/86              NA               07/87
Middle Water Project (2 contracts)                NA               07/86              NA                10/90
Amman Water Project (4 contracts)                 NA               04/88              NA                11/90
Irbid Water Project                               NA               05/88              NA               08/88
Balqa Water Project                               NA               06/88              NA               08/88
Mafraq Water Project (2 contracts)                NA               04188              NA               05/91
Zarqa Water Project (4 contracts)                 NA               04/88              NA               04/93
South Water Project                               NA               10/88              NA               05/90
Yajouz Pumping Station                            NA               02/90              NA               04/92
Zarqa Reservoir                                   NA               06/91              NA               02/92
B. Sewerage                                         04/86                                03/91
Quaismeh Sewerage Project                         NA               02/85              NA               03/86
Salt Sewerage Project (2 contracts)               NA               07/86              NA                10/89
Amman Sewerage Project (6 contracts)              NA               03/86              NA                11/89
Jarash Sewerage Project                           NA               03/87              NA               03/88
Balqa Sewerage Project                            NA               08/88              NA               03/89
Ramtha Sewerage Project                          NA                02/88              NA               04/89
C. Sewage Treatment Works                           01/86                                03/91
Salt Wastewater Treatment Plant (extension)      NA                10/91              NA               08/94
Jarash Wastewater Treatment Plant (extension)     NA               08/91              NA                12/94
Notes:
1. Dates refer to start of design and preparation of tender documents.
2. Dates refer to completion of and handing over of works.
3. The SAR did not break down major components into subcomponents.
NA= Data not available.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                   17
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation'
1. Key operating indicators h SAR    1986      1987      1988      1989      1990     1991      1992      1993    1994
A. Technical
Water produced (MCMJyr)         134.63    150.49    164.77   170.24    177.63    178.61   208.23    218.50
Water sold (MCM/yr):            61.60     68.52     72.70    74.37      78.27     78.08    81.44     92.69
Domestic                                                                                75.99     88.19
Industrial                                                                              5.45      4.50
Other
Unaccounted-for water (%)       54        55        56       56         56        56       61        58
Water surcharged for sewerage                                                              37.39     44.02
(MCMJyr)
No. of water connections (1000)    364.3  399.7     422.5    441.4      460.1     474.7    497.6    528.1
No. of sewage connections (1000)   58.3   58.3      75.7      90.7      195.1     204.9    234.6    256.7
B. Financial and Institutional
Average revenue for water sold  0.246     0.237     0.222    0.228      0.197     0.206    0.227     0.235
(ID/rm3)
Average revenue for sewerage                                                               0.087     0.094
(JD/m3)
Operating expense/cubic meter of
water sold (JD)
Operating expense/cubic meter of
water surcharged for sewerage
(JD)
Accounts receivable at end of year
(1000 JD)
No. of employees                                                                  6489     6685      6745
Employees per connection                                                          9.1      9.1       8.6
(staff/1000 water + sewerage
connections)
Notes:
1. The SAR did not specify any targets for these indicators. The intention was to collect this information annually.
2. Data was not collected on regular basis.



18                                                                              Implementation Completion Report
Table 7A: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined at
Study                         appraisal/redefined            Status                         Impact of study
Hydraulic Analysis for        Determine distribution         Completed in 1987              All water supply network
Greater Amman (financed       efficiency and identify needed                                rehabilitation contracts in
under Loan)                   rehabilitation                                                Greater Ammnan were
prepared as part of the study's
output
Water Tariff (financed by     Propose a new water tariff     Completed in 1987              Study recommendations were
USAID)                                                                                      not accepted by the WA
Structural Adjustment and     define institutional           Draft Inception Report         Ongoing
Policy Support Study          restructuring requirements and    submitted in May 1994
(financed by CIDA)            strengthen policy capacity
Twinning Agreement with       Transfer of technology         Diagnostic Report submitted in   Not applicable
Thames Water International                                   1992. The arrangement did
(financed by ODA)                                            not proceed
Operation Management          To accompany investments       Ongoing, expected to be        Ongoing
System Study (financed by     financed by KfW for the        completed in 1998
GTZ)                          rehabilitation of the Anmman
water supply network



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                           19
Table 7B: Project's Physical Components
Physical components listed in the SAR (March 1986)       Physical components completed under the Project
A. Water supnly                                          A. Water supoly
Greater Amman Water Project                              Amman Water Project (3 contracts)
Salt Water Project                                       North Water Project (4 contracts)
Fuheis, Mahis and Naour Water Project                    Jarash Water Project
Yajouz, Al-Jubeiha and Abu Nuseir Water Project          Duhlail/Za'tari Water Project
Jarash Villages and Rageb Water Project                  Middle Water Project (2 contracts)
Amman Water Project (4 contracts)
Irbid Water Project
Balqa Water Project
Mafraq Water Project (2 contracts)
Zarqa Water Project (4 contracts)
South Water Project
Yajouz Pumping Station
Zarqa Reservoir
B. Sewerage                                              B. Sewerame
Greater Amman Sewerage Project                           Quaismeh Sewerage Project
Zarqa/Ruseifa Sewerage Project                           Salt Sewerage Project (2 contracts)
Fuheis, Mahis, Naour and Sukhneh Sewerage Project        Amman Sewerage Project (6 contracts)
Jerash Sewerage Project                                  Jarash Sewerage Project
Salt Sewerage Project                                    Balqa Sewerage Project
Aqaba Sewerage Project                                   Ramtha Sewerage Project
C. Sewage Treatment Works                                C. Sewage Treatrnent Works
Salt Wastewater Treatment Plant (extension)              Salt Wastewater Treatment Plant (extension)
Jarash Wastewater Treatment Plant (extension)            Jarash Wastewater Treatment Plant (extension)
Fuheis and Mahis WastewaterTreatment Plant
Naour Wastewater Treatment Plant
Sukneh Wastewater Treatment Plant



20                                                                             Implementation Completion Report
Table 8A: Project Costs in Local Currency
(all values in current thousand currency units)
SAR Estimates                              Actual Cost
Project Components                     Local         Foreign        Total         Local        Foreign        Total
JD           JD             JD            JD            JD            JD
I. Water Supply
1. Greater Amman region               2,844          6.583         9,427         3,117         4,948        8,065
2. Other regions                         169           390           559         1,818         3,357        5,176
Subtotal        3,013         6,973         9,986         4,935         8,305       13,240
11. Sewerage
1. Greater Amman region               4,476          4,441         8,917          736          2,814        3,551
2. Other regions                       2,107         2,090         4,196           135           236          371
Subtotal       6,583          6,531        13,113           872         3,050        3,922
III. Wastewater Treatment
1. Greater Amman region                1,573         2,897         4,470         1,315         2,176        3,491
2. Other regions                        270            498           768           989         1,640        2,629
Subtotal        1,843         3,395         5,239         2,304         3,817        6,120
IV.   Equipment                               0         3,166         3.166           741         10,183       10,924
V. Consultants' Services and Training       550           100           650             0           778           778
Grand Total       11,989        20,165        32,154         8,852        26,133        34,985



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                   21
Table 8B: Project Costs in Foreign Currency
(all values in current thousand currency units)
SAR Estimates (March 1986)                      Actual Cost
Project Components                    Local        Foreign        Total        Local        Foreign       Total
US$          USS           US$           US$          USS           US$
1. Water Supply
1. Greater Amman region              7,679        17,774        25,453        7,191        11,417       18,608
2. Other regions                       456         1,053         1,509        4,196         7,747       11,942
Subtotal       8,135        18,827       26,962        11,387        19,164       30,551
B. Sewerage
1. Greater Amman region             12,085        11,991        24,076        1,699         6,494        8,193
2. Other regions                     5,688         5,642        11,329          312           545          857
Subtotal      17,773        17,632       35,405         2,012         7,038        9,050
III. Wastewater Treatment
1. Greater Amman region              4,247         7,823        12,070        3,035         5,021        8,055
2. Other regions                       730          1,345        2,075         2,282        3,785        6,067
Subtotal       4,977         9,168        14,144        5,317         8,805       14,122
IV.   Equipment                              0         8,548        8,548         1,710        23,496       25,206
V. Consultants' Services and Training    1,485          270          1,755            0         1,795        1,795
Grand Total      32,370        54,445        86,815       20,426        60,299       80,724
Notes:
US$ values for actual costs were converted at a weighted average exchange rate of US$ 2.3074 per JD.



22                                                                             Inmlementation Completion Report
Table 8C: Project Financing
(all values in current million currency units)
SAR Estimates (March 1986)                           Actual Cost
Project Components          Local       Foreign           Total            Local       Foreign           Total
costs      costs                              costs       costs
USS        US$         US$         (%)        USS         US$         USS        (%)
IBRD                              0        50.0        50.0         58           0        50.0        50.0         62
Government of Jordan            32.4        4.4        36.8         42        20.4        10.3        30.7         38
TOTAL         32.4        54.4        86.8        100        20.4        60.3        80.7       100
Table 8D: Loan Categories
(all values in current million currency units)
SAR Estimate (March 1986)                     Actual
Loan Category
l ___________________           USS                (%)               USS                (%)
1. Works                            30.7                61               26.2                52
2. Equipment and                    14.0                 28               19.5                39
Material (including
installation)
3. Consultants' Services             1.8                  4                4.3                 9
and Training                                                                                  l
4. Unallocated                       3.5                  7                 0                  0
TOTAL               50.0                100               50.0               100



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                     23
Table 9A: Economic Costs and Benefits
(All figures in JD unless otherwise shown)
Governorate         Years          1 st Year       Last Year       Increase
I____I ____ T___    (MM3)           (MM3)           (MM3)
Amman              87 - 92              68.221           98.31          30.089
Zarqa               88 - 93              14.699         25.557           10.858
Irbid              88 - 91              30.027          30.343           0.3 16
Mafraq              88 - 91              13.392          13.748          0.356
Balqa               88 -89               10.332          13.114          2.782
Ma'an               87 - 90              14.489          15.875           1.386
Total                    45.787
Total WS Components (JD)                             21,433.000
Vendor Price (JD)                                           1.6
Percent displacing vendors                                0.15
Year          Percent         Annual           Benefit        Annual           Annual           Total           Net
Disbursed       Disburse.                       Cap Cost       O&M Cost           Costs          Benefit
1986                  0.1            0.10               0       2,143,300          21,433       2,164.733      -2,164,733
1987                 0.42            0.32               0       6,858,560          90,019       6,948.579      -6,948,579
1988                 0.52            0.10               0       2,143,300         111,452       2,254,752      -2,254,752
1989                 0.59            0.07          667680        1,500,310        126.455        1,626.765       -959,085
1990                 0.74            0.15         1000320       3,214,950         158,604       3,373,554      -2,373.234
1991                 0.78            0.04         1161600         857,320         167,177        1,024,497        137,103
1992                 0.85            0.07         8382960        1.500,310        182,181        1,682,491      6.700,470
1993                 0.95            0.10        10988880       2.143,300         203,614       2,346,914       8.641,967
1994                    1            0.05        10988880       1,071,650         214,330        1,285,980      9,702,900
1995                                             10988880                         214,330         214,330      10,774,550
1996                                             10988880                         214,330         214,330      10,774.550
1997                                             10988880                         214,330         214,330      10,774,550
1998                                             10988880                         214,330         214,330      10,774.550
1999                                             10988880                         214,330         214,330      10,774,550
2000                                             10988880                        1214,330         24,330       10,774,550
2001                                             10988880                         214,330         214,330      10,774,550
2002                                             10988880                         214,330         214.330      10,774,550
2003                                             10988880                         214,330         214,330      10,774,550
2004                                             10988880                         214,330         214,330      10,774,550
2005                                             10988880                         214,330         214,330      10,774,550
2006                                             10988880                         214,330         214,330      10,774,550
2007                                             10988880                         214,330         214,330      10,774.550
2008                                             10988880                         214,330         214,330      10.774.550
2009                                             10988880                         214,330         214,330      10,774,550
2010                                             10988880                         214,330         214,330      10,774.550
2011                                             10988880                         214,330         214,330      10,774,550
npv                         ().1 $36,783.230.31
irr                                 27.10463 



24                                                                                   Implementation Completion Report
Table 9B: Internal Rates of Return at Various Vendor Prices
and Replaced Purchase Percentages
Vendor Purchases               Vendor Price           Internal
Replaced                      (JD/m3)              Rate
(Percent)                                        of Return
15                          2.00                 31
15                          1.60                 27
15                          1.00                 19
5                           2.00                 1
5                           1.60                 1 1
5                           1.00                  6
Assumptions:
1.              Because of its emphasis on system rehabilitation, the Project's water supply components
increased the amount of water ariving at consumer's taps by some small percentage (5 to 15%).
2.              All of the extra water arriving at consumer's taps as a result of the Project was used to decrease
water previously bought from vendors.
3.              The price of water purchased from vendors was between JD I and JD 2 per cubic meter.



Implementation Comnpletion Report                                                                                                                             25
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement:                                 Project Agreement
Section:                                   4.02(a)
Covenant lType:                            F
Status: ACT
Original Fulfillment Date:                 06/88
Revised Fulfillment Date.
Description of Covenant                    Revenues should cover O&M  plus debt service plus working capital.
Comments:                                  Not complied with: even though measures to increase revenue by almost 20%  have been enacted.
.............................................................   ..........................................................................................
Agreement:                                 Project Agreement
Section:                                   4.02(c)
Covenant Type:                             F
Status: OK
Original Fulfillment Date:                  10/86
Revised Fulfillment Date7
Description of Covenant                    Periodic review  of adequacy of tariff.
Comments:                                  Review  done; tariffs inadequate.
Agreement                                  Project Agreement
Section:                                   4.02(c)
Covenant Type:                             F
Status: OK
Original Fulfillment Date:                  10/87
Revised Fulfillnent Date:
Description of Covenant                    Periodic review  of adequacy of tariff.
Comments:                                  Review done; tariffs inadequate
......   ....  ......................................................................................................................
Agreement:                                 Project Agreement
Section:                                   4.02(c)
Covenant Type:                             F
Status: OK
Original Fulfillment Date:                  11/88
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant                    Periodic review  of adequacy of tariff.
Comments:                                  Review  done; tariffs inadequate
...............................................................................................................................
Agreenient:                                Project Agreement
Section:                                   4.02(c)
Covenant Type:                             F
Status: OK
Original Fulfillment Date:                  11/89
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant                    Periodic review  of adequacy of tariff.
Comments:                                  Review  done.  Tariffs inadequate.  Government rejected a request for tariff increase.



26                                                                                     Implementation Completion Report
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Agreement:                          Project Agreement
Section:                            4.02(c)
Covenant Type:                      F
Status: OK
Original Fulfillment Date:          11/90
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant             Periodic review of adequacy of tariff.
Comments:                           Review done. Tariffs adjusted 22% effective October 1990; however, tariff still inadequate to meet
the financial covenant.
...............................................................................................................................
Agreement:                          Project Agreement
Section:                            4.02(c)
Covenant Type:                      F
Status: OK
Original Fulfilment Date:           11/91
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant             Periodic review of adequacy of tariff.
Comments:                           Review done. Sewerage tariffs increased to be effective in October 1991; a 10% to 15% revenue
increase is expected in 1992 as compared with 1991 revenues which is inadequate to meet the financial
covenant.
...............................................................................................................................
Agreement:                          Project Agreement
Section:                            4.02(c)
Covenant Type:                      F
Status: OK
Original Fulfillment Date:          11/92
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant             Periodic review of adequacy of tariff.
Comments:                           Review done during Dec. 1992 Bank mission. Implementing agency got Government's approval of
20% revenue increase. However, expected revenue increase inadequate to meet funancial covenant.
Agreement:                          Project Agreement
Section:                            4.02(c)
Covenant Type:                      F
Status: OK
Original Fulfillment Date:          11/93
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant             Periodic review of adequacy of tariff.
Comments:                           Review done during Dec. 1993 Bank mission. Implementing agency got Government's approval for
increasing a variety of fees (representing about 21 % of 1992 total revenue). However, expected
revenue increase inadequate to meet financial covenant.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                       27
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There is no evidence of non-compliance
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(in staffweeks)
Stage of Project Cycle   Planned         Revised        Actual
Through appraisal        N/A             N/A             10.5
Appraisal-Board          N/A             N/A            23.7
Board-Effectiveness      N/A             N/A             3.7
Supervision              76.5            94.6           93.5
Completion               8.0             10.8           6.7 =
TOTAL
N/A  = Not available
1/ Actual to 9/30/94: 2.8 s.w. (FY94
3.9 s.w. (FY95)
6.7



28                                                                                Implementation Completion Report
Table 13: Bank Missions
Ratng
Mission         Month    No. of    Days                                         Staff      Types of problems
l   /Year    staff  in      Implementation    Development   Speciali
l  field     status          impact        -zation
Through appraisal      =         =         =
Preparation          04/85    2          13
Pre-appraisal        10/85    2         20
Appraisal            11/85    2         7
Board Approval
through
effectiveness
Supervision"'        05/86    3          15       1                 1
Supervision "'       09/86    2         7         1
Effectiveness
through completion
Supervision"'        04/87    2         21 'l)                      1
Supervision"'        11/87     1         17       2                 1               FA
Supervision"'        04(88    2          12       2                 1               FA, SE    Revenue covenants
not met since 1986
Supervision")        01/89    4         28 (2     2                  1              FA, SE
Supervision"'        10/89     1         14       2                 1               SE
Supervision")        02/90     1        25        NR                NR              FA
Supervision          05/90    5         20        2                 1               FA,
SE,
I  PUS
Supervision          05/91     1        7         3                 1               SE         Lack of counterpart
funds
Supervision          11/91    2          14(2)    3                 1               FA, SE    Revenue covenant
not met despite tariff
Iincrease
Supervision          08/92     1        6''      3                 2               SE
Supervision          12/92     I         15       3                 2               SE         Revenue covenant
not met despite tariff
increase
Supervision          11/93    2         7         2                 2               SE, FA    Revenue covenant
not met despite
increase in fees
Supervision&"        04/94     I        2         NR                NR              SE
Supervision/         06/94    2          18       2                 2               SE, FA
completion")
Notes:
(1) Mission covered supervision of other projects.   NR   =  Not reported/not rated
(2) Mission members did not overlap.            SE        =  Sanitary Engineer
(3) Data incomplete.                            FA        =  Financial Analyst
PUS      =  Public Utiliy Specialist



Water Authoity's Income Statement                             _
1985       1986        1987       1988        1989         1990        1991         1992        1993
REVENUE
Operating Revenues:
Water Revenue                              14,393.6    15,123.9    16,259.7    16,159.8    16,980.7   15,419.9     16,096.5     18,464.5    21,805.3
Water Revenue (by tankers)                    284.1      260.7       208.6       224.9      196.9        190.7       241.2        185.3       243.6                         O
Sewerage and Drainage Revenue                413.5       485.2       768.5      829.0       900.4        982.4      1,581.2     3,380.9      4,324.8
Sewerage Tax                                2,922.4     2,496.6    3,183.6     3,484.1     3,334.6     2,500.0      3,717.4     4,056.3      4,170.7                        Q
Subscripton, Maintenance and Connection fees  1,471.2   1,364.2    1,424.7     2,725.1     2,283.4     2,245.5      1,648.0     1,608.0      3,754.9
Total Operating Revenue    19,484.9    19,730.6    21,845.0    23,423.0    23,696.1  21,338.6  23,284.4     27,695.1    34,299.2
Non-Operating Revenues:                                                                                                                                        I            O
Interest Income                               10.1        20.7         4.8      401.1       518.6        384.8       530.6        128.2       132.6
Other Revenue                                353.3       897.0       753.8      767.8       347.6        198.7       538.7         16.3       392.5
Govemment Operating Subsidy                    0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          00          0.0
Total Revenue    19,848.3    20,648.2    22,603.6    24,591.8    24,562.2  21,922.1    24,353.7     27,839.6    34,824.3
EXPENSES
Operating Expenses:
Working Expenses:                                                                                                                                         c  
Salariesand Wages                           8,822.2     9,4279     9,568.6     9,862.3    10,516.4    11,086.7     13,509.5    13,316.7     15,218.3      e 0 3
O&M                                         9,571.0    10,858 1    10,118.8    13,723.8    12,527.1   13,166.1     16,605.4    19,057.2     19,017.3
G&A                                         1,914.1     2,672.5    1,690.6     1,347.2     1,741.2       671.9       572.8        453.8       497.5        , a
Total WorkingExpenses    20,307.3    22,958.5    21,378.0    24,933.2    24,784.6  24,924.7    30,687.7    32,827.7     34,733.1        3
Working Income    (822.4)   (3,227.9)     467.1    (1,510.2)    (1,088.5)    (3.586 0)    (7,403.3)    (5,132.7)   (433.8)        -
Depreciation                                2,682.2     5,623.9    6,023.6     6,686.8    11,153.2    15,379.1     21,679.6    22,332.1     24,388.3
Total Operating Expenses    22,989.5    28,582.4    27,401.6    31,620.0    35,937.9  40,303.7  52,367.3    55,159.8     59,121.3           >
Operating Income    (3,504.6)   (8,851.8)    (5,556.5)    (8,197.1)   (12,241.8)   (18,965.1)   (29,082.9)   (27,464.8)   (24,822.1)  o
Non-Operating Expenses:
Interest                                    3,271.9     4,400.7    4,360.9     5,432.8     7,544.8     8,868.8      7,490.2    11,638.8     12,043.9
Exchange Rate and other Adjustments            0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0      7,867.0     8,693.4      3,555.7     3,214.0      2,226.9
Total Non-Operating Expenses  3,271.9   4,400.7     4,360.9     5,432.8    15,411.8    17,562.2     11,046.0    15,052.8     14,270.8
Net Income    (6,413.0)   (12,334.8)    (9,15869)   (12 ,461 0)  (26,787.4)   (35,943.9)   (39,059 6)   (42,373.0)   (38.567.8)
Accumulated Deficit  (14,015.2)   (26.350,0)   (35,508.9)   (47,969.9)   (74,757.3)   (110,701.1)   (149,760.7)  (192,133.7)   (230,701.5)
Operating Ratio                                1.18       1.45        1.25        1.35       1.52         1.89        2.25         1.99        1.72
Working Rato                                   1.04       1.16        0.98        1.06       1.05         1.17        1.32         1.19        1.01
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                  (0.25)       (0.51)      0.03       (0.06)      (0.04)      (0.10')     (0.24)       (0.15)      (0.03)



Water Authonty's Balance Sheet
1985       1986        1987        1988        1989         1990         1991        1992         1993
ASSETS
Current Assets:
Cash                                          188.8       284.4       192.3     3,212.0     2,929.8      4,424.1      4,081.6     4,099.6      1,628.9
NetAccounts Receivable                       8,385.4    10,095.4    8,840.0    11,752.3    12,210.4     14,103.4     11,798.4    16,535.5     14,962.1
Total Current Assets    8,574.2    10,379.8  9,032.3    14,964.3    15,140.2     18,527.4    15,880.0     20,635.1     16,591.0
Fixed Assets:
Gross Fixed Assets (at cost)               174,639.8   193,508.6   217,013.2   229,270.0   305,070.7    344,803.6    449,335.0    477,354.8    526,154.4
Less Depreciabon                            10,504.9    16,128.7    22,152.3    28,839.2    39,992.4    55,371.5     84,489.1    106,821.2    131,209.5
Net Fixed Assets  164,134.9   177,379.9   194,860.9   200,430.8   265,078.2    289,432.1    364,845.8    370,533.5    394,944.9
Other Non-Current Assets:
Work-in-progress                            44,540.2    79,716.1    90,788.0   103,400.9    42,278.0    21,694.4     33,045.7    42,503.8     49,738.0
Inventory                                    1,353.3    3,394.2     7,198.8     5,628.2     5,210.8      7,583.4      9,265.9    11,658.1     11,816.2
Micsellaneous Debtors                        1,761.8     2,370.9      225.6     1,012.9       336.9       876.9        976.0      2,486.4      2,733.2
Others (Prepayments, FX Differences)           40.4       368.4       330.4        78.3    83,134.4     82,700.9         0.0          0.0         0.0
Total Non-current Assets   47,695.7    85,849.5    98,542.8   110,120.3   130,960.1    112,855.7  43,287.6   56,648.2     64,287.4           3
TotalAssets  220,404.8   273,809.2   302,435.9   325,515.3   411,178.5    420,815.2    424,013.5    447,816.8    475,823.3    c
EQUITY & LIABILITIES                                                                                                                                        sr
Equity:                                                                                                                                                        o
Capital                                    130,618.9   164,708.0   188,244.6   211,439.5   221,946.2    233,541.7    249,534.4    271,022.3    296,414.4
Retained Earnings (Accumulated Deficit)    (14,015.2)   (26,350.0)   (35,508.9)   (47,969.9)   (74,757.3)   (110,701.1)   (149,760.7)  (192,133.7)   (230,698.5)
Reserve                                      1,500.0     1,500.0    1,500.0     1,500.0     1,473.0      1,472.8      1,462.7     1,462.7      1,462.7           >
Total Equity   118,103.7   139,858.0   154,235.7   164,969.6   148,661.9    124,313.4    101,236.5  80,351.3    67,178.6
Liabilities:                                                                                                                                                     :1.
Long-term Debt:
Foreign Currency Loans                      35,388.8    59,059.6    72,393.0    75,861.3   145,642.5    147,049.3    141,044.6    134,234 0  127,344.8
Local Currency Loans                        27,983.7    26,895.0    23,393.4    20,565.5    21,904.8    17,796.6     21,683.0    39,531 7     56,598.0
Bonds                                       17,150.0    17,150.0    15,150.0    15,150.0    15,325.0    15,325.0     21,325.0    21,325.0     21,325.0           a
Total Long-term Debt   80,522.4   103,104.6   110,936.5   111,576.8   182,872.3    180,170.9    184,052.6    195,090.7    205,267.8       o
Current Liabilities:
Current Portions of LTD                      2,976.2     7,789.4    16,819.4    24,150.6    57,626.5    84,427.8    109,170.2    133,533.1    158,133.6
Bank Loans                                   7,302.2    5,753.3     3,617.4     7,294.3     6,254.9      7,624.7      6,743.0     6,702.2      7,271.2
Accounts Payable                              308.2       641.7       257.4       257.4       257.4      5,385.3       257.4      6,367.0      9,065.3
Retentions                                   2,492.8    5,926.1     4,492.5       618.3       706.8       900.4        861.4      1,612.4      2,790.0
Customers' Deposits                          8,541.4    10,378.1    11,920.2    16,543.9    14,706.1    17,899.9     21,599.7    24,068.1     26,047.9
Others (includes Pension Fund)               154.839     154.839     153.998     101.596     89.721       89.721       89 721      89.029       89.0291
Total Current Liabilities    21,775.7    30,643.5    37,260.8    48,966.0    79,641.3    116,327.9    138,721.4    172,371.8    203,396.9
Total Equity and Liabilities   220,401.8   273,606.1   302,432.9   325,512.3   411,175.5    420,812.2    424,010.5    447,813.8    475,843.3



Inplementation Completion Report                                                   31
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN 2694-JO
Appendices
Appendix A.          Supervision/Completion Mission of June/July 1994 Aide-memoire
Appendix B.          Borrower's Final Evaluation Report on the Project
Appendix C.          Borrower's Plan for the Operational Phase of the Project
Appendix D.          Map - IBRD 26503






- 32 -
APPENDIX A






- 33 -
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
JORDAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2694-JO)
SUPERVISION MISSION OF JUNE-JULY, 1994
AIDE-MEMOIRE
Introduction
1.    A World Bank Infrastructure Mission (the Mission) consisting of Andrew Macoun, Sanitary
Engineer, and Suhail Jme'an, Financial Analyst, visited Jordan within the period June 21 to July 13,
1994. Mr Alastair McKechnie, Infrastructure Division Chief, and Ms Zeina Samara, Disbursement
Analyst, joined the mission briefly. The objectives of the Mission were: (i) to carry out final supervision
of the implementation of Loan 2694-JO Water Supply and Sewerage Project prior to its closing on June
30, 1994; (ii) to agree on proposals for sector strategy work over the coming year; and (iii) to consider
future needs of the Government for investment support to implement their program of water sector
infrastructure projects. To this end the mission met with Mr. Nabil Sweiss, Assistant Secretary-
General, and Eng. Boulos Kafaya, Director of Infrastructure Division, of the Ministry of Planning (MOP);
Eng. Koussai A. Quteishat, Secretary-General, and Eng. Nawwaf Daoud, Assistant Secretary-General
Projects, of the Water Authority of Jordan (WA); Eng. Bani Hani, Secretary-General of the Ministry of
Water and Irrigation; and staff of the Water Authority and of the Ministry of Water and Irrigation
(MOWI). The Mission wishes to thank the above-mentioned Government officials for their hospitality
and assistance during its stay in the country, and Eng. Othman Al-Kurdi, Head of Tenders Division,
WA, for his considerable cooperation and assistance
2.    A summary of the Mission's findings and agreements reached in principle with Government
officials follows. The agreements are subject to Bank management's approval upon the Mission's
return to Washington and will be confirmed in writing.
Supervision of Loan 2694-JO
3.     Project Data Update An update of key project data and its comparison with the appraisal
estimate is given below:
Key Project Data             Appraisal Estimate             Current Estimate
Project Cost                 US$ 86.9 million or            US$ 80.7 million or
JD 32.2 million               JD 35.5 million
Completion Date              December 31, 1991              December 31, 1994
Disbursement Categories:     (in US$ million)               (in US$ million)(05/24/94)
Civil Works                 30.7                          25.2
Equipment                   14.0                          18.8
Consultants Services         5.3                          4.3
Total                       50.0                          48.3
Outstanding Commitments                                     US$ 1.7 million
Balance                                                    0



- 34 -
Procurement and Disbursements
4.     The Mission agreed, in principle, to a request by WA to be reimbursed for two goods
procurement contracts financed from WA's own resources with total value of JD 936,050 (US$
1,357,000). These two procurement contracts fall within the scope of the project agreement and were
procured in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines (see Annex 2). The WA furnished the
Mission with the following items: (i) evidence of complying with Bank's procurement guidelines; (ii) the
decisions of the tender committee to award the two contracts; (iii) two conformed copies of the
procurement contract agreements; (iii) evidence of payments for these goods; and, (iv) evidence that
the goods in question have been duly delivered to the WA. The Mission has no objection to
retrosepective financing of the two contracts and the WA may prepare and submit a withdrawal
application for these goods for disbursement from the loan proceeds under category 2. It is expected
that the loan will be fully disbursed by the end of the grace period on October 31, 1994.
Loan 2694-JO Closure - ImDlementation Completion Report
5.     As a normal requirement of loan closure, the Mission commenced the preparation of an
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the above project'. The assessment of the Mission was
that, although performance with physical implementation of the project was satisfactory and coverage
of both water and sewerage services had expanded considerably, the sectoral and financial objectives
of the project had not been met to a significant extent and the Borrower had been unable to meet
financial covenants, leading to a less than satisfactory overall assessment. In particular, the situation
with regard to tariffs and cost-recovery, the efficiency of water delivery, the financial and administrative
situation of the Borrower, and the gap between summer demand and supply had all deteriorated since
the project was prepared. The Water Authority is now in an extremely precarious financial situation2,
dependent on the Government for subsidies to remain viable3, and unable to meet the demands of its
customers during the summer months. The Mission therefore stressed the importance of developing
a sector strategy to address the root causes of the current situation, as the cost of water from future
projects will rise significantly, adding further to the financial deficits and jeopardizing the sustainability
of essential services.
Achievement of Project Objectives and Covenants
6.     The Project ICR would address in detail the extent to which the Project objectives and
covenants had been met. Brief mention is made here particularly of those items which appear not to
have been achieved to a satisfactory extent: tariff adjustments to achieve cost recovery; reduction of
unaccounted-for water; water resources management and conservation; and development of the WA.
In some cases the provision made in the Project design was insufficient to achieve the objective. This
was particularly the case with wastewater reuse where the Government has never-the-less made
impressive progress.
1/     The ICR supersedes the Bank's previous requirement for a Project Completion Report (PCR). The ICR gives
rather more emphasis to the sustainability of services provided by the infrastructure financed under the loan, and provides
the Borrower greater opportunity to contribute to the preparation and finalization of the report.
2/     During the period from 1985 to 1993, WA's operating expenses, which grew at an average annual rate of 13%,
outstripped its operating revenues, which grew at an average annual rate of only 5%, and as a result the operating gap has
widened from 18% of the operating revenues to about 100%. Moreover, WA's accumulated deficits are rapidly eroding its
equity (accumulated deficits are about 78% of total equity). Annex 4, presents a summary of WA's financial position.
3/     The extent of Govemment subsidies to WA are not very clear, however, they include: (i) repayment of
international debts (about JD 24 million including both principal and interest); (ii) providing grants and soft loans; and (iii)
providing loan guarantees for local borrowing.



- 35 -
Revenue Increase, Tariffs and Financial Performance of WA
7.     The annual financial covenant to raise tariffs to recover O&M, the greater of debt service or
depreciation plus a percentage of capital requirements has not been met in any of the eight years of
the project. Despite a tariff increase in 1991 and changes to various charges in late 1993, the WA has
never been in a worse financial situation, whereas consumers pay less today than they did at the
beginning of the project - for the great majority of consumers less in current terms. Annex 3 outlines
pertinent financial data, the extent of consumer subsidies and tariff comparisons. Shortages of water
and supply restrictions have never been worse and the marginal cost of the next major development
(Disi) may approach the current highest tariff block in Greater Amman (600 fils/m3 for consumption
exceeding 100 m3/quarter). The cost to consumers is high. Residential customers pay substantial
amounts for ground and roof tanks to store water and pumps for periods of non-supply, and industrial
production must suffer economically through the unavailability of water, even though studies show that
the value added by industries is higher than for any other use4. At present Amman residents receive
no water two days of each week, Ruseifa gets service only 6 hours each week, and are not the worst
affected.
8.     A conservation program recently announced is a positive initiative to discourage excessive use
of water but more measures are needed - especially financial ones. Without necessarily raising base
tariffs, consideration might be given to (a) a summer surcharge on excessive consumption, and/or (b)
revising the tariff structure, and/or (c) paying for all consumption at the same (highest) rate. The recent
computerization of billing greatly facilitates all of these measures.  Summer average monthly
consumption in many Governorates is up to 3 times the lowest (winter) month whereas in Amman the
increase is only about 25% because of supply restrictions. It appears that much of the additional
consumption is not for "essential" personal use, but for watering gardens and other "non-essential"
purposes. If so it greatly disadvantages other consumers - particularly those on lower income. There
is a strong economic argument that summer consumption exceeding a reasonable increment should
be charged at least at the marginal cost of augmenting supply. An across the board summer
surcharge is a simpler but less equitable alternative.  Secondly, the average consumption by
consumers billed at the highest block (>100 m3/quarter) is on average 318 m3 - far above the minimum
for that block. Consideration might be given to: (a) an additional (or revised) block for consumption
exceeding a higher quantity (240 m3 /quarter was recommended by the 1987 Black & Veatch Tariff
Study); or (b) replacing the block structure with a smoother curve; and/or (c) a separate charge for
industrial consumers.
Unaccounted-for Water
9.     Unaccounted-for water has increased during the Project period from an estimated 45% of
production at appraisal to a high of 61% before reportedly reducing to 58% last year. Specific projects
have been successful at reducing losses locally.5 The Mission considered that it was an unrealistic
expectation that an overall reduction of losses to 25% could have been achieved by 1990 as set for
the Project objective. The increase in losses however is a trend that must be reversed if the WA is
ever to become financially independent. It is evident that a sustained, coordinated program is needed
to achieve this goal. The Mission was therefore disappointed to note that the Unaccounted-for Water
Section established under the Secretary-General is still not functional, and projects in Greater Amman
to be financed by KfW are still pending. The technical cooperation project of GTZ is, however, a very
4/      A recent study (GDI - Water Scarcity as a Challenge for Jordanian Industry) indicates that a charge of 1,000
fils/m3 would still make water less than 3% of the average total production cost to industries. The current tax of 100 fils/m3
on privately owned wells is easily affordable and could be doubled or trebled (to encourage conservation by large
consumers) without encouraging use of reticulated public water and exacerbating supply shortages.
5/    It was reported that losses in Zarqa were reduced from 50% to around 20% of supply and public calls about
leakage reduced from 80-100/day to 20/day as a result of the Bank-financed rehabilitation project. Data substantiating
these reports was not however readily available.



- 36 -
positive development. The Mission strongly recommends that every discreet water distribution system
be metered (if not already) and that quarterly water loss data be required and verified to identify
the areas with highest losses and to monitor trends. An internal report identifies significant causes of
losses to be: under-registration of consumer meters caused by use of float valves; illegal connections;
and the practice of meter readers under estimating quarterly consumption rather than reading all
meters. The WA agreed to issue the report to the next mission proposed in October/November 1994.
Wastewater Reuse
10.    Although the Project's contribution to wastewater reuse has been marginal, significant progress
has in fact been achieved. Design of a reuse scheme is now a mandatory requirement for all new
treatment facilities and irrigation is now practiced at half (7) of the wastewater treatment plants.
Significant issues needing to be addressed appear to be: (a) the poor quality of effluent from waste
stabilization ponds, (b) pollution of King Talal Dam; (c) the development of a strategy for wastewater
reuse; and (d) the need for clear institutional responsibility.
11.    The use of floating macrophytes (duckweed) has proven very effective at improving pond
effluent in the USA and elsewhere and should be demonstrated on a pilot scale at least. Projects in
Bangladesh and Peru have shown that the potential of this technology can also generate very
substantial income from the high protein duckweed that can be harvested". This makes wastewater
treatment and reuse an attractive service for private sector participation. A proposal was developed
with Eng. Ahmad Rjoub of the Amman Governorate under the Multilateral Water and Environment
Working Groups initiative on Wastewater Treatment and Reuse for Small Communities. Eutrophication
of King Talal Dam as a result of nutrients in the effluent from As Samra and Jerash WWTP is reported
to be a problem requiring monitoring and appropriate control measures to be identified. A second pilot
project was therefore developed with the Treatment Plant Division of the Wastewater Directorate of
WA.  Completion of the strategy for wastewater reuse under preparation in 1993 is strongly
recommended at least as an interim document to guide further reuse developments.  Finally,
institutional responsibility could be more clearly defined, since the volume of reclaimed water already
exceeds 50 MCM/year and has rapidly become a major water resource. The subject is sufficiently
important that responsibility be clearly defined in the Authority's organizational structure - possibly by
renaming the Treatment Plant Division as the Treatment and Reuse Division.
Institutional Development/SAPS-Water Study
12.   In view of the importance the Bank places on the future institutional structure of the water
sector, the Mission requested that the Bank be formally invited to participate in the review of phase
1 reports and recommendations. The revisions to the study terms of reference to emphasize
rationalization of responsibilities, and to consider the management needs of the water sector as a
whole rather than focus only on strengthening the management of existing institutions, are strongly
endorsed. Although there have been significant institutional developments during the Project duration,
the objective of strengthening the WA has not been achieved. The provisions of Law 18/1988 for the
Water Authority to be established as an autonomous corporate body with financial and administrative
independence are not met. The WA is now dependent on the Government for both financial subsidies
and approval of tariff revisions, and appears to have suffered a serious decline in efficiency and staff
morale as a result of being encumbered by the provisions of the Civil Service Act.
Reporting
13.    Regular reporting of WA operations required under the loan has not been fully provided but
data available from Project files and other sources are presented in Annex 4. Consultant progress
reports on the implementation of individual projects have been submitted regularly and have been fully
6/     Consideration might be given to sending WA staff to inspect the Bangladesh project in particular as it has been
operating for several years.



- 37 -
satisfactory. Although the Authority is making progress in developing a management information
system and annual reporting of its operations, the production, on at least an annual basis, of the
operational indicators provided by the Nov. 1993 mission is strongly urged.
Field Inspections
14.   A number of field inspections were carried out including Zarqa Water, Jarash WWTP and Salt
WWTP. The quality of construction was consistently good and contractual performance seemed very
satisfactory with no significant disputes or claims by the contractors. A small but significant problem
seems to be the inadequate provision made for landscaping of facilities - especially the WWT Plants.
The constructed facilities will be left with bare earth and no means of watering. It is important that
treatment plants not only perform adequately but that they are also aesthetically attractive. The WA
is reported to have something of a poor public image as a result of high bills, intermittent service and
excessive leakage.  Well cared for and attractive facilities can only improve that image. It is
recommended that a landscaping plan be prepared for each facility and include planting of low
maintenance shrubs and trees, plastic sheet and graveling, and reticulation of treated wastewater for
irrigation/washdown.
Training
15.   Although the Loan Agreement included provision for financing of training as a component of
the WA development program, no disbursements had actually been made. USAID support included
overseas training for senior staff but an ODA grant for a twinning agreement with Thames Water
Authority did not eventuate. Currently, the WA runs training programs primarily for its Subscribers
Directorate staff (mainly the meter readers) to improve the efficiency of their operations. These
programs, which are done on an ad hoc basis because of lack of adequate resources, need to be
adequately staffed and budgeted for to ensure continued effectiveness. The Bank places high
importance on training but the preference of the WA to use grant funds is understandable.
Summary of Assessments
16.   In view of the less than satisfactory situation with regard to covenant compliance, sector policy
development for water resources management and conservation, and performance inefficiencies, the
Mission has little choice but to conclude that the overall assessment of the Project implementation
should be unsatisfactory. The attached Table 1, Annex 4, provides a Summary of Assessments. The
Mission wishes to qualify their assessment by noting that service coverage has been considerably
expanded, important new legislation has been enacted, wastewater treatment and reuse considerably
improved, and many initiatives that have been taken recently have the potential to considerably
improve the Authority's situation. However the Government is facing the prospect of a growing
supply/demand gap, only a few remaining unexploited water resources that will be considerably more
expensive to develop than in the past, and inefficient service delivery and a tariff structure that result
in the requirement for large annual subsidies. The sustainability of services is therefore vulnerable to
a continuation and increase in subsidies. Based on all indicators except service coverage, the
situation appears to be worse at the end of the Project than at the beginning. Institutional and financial
restructuring, greater cost-recovery, and commercialization of service delivery are therefore likely to
be prerequisites to further Bank lending.



- 38 -
Water Sector Strategy
17.    The Bank previously prepared a Water Resources Sector Study (1988) and a Water Sector
Study (1984). In view of the significant developments since the preparation of those reports7, it was
agreed that the Bank would assist the Government to carry out an update of that work. In addition to
updating the historical trends and future projections of supply and demand, it is proposed that the
study would pay particular attention to (a) the impact of water shortages on consumers (particularly
the urban poor and industries); (b) the willingness-to-pay for improved water service; (c) an analysis
of long run marginal costs, tariffs, cost-recovery and demand management; (d) institutional
restructuring (relying particularly on the SAPS study by CIDA consultants); (e) commercialization of
service provision; (f) improving efficiency of irrigation water use and M&l water supply; (g) maximizing
the potential of wastewater reuse; and (h) recent or potential regional agreements on water resource
exploitation. A mission is proposed for October/November to initiate this work.
Future Bank-Financed Proiect
18.    The Bank was requested to consider support for the proposed Disi Conveyance System
project, a major water supply development based on abstraction of "fossil" groundwater from the Rum
Aquifer in the vicinity of Disi in south-western Jordan. The Bank has already reviewed the terms of
reference for the feasibility study and, in view of the considerable financing requirements of the project,
suggested that consideration be given in phase 1 of the study to the possibility of private sector
involvement through a BOO/BOT contract.  Such an arrangement is in accordance with the
Government's 1993-1997 Plan for Economic and Social Development. The Mission reviewed the
amended TOR and has no further comment.
19.   Although possible Bank support might be focussed on this one project, it was important that
it should fit within the broader context of an overall plan for the development and efficient management
of water resources to provide sustainable and equitable services. To this end, the policy statement
to be defined under the ASAL project preparation, other current studies and the development of a
workplan being undertaken by the MOWI and its service agencies, and the preparation of the sector
strategy report mentioned above are important and relevant.
7/     Not least among which is the Government's Plan for Economic and Social Development, 1993-1997,
which emphasizes activating the role of the private sector, restructuring public sector institutions to
adopt commercial performance criteria, and taking account of the appropriate cost of water to
determine its best possible use.



- 39 -
Next SteDs
20.    Agreement was reached on the following steps:
(i)    The WA would notify the Bank of the award and timetable for the Disi Feasibility Study;
(ii)    Final disbursement requests under Loan 2694-JO would be submitted by the WA as soon as
possible;
(iii)   The WA would provide final review and comment on the ICR within 30 days of receipt of the
draft; and,
(iv)    A Bank mission in October/November to prepare the Water Sector Strategy Report.
21.   In view of his interest in the mission's findings and recommendations, a copy of this aide-
memoire is being forwarded to Eng. Boulos Kefaya, Director of Infrastructure Division, Ministry of
Planning.
- -4--- --------  --
Andreg J. Macoun, Task Manager
World Bank Mission
July 12, 1993
Annexes:
1.    Progress Report Loan 2694-JO, List of Contracts.
2.     List of evaluated bids for the two procurement contracts proposed for retrospective financing
under the Loan.
3.     Preliminary tariff analysis.
4.     Statistical Tables that will be annexed to the ICR.
5.    Wastewater Treatment and reuse demonstration Project.
AMacoun\SJmean:am\sj
a:794mis.aid



Progress Report Loan No 2694JO                                                                                                                                                   Annex 1
World Bank                                                                                                                                                                     Page lof 3
As Per 24/0411994
O.K.
No.  Coniract   Coiiiraactor Suppller/    Cate-      Dale of   WIl  MOp         Awiarded,       Revised'     Awarded         Revised         WB Share.        Wit Shaire        Wit Share
|NtimIber   Consultant               gory     Contract.'   %      %i    Value JD)         Value JD     Value USS      Value US$          Paid US$         D)ue s$      Paid Rev. US$
1,            IVariousContractors                     19851   RA      RA.                                              3.566,179.120      3,566,179.120          O.0(10     3,566.171.120
2.  j014/85    .United Enterprise Co.   :CW            19851   RA;   RA    951,935.750j   951,935.750   2.719.816.429' 2.719,816.429       898.309.030.          0.000        89').309.030
3.  j47/85    |SAMErng. & Cont. Co.      .M            19851    85     15:   296,3X3.000:   301,087.000    846.808.571    886.482.000      753.509.700.          0.000        550,818.090
4.  1,59/85    iReda Con. Corp.          lCW        28/06/86    60     40,   295.342,400    326,509.870    843.835.429    921.803.000.     553.081.800,          0.000        553.088.1)0
5.  009/86     ENEXCont. Co.             CW    l    1 04a6l 60     40.   195.935.000'   273.379.050   559.814.286!   781,083.0001         468.649.800,          0.000         71.867,600
6.  010/86    :TripleConst.Co.           CW        01/04/861    60:    40j   178.254.000    158.607.7501   509.297.143,   453.165.000'     271,899.000:          .0000         74.368.790
7.  1032/86    iShurara Cont. Co.        CW        30/07/86     60;   40j   369.975.0001   450.476.4401  1,057,071.4291  1,341,801.000'    805,080.6001          0.00)        805,083.160
8.  03/1186     Abullamdan Cont.ICu.            !25/07/86       601    40    572.100.000j   765.647.980C  1.634.571.429| 2.302.250.000j I1.381,350.000           0.tXX1      1,381,J55.520
9.  035/86      N.F.C.                   |CW        09/07/86    60     40j   635.040.0001   623.495.6001  1.814,400.0001  1,857.750.000i  1.114.650.000          0.000       1.117.608.250
10.  0371R6     AbuHamdanzCont.Co.       :CW        29/08/86    60     40:   246.114.184    281.912.020:  703,183.383    82S.085.000'       496,851.000          0.000        108,453.)00
II. '038/86    IAl-TaawnCont.             CW        29/08/86.   601    401   218.550.0001   293,396.4601   624.428.5711   852.045.000,      511,227000'          0.000        171.417.360
12.  043/86    *R., Abu Saiali & Alwan   CW         03808/86    601   40. 109,535.000    128068.5,0,   312.957.143!  348,443.000;           209,065.800          0.(100       209.061.H8K
13.  041/86     Juozy&Sogrrcali         IC          0102/O87    1001    O,   488,975.000    500.667.000j  1,222,437.500   1,423.111.0001  1.423.111.000          0000        1.334.751.740
14.  050/86     AI-Qatuss& l1ifar        I      |      1986     85'    15    334.638000    334.638.000j   956.108.571j   904.916.0001       769,178.600          0.U00        769.676.070
15.  055/86     T.S.B.&Abu lHarmdan      M          18/12/86    85     '51   358.750.000    334.242.000,  1.025.000.000'   828.049.0001     703.841.650          0.000        703.473.180
16.  057/86     Al-NasserTrdingCo.       M          18/01/87    85     151 1.688.460.000I 1, 677.9460401. 4.824171.429  4.987,870.000   -  4,239.689.500         O((W       4,239,6)3.540
17.  057/86     T.S.I(.                   M         18/01/87     85     Ii 1.264.786.0001           00   3,875.517.000   3,610,616.000l   3.069.023.600          0.000       3.023,734.210
18.  058/86     loidan Pipe Manu. Co.    M             1987     85     151  1,()38,700.000  1.038.698.150   2.967,714.2861  3,102.512.000.    2.637,135.200      0.000      2,637.138.830
19.  068/86     Atla Expret               M            1987    85      151    53.337.0001    53,006.550    152,391.429    154.936.000,      131.695.600          0.000        131,698.560
20.  068/96     AIlNasserTrading Co.     jM            1987     85      151   154.369.000|    74.468.900    441.054.286    225,152.0001     191.379.200         ,0.000;        191.376.770
21.  06t/86     Khalicreh                IM            19S7     85      15j    22.150.0001    18.827.500    63,285.7141    54.971.000        46.725.350           0.000        46.725.1tt0
22.  068/86     T.S.B.                   IM            1987    85       '5     27.901.5001    27.901.500    79,718.571 |    82.793.0001      70.374.050           0.000        70j74.700
23.  076/86     AbuRwa'aConL.Off.         CW            1987    60      40i   159.693.000    190.011.000    456.265.7141   458,358.0002     275.014.800           0.000        275.01S.610
24.  077/86     Abu Rwaa Cant. Off.  ! CW              1987     60      401   143.293.0001   179,091.080    409,408.5711   486.338.000|     291,802.800           0.110t)     291.1105.301
25.  082/86     Albhrt Srouji            CCW            1988    60      40!   156.190.000I   162.150.000                            |        22.761.0001          0.00(1            0.000
26.  083/86     R.,AbuSaiah& Alwan  |CW             02/02/87    601   401   166.450.5001   16290.590             .857    457,523.ODO             ..,              0.000       274.518.000
Sub-'llolal (I) P aid by Wit $                           I    25,176,099.0001                    23,497,602.760
Total Due by Wit S                                       1                 I           0.000



Annex 1
Page 2of 3
No.  Conetrac   Coniracuor/lSupplierl   'Cnae-       Date ot!   WIi  MOP;       Awardedi        Revised:     Awarded         Revuled,        WB Shart        W1U Share         Wil Sbsre
__Number  iCoalnt                        3ery  i  Contrel r ac                 Value JD I     Value JDO     Value US$     Value I S$         laid USS         Due US5      I'uidRev. US$
27.  084/P6     A Snuldi & Modern Corp.   !CW       08/2/7      60     40      99,950.000    6S.193.340j   285.571.429    187,3R5.000       112.431.000          0000         112.437.400
28.  085/86    ,ASnadi&ModernCorp         CW        08/02/871    60    40    149,725.000.    74.871.220.   427.785.714    206,215.000!      123.729.000          0.000        123.731.210
29.  '09186    !AbuRwa'aC0anlOff.        ICW        17/03/87    60i   40,    70,633.0001    84,640.530    201.808.571    184,595.000        110.757.000          0.000         73.757.320
30.  099/86     Ma'ayahTnading            CW    I  Il03/W       60     401    49,446.000:    49.409.000!   141.274.286'   146.723.0001       8S,036.800.         0.000         88.038.810
31.  008/7       t.h& Ibranhim MagoCo.    M         27/03/89    100     0    368.550.000    3681550 000! 1.053.000.000   1.013.962.000    1.013.962.000:         0.000      1.013.951.9I0
32. |011/8R     Abu Taah COAL Co.         CW        06/0718     60     40,   229.136.000. 18 ,508.130    481.37S.1511  358.410.000'        215.046.000!          0.000        215048.970
33.  013/8      JaradatConL Off.        .CW    ' l/04/88        60,    40      43,550.000,    40,914.100!   111,381.074.    99.017.000,     59.410.200           0.0U0         59.410.820
I                                                                                     I             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
34.  014/88    IAl-Ta'awnConLCo.         'CW    i  3003/88 1   60      40.    56380.000'    57.435.0001    144,194.3731   145,172.OO1     87,103.200           0.01)0        87,104.460
35.  015/8      AIT4wnCnCo.               CW        0           60     40      61050000      63.20.100i   156.138.107,   1530113.0/04       91.867.800           0.0(X)       91.869.250
36.  016/18    jAbu lIamdn Cont. Co.     jCw        21/04/88    60j    401    47.887.500j    47,437.280|   122.474.425!   114,225.000       68,535.000           0.(00:        68.536.390
37.  017188     AbuTa'ahCoal.Co.         jCW        14/05/88    60     40j    39.125.0001    39,353.000;    96.844.059    102.6900001       61.614.110           0.000         61.615.420      .
38.  018/S8     MechanicalConst.Co.      jCW        30/03/88    60j    401    23.086.000!    21.939.850!    61.398.936i   54.073.0001       32.443.'00           0.000         32.444.960
39.  019/81  Aba Ta~aIa Co.u. Co.  !CW    I  26/03/88  60  401    37.725.000  39.579.400  97,229.381    104.270.0O0  62.562.000           0.000        62.563.200
39.  019/82  Abu Ta'it Cont- Co.  ra.    26/3/8       6      401    3772                                                          34:
40.  021/88     Abu Tai'h ConL Co.        CW        22/C4/88    60     40j    29,125.0001    22.669.650     75.064.433    57,415.000j       34,449.ODO           0.000         34,450.750
41.  047/88     Shu,afaConL Co.          iCW        24t08t88    60     40!   777,193.000    190,353.00'3  1.579.660.569'   374 477 0001    224,686.2001          0.0J00      224,688.020
42.  055/88     Abu Ilamdan Cont. Co.    jCW        20/08/88    60     40    719,218.000    706,419.000j  1.266,228.873j  1,243.425.000    746.055.000           0.000       746.064.540
43.  061/88     Al-TaawnCOnLCO.          jCW      i18/0888      60     40    794.432.0001   682.594.0001  1-324-053333   1.137,656.667     682,594.0001          (.000       6S2.605.140
44.  062/88     Bi,a& Salme               CW    I  'b/b0I8      60'   401   728.950.0001   661.664.3701 1,304,025.0453  1,183.657.1911     708.744.000           0.000       706.567.420
45.  009/89     Jorounl'ipcManu.Co.      IM     |  12/06/89                     1     21.033.0001 12 .033.0,O  183.383.333j   129.461.000!  129.461.000          0.000        129.462.660
46.  009/89     T.S.B.                    M         12/06/89    100     0'   225.677.500,   225.677.5001   322.396.429    325.544.000      325.544.000           0.0U0       325.546.340
47.  037/89     nitar & Zurikat           M     ;  12t06/89    100      0    118.513.6001   118.513.600!   169,305.1431   179.095.000      179.095.000           0.010        179.097.640
48.  037/89     AI-Nasscr&Jedca           M     j      1989    100      0    181.843.900    181.843.900j   259.777.000    259,777.0001     251.989.000           0.000       251.991.1100
49.  037/89     T.S.B.                    M            1989    100      0   2,603,097.000   2,603,097.0001  3,718,710.000   3,718,710.000|  3.717,729000         0.00       3.718.895.500
50.  03989      T.S.I1.                  IM     *      1989    100      0,   524.737.000    524.737.000j   752,723.000    749,624.286      752,723.000           o.o0 ,      752.740.990
51.  039R89     Al-Na5rTrading Co.       IM     |      1989    100      0    282.688.350    225,947.000j   403.840.500w   322 781.0001,    201.191.000           0.0M        293.744.280
52.  039/89     A.V. Scan Was$            M            1989    100 0-     93.249.400         93,249.4001135.4.98.000  1       98.000       135.498.000           o.00o       150.909.270
53.  039/89     SAM Eng.&CoOL Co.         M            1989    100     -0    76.960.000      76.960.0001   131,587.0001   131,587.000:     131.587.0001         0.00O        129.429.570
53. 039/89~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         
54.  039/89     Nur Engineering           M            19899   !00      0      97.000.0001   68,221.000    142,670.000    97,459.000        97.459.000         (0.000         97.459.260
Sub-'l'otal (2) Paid by Wll S                                 10,446,302.000!                   10.514,163.1JO
Sub-l'otaul (12) Paid by Wi S;    35,622,401.000                                                A4,011,766.060
lTolal Dfle by Wl $            .                     _.H)o0



Annex 1
Page 301 3
No. Contract   ContrattorI Supplierl     Cate.       Date of.  WU   MOP         Awarded         Revised.     Awarded         Revised         Wlt Share       Wi Stiare         WIt Share
Number  'Consultant                  gory     Contracti    %       %       Value JD       Value JD     Value US$      Vnlue US$.         Paid US$:        Due USS.    I'iid Rev. US$
55.  OD9/89    IKhaliLech                M             1989     85:    15      65,000,000     55,802.000i   95,588.235     82,061.765        82,062.000          0.000         82.062.4401
56.  1M1/90     ENEX ConL Co.            ICW        27/03/90    60     40!   658,834.000n   743,906.000    941,191.429   1,062.723.340      637.634.000          ().(X)4      636.75(1.X8)0
57. 1043/89     Arab Eng and Tech Corp.    C           1990    100      0       2,590.0001    2,656.000      3.924.000      3.976.000         3.976.000          0.000          5.09Y.390
58.  00.9/89    IJedca                  ,M      i  12/06/891   100      0    119.484.000.   119.484.000!   174,7B1.000.   181.037.000i      174.781.00'          0.000        174.975.56()
59.  009/89    'Elat.icIlO f0ce          M         12/20689    100,    0      15.298.000o    15,298.000    23.138.000    23.138.000j        23,138.000,        0oo0           32.144.1UO
60. 1053/8)2       iasanJarudat          cw         02/ Iwo;    60     40;   196.586.0001   198,490.000    297.857.576.   300,743.340.      180,446.0001          0.004       IIK).g56.520
61. 1079/89    ISIGMA                           i  21/11/882  lOO       0    246.201.000:   234.958.000    434.215.168    345,526.000       345.526.000j          0.00       345,449.85(1
62.  0IN7/88    IC                       iC         21/11/88    1001    0    215.500.000'   282.655.000   380,070.5471   415.669.ooo0      415,669.000i         .-        41X,770.800
63.  088/88    iShubcilat. It& Nespak     C         24/11/88    100,     0    221.600.000'   156.268.200.   369,333.333    260,447.000:     260.447.0001          0.000       260.42S.460
64.  089/88    1Arabidl                   C     :  22/11/88    1OOj      0j   237.320.000j   210.016.8001   395,533.3331   350.028.000:     350.028.0001          0.000       349,941.57(1
65.  09"1V8     Jardamiel                C         21/11/88    100      0'   232,130.000'   330,175.000    386.883.333    485,.551.000     485.551.000|          0.00        485,456.430 Z1
66.  Tech       J]im                      TA                   100i      0o! o  126.800.000    183.605.000   232.000.0001   262,293.0001    262.293 060     |      .000     262531X). 130
Teh         i                       TA                                                                                                    293.OO            0.00         262.(31605
67. ITech       Z.trq. 4Engineers        IC         01OO/91    O0D  01 ol10000.000,    69,202.540.   151,515.152!    99,572.000             99.572.000'         O.WO          99,519.2(1
68.  01219      ACE                       C         3008/90    200I      0     24,500.000D    38,214.0001    37.121.2121   56.197.000|.      56,197.000           0.0(X)       56,196.56tl
69.  054190     Shubeihlat. B & Stanley   C         15/05/91    100      0     94.529.030    94,529.000    139.013.2351   139,013.235        95.736.000      43,277.235        95.530.19)0
70,  056J90     Abu aftiContt.Co.       ,CW        I18/11/.90   601    40j  1,165,250.000   1,637,286.0000  1,765.530.303' 2.338,980.000:  1.403.388.000;        O000        1.404,630.360(
71.  057190     AbultanudhmCo t.Cot. C    CW    !  12/21190     601    40i  1.829.592.000   2,328,060.000, 2,772.109.091 i  3.325.800.0001  1,995.480.000        0.000:      1.996,163.571
7Z   05490          laddad Cunt Co.      |CW        22122/90    60     40j  1,658.550.0001  2,225,940.5001  2,512.954.545j 3.179.915.000|  1.907,949.0001        0000        1.925,948.41X)
73.  066190     AI-Kagranch              ICW        17/02191    60     40    414,994.000,   436,128.000    628.778.7881   641,365.0001      384,819.000          0.000        384,819.112(1
/4.  023/91     I1usseinAllych           CW        29/09/91     60     40    229,845.0001   320,490.000    338,007.353j   471.308.3401      282,785.000          0014.        282,324.14(0
75.  024191     Srouji nd Madanal    _    CW        07/10191    601    40' 2,680,011.000: 2.680,011.000   3,941,192.6471 3,941.192.647i   2,101,533.000     263,182.588:    2,482.272.320
76.  025/91     KaramehCont.Co.          CW    j  28/09/91      601    40   2,794.284.000   2,794.284.000   4,109,241.1761  4.109,241.1761  1,684,447.000   7BI,097.706     2,(15.298.7BO
77.  056191     C.E.C.                    C       14/09/91    1001      0    165,150.000    165,150.000    242.867.6471   242,867.6471      171.956.000      70,911.647       211,753.2301
78.  R4A        Ilassainaradat            CW                    601    40    107.110.000    1072110.000    179.566.000:   179,566.000'      107,113.000          0(100        107,74(1.1(Xi
79.        GCECoIIIpuIel             M     1  15108193    too1      0      7,990.000      7.990.000    11,496.40      1 ,496.4031       11.496.403          0.0W'.        11,414.240
IT0,  74/86                              IM                    100:      0                                     46                           10,867.210                        101,867.210
Legend                                                                                   Sub-Total (3) Paid by VIt $                     13,625,889.613                     14,399,713-160
M    Supply of Matcrial                   WI3    World ltank                             Trotal (It2+3) Paki by WU $                     49,248,290.613                    48,411,479.420
CW   CIvIl Works                          MOI'  Ministry of Planning                      ul aIl Due by Wtt $                                              t,IS,469.188
C    Consulltancy Servicae                JD     Jordan Dinar                           ,Payment IBulance $                                                                   430,05S192
TA  Tecinical Adviser                    RA    Itetro Aclive                             Batlance Playable fly the Loan $                                                   1,SXN,52(1.5NO



List of Evaluated Bids for the                                                               Annex 2
Two Procurement Contracts                                                                  Page 1 of 1
Proposed for Retrospective
Financing Under the Loan
Contract 24/9VI/CB
Supply of 4" and 6" Steel Pipes
Item  Supplier                      iCountry of 4" Pipe Unit i4" Pipe Total 16" Pipe Unit   6" Pipe Total
No.                                  Origin    Price in JD    Price in JD    Price in JD  Price in JD
Qty 30000 m  Qty 30000 m  Qty 20000 m    Qty 20000 m
I                                           I   .'-
1.  Al-Mashreq                      U.S.A.          25.550   766,500.000        35.770   715,400.000
2.  Jedca & Al-Nasser               Turkey           11.700   351,000.0001       19.431   388,620.000
2.a  Jedca & Al-Nasser              Turkey          12.330   369,900.0001       17.397   347,940.000
3.  Technical Services Bureau       Turkey          11.000   330,000.000        13.850   277,000.000
3.a  Technical Services Bureau      Turkey                                      13.580  271,600.000
3.b  Technical Services Bureau      Jordan           9.700   291,000.000        13.000   260.000.000
4.   Arab Pipe Manufacturing Co.    Jordan           9.900   297,000.000         13.200   264,000.000
5.  |Golden Leaf Corporation        Korea            13.344   400,320.000       24.942   498.840.000
Offer 3.b did not comply with the lining and coating Tequirements as specified in the tender documents
Offer 4. did not comply with the lining and coating requirements as specified in the tender documents
Contract 73/9211CB
Supply of 4" and 6" Bulk Water Meters
Item  ISupplier                     |Country of 4" WM Unit 14" WM Total 6" WM Unit  16" WM Total
No.                                  Origin    Price in JD    Price in JD    Price in JD  Price in JD
_  Qty 650                     Qty 500
I.  Al-Qaous                        U.S.A.         446.040   289.926.000       479.080   239.540.000
2.  Bitar and Zureiqat              Germany        233.000   151,450..000       479.000   183,000.000
3.  Atlass Express,                 Japan          562.190   365,423.500       737.139   368,569.500
4.  Modem Trading Agency            U.K.           242.140   157,391.000       420.200   210,100.000
5.  Issa and Naf a                  France         234.315   152,304.750       366.268   183,134.000
6.  Qudah Trading Co.               Canada        1,189.000   772.850.000     1,694.000   847.000.000
7.   Saba Trading Co.               China           89.500    59,175.000        141.000    70,500.000
8.  Al-Nasser Trading Co.           Germany        301.470   195,955.500       485.300   242,650.000
9.  Technical Services Bureau       Poland          150.000    97,500.000      230.000   115,000.000
4"   Offer 7 did not provide EEC approval certificate as requested in the tender documents
Offer 7 did not comply with delivery period of 160 days specified in the tender documents
Offer 9 did not provide EEC approval certificate as requested in the tender documents
6"    Offer 7 did not provide EEC approval certificate as requested in the tender documents
Offer 7 did not comply with delivery period of 160 days specified in the tender documents
Offer 9 did not provide EEC approval certificate as requested in the tender documents



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 8
Preliminary Analysis of Tariffs and Cost Recovery
1.    The Mission's unsatisfactory overall assessment of the Water Supply and Sewerage Project (2694-
JO) is based primarily on the failure in each yeer of the project to meet the financial covenant on tariffs
and cost recovery which required the WA to meet all operating and maintenance costs (excl. depreciation),
debt service or depreciation which ever Is higher, and adequate Increases In working capital from its water
supply and sewerage charges. This analysis addresses the historic movement of tarffls, the effective tariffs
paid by consumers of different quantities of water, and suggests tariff adjustments which might be
considered that are designed to be more equitable as well as improve cost recovery performance.
Water Tariffs
2.     When the Project was prepared in 1986, it was noted in the Staff Appraisal Report that "water tariffs
will require substantial upward adjustment ..... ". In fact the opposite has occurred. Table 3.1 presents the
details of water tariffs that applied at Appraisal, and revisions In 1986, 1988 and 1990. It can be seen that
for nearly all consumer blocks (based on consumption), the present tariffs, ad3usted for inflation, are
considerably lower than at the commencement of the Project - in many cases, affecting the great majority
of consumers, water tariffs are less even in current terms.
3.    To take a closer look at tariffs, and their Impact on different consumer groups, the following
analysis is based on the situation in Greater Amman. The same conclusions are likely for other areas.
Tariff Structure and Impact on the Poor
4.    In 1989, the then Minister explained to a Bank mission that there were two principal criteria
considered in setting tariffs: protecting the poor through a low tariff for low consumption, and conserving
water through a high tariff for high levels of consumption. It appears that neither of these objectIves
Is currently achieved. Figure 3.1 presents the current 5 block tariff, increasing from 100 fils/M3 for
consumption of up to 20 M3 per quarter to 600 fils/M3 for consumption exceeding 100 M3/quarter. The
effective tariff is also shown along with the average cost of supply of 593 fils/M3. Because of the block
structure, however, the effective tariff is generally less - often much less - than the marginal tariff. The
exception is the lowest consumer group. Households with annual consumption of less than 10 M3/quarter
pay an effective tariff of 330 fils/M3 because of the minimum quarterly charge, a tariff higher than those
consuming 100 M3/quarter and more than the tariff paid by fully three quarters of all consumers. The
low tariff for the first block of consumption therefore provides no benefit at all to the poorest consumers
as their consumption, at only 6 Vcap/day, is too low for volumetric charges to exceed the minimum
payment threshold. They could double their consumption without paying a single additional fils. Who then
benefits from the lowest block? The answer is: everybody but the poor! Even the wealthiest residential
or industrial consumer pays only 100 fils for the first 20 M3 of consumption - one sixth of the cost of
supplying that water. It raises an important question: "Why should consumers of large amounts of water
be subsidized for part of that consumption? Isn't every M3 as valuable as any other M3 in a situation of
demand exceeding supply? There is a strong argument for charging the first M3 at the same rate as the
last M3 consumed by these large consumers.  Table 3.2 provides additional data on numbers of
consumers, consumption, and revenue.



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 8
Conservation and Cost Recovery
5.    The second criteria mentioned above is conservation - to discourage excessive use of water.
There is insufficient data available to estimate the elasticity of demand for water - the response of
consumers to changes in pricing. However the average cost of water supply is reported to be 590 fils/M3.
This exceeds the effective revenue paid by every single consumer block. If every consumer is receiving
some subsidy, it Is difficult to argue that the tariff structure was designed to conserve water. By granting
a subsidy and requiring all consumers to pay less than the actual cost of supplying the water,
consumption is actually encouraged. This is a contradictory incentive in circumstances when demand
during summer months cannot be met and is 'insustainable when the next supply augmentatlon will
significantly exceed the average cost, requiring a further increase in subsidies. Not surprisingly, the WA
financial position has been deteriorating to the point where it currently does not even recover O&M costs.
The Important point Is that someone has to pay the subsidy. If not the consumers directly, then the
Govemment must pay by default, as it is now doing in increasing amounts each year. Since Government
policies in the social sectors are to protect the poor, it is the poor again who are primarily disadvantaged
H Government funds must be used to subsidize even wealthy consumers of large quantities of water.
Figure 3.2 shows the relationship between per capita consumption and the amount of subsidy provided.
If per capita consumption is accepted as an indicator of wealth, it can be seen that significant subsidies
extend well beyond low income consumers, and are a significant percentage of the cost of supplying water
to even consumers of large quantities of water..
6.    Possible Initiatives
It is clear from the above analysis that grounds exist for significant revisions to water tariffs in
Greater Amman and probably also in other Governorates. What are the possibilities? These might include
any or all of the following: elimination of the minimum charge; addition of an extra block for extremely high
levels of consumption; a surcharge on excessive summer consumption; charging for all consumption at
a single rate; separate tariffs for industrial consumers; or a complete revision of the tariff structure.
a. Minimum Charge:
The cost of reading a meter once a quarter and issuing a bill is so small to be insignificant to all
but the lowest block consumers. It is suggested that it be abolished since it is hurting the
consumers most in need of protection.
b. An Additional Block for Excessive Consumption:
The 1987 Black & Veatch Tariff Study recommended blocks at 240 and 300 M3/quarter and only
a four block structure. An additional block on the existing five block structure may well be justified
(the average consumption of the highest block is 318 M3/quarter, well above the threshold of 100
M3/quarter), but seems unnecessarily complex and subsequent alternatives appear more
attractive.
c. A Surcharge for Summer Consumptlon:
Since demand cannot be met in summer, a financial Incentive to reduce consumption appears
very appropriate provided demand is indeed elastic and would reduce as a result. If not, at least
revenue would be significantly enhanced and improve the WA's capacity to finance an increase
In supply. An across the board surcharge however would penalize all consumers irrespective of
their consumption. The recent introduction of computerized accounts makes much more
'targeted" surcharges possible. For example, consumption by each consumer only significantly
in excess of the average for the preceding quarters of the year could be surcharged.



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 8
d.      Charging all Consumption at a Single Rate:
Since all water is of equal value there is little justificatlon for subsidizing part of the consumption
and surcharging another part. A single rate, based on the total consumption for the quarter, Is
recommended. However, Implicit In this decision is the need to revise the tariff structure. For
example, under the current block tariff, consumption of 40 M3 would cost JD 7.6 (40 M3 * JD
0.190) whereas 41 M3 would cost JD 16.4 (41 M3 * JD 0.400), more than twice as much. A
smoother tariff structure is required.
e. A Separate Tariff Structure for Industriai Consumers:
Evidence is available that indicates the 'cost of water Is a very small percentage of industrial
production cost and that the value added is greater than for any other use. There is no reason
why industrial water consumers should be subsidized and a separate tariff seems justified.
Reliability of supply however is paramount.
f. Revised Tariff Structure:
The above arguments all indicate that a revised tariff structure might well be appropriate. For the
purposes of illustration only, Figure 3.3 provides an example. It is based on the following
assumptions:
low consumption by low income consumers should be affordable. A lifellnew tariff is
suggested of 135 fils/M3 for consumption of up to 30 M3/quarter. This is revenue neutral
based on the current tariff and affects 52% of all consumers, but only 17% of
consumption;
-     consumption in excess of a 'reasonable" quantity should be charged at the LRMC (long
run marginal cost) or higher - the cost of adding additional capacity to the supply. As a
suggestion, consumption of 80 M3/quarter (150 Viap/day for a family of 6) could be
considered reasonable and, in the absence of a LRMC estimate, 700 fiis/M3 set as the
marginal cost. This would affect less than 11% of consumers but 46% of consumption;
-     consumption of quantities intermediate between 30 and 80 M3/quarter charged at a
linearly increasing rate. This would affect the remaining 37% of consumers, some by as
much as a doubling of bills. However, a simple calculation indicates that the cost to these
households, as a percentage of household income, Is less than for (poorer?) households
with lower consumption.
Projected Impact on Revenue
7.    The impact of the revised tariff described in 6(f) above is an Increase of JD 8.1 million or 68%,
recalling that the example applies to Greater Amman water supply only. The amount of revenue Is
particularly sensitive to the upper pivot point, ie the consumption (80 M3/quarter) and tariff (JD 0.7001M3)
selected for the transition to the highest tariff rate.
Recommendation
8.    The above analysis is intended to be illustrative only. The growing accumulated deficits of the WA
and the need for development of more expensive water resources in future make increases in water tariffs
Inevitable, the only questions are when and by how much. Rather than ad hoc decisions about tariff
Increases as a result of pressure from lending agencies, it is suggested that the WA adopt a simple tariff
mechanism, such as that outlined above, and a regular trigger to review tariffs. It is suggested that this
exercise be done annually when the previous year's financial data Is available, and that tariff revisions be
automatic. Should the Government wish to make a political decision not to approve an Increase, it could
budget for an operating subsidy transfer to the WA to make up the shortfall In revenue. Such an
arrangement appears to accord with the Government's stated objective to restructure public institutions
(specifically including water) undergoingfinancial difficulties; gradually Implementing measures to eliminate
subsidles, recover costs, free prices, and adopt commercial performance criteria.



ANNEX 3
- 47 -                        Page 4 of 8
Table 3.1: Historical Water Tariffs (1986 - 1993)
Greater Amman Water Tariff
(all values in fils per cubic meter per quarter)
Tariff during    Tariff after        Tariff            Tariff
Appraisal (1986)   Appraisal (1986)   in 1988          in 1990
Tariff    in current in 1993 in current in 1993 in current in 1993 in current in 1993
Block      prices   prices   prices   prices   prices   prices   prices   prices
01 - 20        150   237        120    190        100    154       100    115
21 - 40        250   395        200    316        190   293        190    219
41 - 70        400   633        400   633        400    616        400    460
71 - 100       400    633       400   633        400    616        500    575
100>           500    791       500   791        500    770        600    690
Jordan Valley Water Tariff
(all values in fils per cubic meter per quarter)
Tariff during    Tariff after        Tariff            Tariff
Appraisal (1986)   Appraisal (1986)   in 1 988         in 1990
Tariff    in current in 1993 in current in 1993 in current in 1993 in current in 1993
Block      prices   prices   prices   prices   prices   prices   prices   prices
01 - 40        100    158        80    127         65    100        65     75
41 - 50        100    158        80    127         65    100       115    132
51 - 70        100    158       120    190        115    177       115    132
71 - 100       100    158       120    190        115    177       250    288
101 - 150      100    158       250   395        250    385        400   460
150>           100    158       400    633       400    616        600    690
All Other Regions' Water Tariff
(all values in fils per cubic meter per quarter)
Tariff during    Tariff after        Tariff            Tariff
Appraisal (1986)   Appraisal (1986)   in 1988          in 1990
Tariff    in current in 1993 in current in 1993 in current in 1 993 in current in 1 993
Block      prices   prices   prices   prices   prices   prices   prices   prices
01 - 15        100    158        80    127         65    100        65     75
16 - 20        120    190        96    152        90    139         65     75
21 - 25        120    190        96    152         90    139        90    104
26 - 40        120    190        96    152         90    139        90    104
41 - 45        120    190        96    152         90    139       300    345
46 - 70        300   475        300   475         300   462        300    345
71 - 75        300   475        300   475        300   462         500    575
76 - 100       400    633       400    633       400    616        500    575
100 >         400    633        400    633       400    616        600    690



Table 3.2: Water Consumption for Greater Amman 1993
(1)     (2)      (3)    (4)        (5)    1 (6)    (7)       (e)        (9)     (0)a(9)1(5)    (1i)           Y (t2)=(11)(5)  (13)=(12)I(10)    (14)  (15)   (16)-(15)'(5)    (17)  1(18)=(17y(5) 1(19)=(-1)(15)  (20)
Water is           Total          Average Waler     Biled      Effective            Average Water              Distribution Propoed   P..d                 Awerage Water            Dihtribution
Tarif    Block       Ied___d          oun4            cor    ion      Revenue    Revenue                   Subsidy                d Subsidy    Tariff    Revenue                 Subsidy                of Subtldy
JWCM      Cmt       No.     %       CM         %    CM/qrtr    cdy        JD        JD/CM        JD        JO/CM          %           %        JD/CM       JD          JD        JD/CM          %           %
0.100 D- 10      138,914  16.9%    621,739   1.6%     4.5.4       6    204.8817       0.330    163,804        0.263        79.9%       1.4%     0.135      83,936    284,756        0.456       339.3%      s.2%
0.100 11 - 20   147.339  18.2%   2,399,093   6.1%    16.28       23    250,364        0.104   1,172,298       0.489       468.2%      10.2%     0.135     323.878  1.098.785        0.456       339.3%      19.9%
0.190 21 - 30   136.702  16.9%   3.566.452   9.1%    26.09       36    431539         0.121   1,683.367       0.472       390.1%      14.7%     0.136     481,471  1,633,435        0.458       339.3%     29.6%
0.190 31- 40    107,149  13.3%   3.841,413   9.8%    35.85       50    536.937        0 140  1.741.021        0.453       324.3%      15.2%     0.248     952,70  1,325,287        (1345       139.1%     24.0%
0.4W 41 .50      76,902   9.5%   3,522.045   9.0%    45.80       64    624,445        0.177   1.464.128       0.416       234.5%      12.8%     0.381    1.271,458   817.114        0.232        64.3%      14.8%
0.400 51 .60     52,542   6.5%   2.920,326   7.5%    55.58       77    632.181        0.216   1.099,572       0.377       173.9%       9.6%     0.474    1.384.235    347,519       0.119        25.1%      6.3%
0.400 61 . 70    36,293   4.5%   2.379.973   6.1%    65.58       91    581.763        0.244    829,561        0.349       142.6%       7.2%     0.587    1.397.044    14,280        0.006         1.0%      0.3%
0.500 71- O0     26,381   3.3%   1.991.375   5.1%    75.49      10a    541.874        0.272    639,011        0.321       117.9%       5.6%     0.700    1,393.983        0         0.eo          0.0%      0.0%
(150 81 - 90      18.296   2.3%   1,563,664   4.0%    85.46     119    466.937        0.299    460,315        0.294        98.6%       4.0%     o 700    1.094.565        0         0.DO         0.0%       0.0%
0.500 91- 190     14,806   1.8%   1.420,726   3.6%    95.96      133    455,346       0.321    387,144        0.272        85.0%       3.4%     0.700     994.506         0         OODO          0.0%       0.0%
0.6W0 101 - 110   9.754   1.2%   1.028.868   2.6%   105.48       147    351,939       0.342    258179         0.251        73.4%       2.3%     0.700     720,206         0         0.090         0.0%       00%
(1600 111-120      7.672   0.9%    866,672   2.3%   115.57       181    323,284       0.365    202,512        0.228        62.6%       1.8%     0.700     620.670         0         0.DO          0.0%       0.0%
11600 121 - 130   5,661   0.7%     710,280   1.8%   125.47       174    271,982       0.383    149.214        0.210        54.9%       1 3%     0.70D     497.196         0         0.000         0.0%       0.0%
O.800 131-140      4.420   0.5%    596,587   1.5%   135.43      188    238,270        0.398    116.692        0.195        49.0%       1.0%     0.700     419,011         0         0.O0          0.0%       0.0%
(1600 141 -150    3,798   0.5%     553,551   1.4%   145.75      202    228,537        0.413     99.719        0.180        43.6%       0.9%     0.700     387.486         0         o.oo0         0.0%       0.0%
0.600 151 - 200    10463  1.3%   1.806,498   4.6%   172.66      240    796.084        0.442    273,169        0.151        34.2%       2.4%     0.700   1,264.549         0         QO0         0.0%       0.0%     X
Q6O0 201 - 300    4980   0.9%   1,672,044   4.3%   240.24       334    812,079        0.486    179.443        0.107        22.1%       1.6%     0.790    1,170,431        0         0.000         0.0%       0.0%
0.600 301 - 400    2388   0.3%     823,206   2.1%   345.02      479    426,970        0.519     61,191        0.074        14.3%       0.5%     0.700     576,244         0         0.000         0.0%       0.0%      I
(8D0 401 - 590     1,089   0.1%    484,751   1.2%   445.13      618    258.476        0.533     28,962        0.060         11.2%      0.3%     0.700     339,326         0         O.OD0.0%                 0.0%
0.800 501- 10D    1,560   0.2%   1.075550   2.7%   680.7        945    596,618        0.557     39,183        0.036         6.5%       0.3%     0.700     152.865         0         0.OD0        0.0%       0.%
0.600 1900'        1.017   0.1%   5.293,712  13.5%  52l5.22    7229   2,734,227       0.517    404,944        0.076        14.8%       3.5%     0.790    3.705.598        0         0             0.0%      0.0%
rQolal     88,126   10%   9166,2    100%                        11,76722               11.453,470                                190%             19,831,329  5,521.177                               1Q0%
at
(i Z
0 rn
-qx



Figure 3.1: Water tariff for Greater Amman (1993)
0.600  ->                                                        - - * * *                       *    * * **
Average cost of supply (excluding capital investment) = JD 0.593ICM-
a 0.500                                                                           _
t               Aa
10
cr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
0. 400 _
CL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
o        0      .100 bg -- X - Average O&M cost for ter  lung epreciation and interest) |JD 0.448I9p--
0.300
020
4)   ~~~~            ~                                                          U~Existing Block TariffI
o  '-U-                                                    ---U------ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Average effective cost for Block
*' 0.100                                         __     _           ___oo
0.000                                               consumed per quarte -_
o    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0)   0    0    0    0)   0    0    0    0
04c  C')          LOi  CC)  r~-   0    a)   0    -    N'  Cm  It  in   0    0)   0    0    0    0
.-    -    -    -    -    -    e~i   m    It  in   0    0       0
CM consumed per quarter                                                      O
z 



Figure 3.2: Distribution of Government Subsidies over Consumption
1,800,000                                                                                                                                    30.0%
1,600,000                                                                                   E     .                                       .
}  |   Existing Blwck Subsidly                 -25.0%
1,400,000                                                                                   Proposed Block Subsidy
--U-- /    * Dislibution of Existing Subsidy
X 1,200,000                                                                                -   ul Dlstdbutlon of Propoed Subsidy               20.0% 
11o,oo                                  1 |                                                                            :E                                     u
1.000,000
O>  800,000
0
! 600,000                                                                                                                                      10.0% .2
400,000
5.0%
200,000
0                                                                                                                                    0.0%
0  0   0    ~~~0 0>   0:    0         0)   0     03    0      >    CD    0    C0    0       0     0    0      0)   0
,-    .4   CO~'    LOl   CD  Ir-   co   0)    0           -    N    c')          V C   0     0     0    0    C0      0
,- C     CD*
Consumption CM/quarter
-u
c >
CD z
o 4Z
03 T



Figure 3.3: Proposed New Tariff Structure
0.700                                                     .
0.600 1                                                                             - -                               .   .
Average cost of supply (excluding ca  I investments) iJO 0.593/CM;M
t  *Q5*'                                                                                   ____
co
cr          ~         ~Average O&M cost of water (e9iluding deprepi tion and interest)= JD 0.448/CM                      _-
0.400                                                                  p                                       ___ ___
u                                                        -o.300- 0X    -  * Average Effective Cost JD/CM
w   0.200         :\                                                                                                  E *    -  c-     Proposed Traiff
0.100 ~ Existing Tariff
0.100
0.000                                                                                                         -           I                        I
o0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 O                                                     0 0  0  0    0  0   0  0  0  0
_      e,1    C      't       ) CS                Co      a)    0       .      C4    CY IO    LC)    0             0       0      0      0      0
_ _         _        -       -_-           C.J    CY)     LD     O      0      0
Consumption CM per quarter                                                                                   GQ
ooz
x



- 52 -                             ANNEX 4
ANNEX 4 contained draft versions of the tables which can be
found in their final form in Part II - Statistical Annexes



- 53 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND REUSE DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
Objective:    To demonstrate:
(a)   that waste stabilisation pond systems can produce an effluent
meeting stringent effluent quality standards;
(b)   that recent overseas developments for wastewater treatment in
ponds and reuse technologies can enable aquacultural and
agricultural reuse activities that are financially viable and present no
unacceptable environmental or health risks;
(c)    reclaimed wastewater has significant economic value.
Location:            The As Samra Wastewater Treatment Plant operated by the Water Authority
of Jordan is a conventional but very large (200ha) stabilization pond system
with a design capacity of 68,000 cu.meters/day and a current inflow of
1 30,000 cu.meters/day. It is surrounded by approximately 1,000 hectares
of land, about 500 has. of which is presently utilized to irrigate some
40,000 olive trees as well as forestry.
Management: The project would be managed by the Wastewater Directorate of the Water
Authority of Jordan, with technical advice from the World Bank.
Background:  Jordan is a water scarce country. Current water utilization of 900 MCM/annum
considerable exceeds replenishable resources but is inadequate to meet demand
estimated at 1200 MCM. Wastewater is a significant resource which, with efficient
management, could alleviate pressure on fresh water reserves that are mostly used
for irrigation and also provide the opportunity for more intensive and profitable
agriculture/aquaculture. Present wastewater production of 57 MCM/yr (1993) is
expected to increase to 98 MCM/yr by the year 2000. Although wastewater
currently represents less than 10% of the water used in irrigation, it is unlikely that
sources of irrigation water will significantly increase in future (and may well decline
as municipal and industrial uses expand), whereas wastewater quantities are
expected to continue to increase at a rapid rate.
A particular problem is the quality of effluent from treatment plants
employing either waste stabilisation ponds, or mechanised treatment
followed by maturation ponds. The sunny, warm climate in Jordan
encourages prolific algal growth and the result is that pond discharge fails to
meet effluent requirements for either discharge to surface waters or reuse
through drip irrigation. Several drip irrigation systems have failed as a result
of clogging by algae and high TDS.
At present, wastewater is reused for irrigation at 7 treatment plants and
discharged to receiving rivers and wadis at the other 7 treatment plants.
This results in significant environmental degradation (aquatic ecosystems,
eutrophication of King Talal Dam, possible aquifer contamination). Direct
reuse is practiced on a small scale (6 plants) and indirect reuse is practiced
of effluent from the other treatment plants through irrigation in the Jordan



- 54 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4
Valley (of whatever flow remains after high evaporation and infiltration
losses).
Reuse Options:      A number of reuse opportunities are available. By far the most promising for
Jordan appears to be to use wastewater ponds to grow Lemnaceae
(duckweed) - an easy to manage high protein crop - which could generate
significant revenue improve pond effluent quality and enable drip irrigation of
the effluent. Its application could be demonstrated and evaluated within
the context of:
(a)    a technology that is appropriate for and sustainable by small
communities (but also applicable to large scale projects);
(b)   fully complies with the 1989 WHO Guidelines for the Use of
Wastewater in Aquaculture and Agriculture.
(c)    complies with the Government regulations JS/893/1994 and
JS/202/91.
In Stage 1, initial focus could be centered on:
(a)   the use of duckweed (Lemnaceae) to improve the performance of
waste stabilization ponds;
(b)   the successful production of a protein-rich cash crop suitable for
other value-added uses;
Stage 2 could subsequently demonstrate:
(c)   the use of duckweed as fresh feed for dairy cattle; or dried to
produce an alternative feed that can substitute up to half normal
feed for chickens; or as fresh feed for the culture of tilapia or carp
fish.
(d)    efficient drip irrigation of valued crops.
As Samra STP:       The As Samra Sewage Treatment Plant receives a very high strength
municipal wastewater that is treated in a conventional series of anaerobic,
facultative and maturation ponds totalling about 30 days hydraulic retention
time. Plant performance studies indicate that anaerobic and facultative
ponds perform satisfactorily but maturation pond performance is only
moderate - possibly because of the growth of algae and a sulphur bacteria.
Further treatment of the effluent is needed to meet environmental standards
for discharge.
Proposed
Pilot Plant:   A small pilot plant is proposed for treating a portion of the effluent in duckweed
ponds. It is expected that the existing maturation ponds can subsequently be
modified to support duckweed growth so that the whole flow can be treated. Two
parallel channels, each of two ponds in series are recommended to enable a



- 55 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 4
duckweed stream of two ponds, each of average dimensions 1Om long by 5m wide
by 1 m deep, and a similar control stream. The duckweed channels are to be
equipped with a floating barrier (eg polyethylene pipe) at the midpoint and could be
earthen channels lined with clay or plastic sheeting to prevent infiltration of the
wastewater and to avoid the expense of concrete. A submerged pipe should be
used to interconnect each series of two ponds. Each channel has a volume of
about 1 25 cu. meters and flow rates should be adjustable between 4 and 20 days
total retention time (3.5 to 20 liters/min). An adjacent concrete slab is required for
drying of the harvested duckweed (approx. 25 sq.meters, slightly sloping from the
center to the edges).
Studies:            Stage 1
1.    Establishment of the parameters of duckweed growth under
Jordanian conditions and the improved efficiency of wastewater treatment
compared to conventional stabilisation pond systems.
2.    Design of an expanded duckweed facility utilizing the full
wastewater flow.
Stage 2
3.    Feeding trials using dried duckweed for chicken feed supplement.
4.    Pan evaporation studies to establish the extent to which duckweed
can reduce evaporation losses.
5.    Culture of tilapia with fresh duckweed feed in adjacent ponds that
utilize the treated wastewater only for make-up water.



Table   Major Wastewater Treatment Plants in Jordan
i    Treatment Plant          Type        Design Capacity (m3/day)        Effluent Disposal        1993 Inflow (MCM)
Es Samra**              WSP                          68,000      Trib. King Talal Dam, 350ha           45.36
forest, olives
Aqaba*                  WSP                            9,000     15ha forest, dates by drip             1.80
irrigation
Ramtha*                 WSP                           2,335      15ha ditto                             0.45_|
Mafraq*                 WSP                            1,800     20ha forest, olives, fodder            0.50
Madaba*                 WSP                           2,000      20ha fodder flood irr                  0.75
Ma'an**                 WSP                            1,200     7ha olives drip irrgn                  0.46
Irbid                   TF + AS                      12,000      Arab reservoir                         2.47
Baq'a                   TF                            6,000      Wadi Addaneer                          1.89
Abu Nuseir              AS (+RBC)                     4,000      Berene Wadi                            0.55
Jerash                  EA + MP                        1,155     Trib. King Talal Dam                   0.51
Salt                    EA + MP                       2,442      Shueib Wadi                            1.41__ _
Karak                   TF                              800      Karak Wadi                             0.30
Tafilah                 TF                             1,600     Ghwer Wadi                             0.28
Wadi Mousa              WSP                                      Irrigation forest                    Proposed
Fuheis/Mahis            AS + MP                                  Irrigation mixed                   Under constn.
Kufranjah*              TF                            1,800      5ha fodder, forrest                    0.29
Total                       114,132                                            57.02
*     Reuse of the whole flow     WSP  Waste Stabilization Ponds    AS    Activated Sludge     RBC   Rotating Biol. Contactor
Reuse of part of the flow  TF    Trickling Filter            EA    Extended Aeration    MP    Maturation Ponds



- 57 -
APPENDIX B



-58 -
Ministry orWatcr & irrigption          she l1ashemic Kingdom
Watei Autlho-ity                          orJordan
I<cf,    WAJ/72/18459         Date          7.12.1994     t-                             ri-
Mr. Andrew J Macoun                    DatePaC'd 
Middle East and North Africa Region,  D2tg A k'd____
TIhc World Bank_______ ______
1818 H Strect, N.W.                    Assignedto:           ,     i1
Washington, D.C.
USA
Room No. HI0-121
Fax; 00 1 202 477 0348                 Log No.
Dear Mr. Macoun;
Refercnce is made to thc Bank's Aide-Memoire during the period Novcmber 21-24.
1994. We would like to inform that the-ICR in irs prcsent formii represents the WB's
cvaluation- of thc projcct and its contribution to the sector as a whole. However, some of
thc evaluation criteria that havc been used to reach the unsatisractory conclusion of the
project nmay not be directly related to the scope for whicli the project was appraised.
Ncvcrtheless, WAJ at this point, would like to assure you that the sector as whole at
present is moving in the proper direction with regards to financial viability, efficient
operalion and maintenance.
As promised, the following four pages represents WAJ's point of view of the project.
Sincerely yours
Eng. KousJ   Qutelshat
Sccretary Gcneral
115
bL-J  ..Jt  -  uvT   9                      1 TLr<    r         V -  - I A.. I .;_tL
hct. t%3100 - 680)100 F:ax. 679143  hx. 22439 WAJ J( Cabcl / WATER JO P.O.DoA 2412 - 5012 Aninia"



- 59 -
Preface
Scarcity of water, coupled with insecure financial resources have lead to an almost total neglect
of efficient maintenance and operational practices in the Water Authority of Jordan "WAJ".
During the last decade, WAJ has primarily concentrated and directed its efforts and resources
towards the construction of water, wastewater and treatment systems. Large investment in terms
of both financial and human resources were made in order to reach the current situation whereby
97% of the population have tapped water and almost 55% have access to wastewater collection
systems and treatment facilities.
In the early eighties, the so called "crisis management" forced its way into the sector. This is due
to the fact that WAJ concentrated all its efforts on the construction side of its services. WAJ was
forced into the situation for many reasons; some of which are:
1.    Scarcity of water supply.
2.    Avoidance of contamination. of groundwater supply (the primary source of drinking
water) with wastewater disposal into the subsurface through individual cesspools.
3.    Unrestricted development in the residential areas.
Providing such services, without parallel consideration to efficiency in terms of maintenance and
operation, have lead to what seemed to be uncontrollable technical and managerial problems, the
primary of which is the unaccounted-for-water "UFW".
As part of a new sector planning, WAJ has recently directed most of its efforts towards becoming
a technically sound and financially viable entity. In this respect, WAJ started reorganizing itself
in such a way so as to meet the technical and administrative challenges generated from the
problem of UFW.
WAJ has recently launched series of actions to reduce UFW. At present, the average UFW for
1994 is about 54%.
As part of this massive campaign, WAJ has recently completed the rehabilitation of the Zarqa
water network. The project was financed under the World Bank Loan 2694. Recently, Japan
International Cooperation Agency "JICA" initiated a hydraulic study of Zarqa Ruseifa water
systems. The project aims, inter-alia, at establishing a hydraulically sound water network. This
is intended to improve the balance between supply and distribution, which will consequently lead
to a uniform pressure distribution, reduction in the energy bill, and to a longer life span of the
system.
Other rehabilitation projects are presently under construction. These include Greater Amman,
Irbid, Ramtha and Sult.
In addition, part of the Greater Amman Water Rehabilitation Project (financed under a concluded
loan with Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau "KfW") another project was initiated to enhance
operation management. This project, entitled Operation Management Support Project and is
ongoing since the beginning of 1994, is being concluded under a grant from Deutsche



- 60 -
Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit "GTZ". The project aims at reducing water losses
in the distribution system. This will be done through the improvement and extension of the
maintenance of the pipe network, operations of the pipe network, and operational facilities. This
should lead to an increase in WAJ's revenue from water provision and supply. Additionally, the
project will establish a Geographic Information System of the network. This will be linked to
a data base for all reference points which will include subscribers data, and frequency of repairs
in any section of the network, among other items.
Whereas rehabilitation projects need time to show their effect, WAJ concentrated on managerial
and administrative actions to reduce the UFW. Table (1) shows that the UFW was reduced from
59.45% in 1992 to 57.67% in 1993 and to 53.66% in 1994. It could also be extracted from the
same table that collection during the same period was increased from 90.63% to 94-25%. This
indicates the trend that UFW is decreasing while revenue is increasing.
Table I
Comparison of Water Pumped, Billed and
Collected for 1992, 1993 and 1994
Year  Registered  Collected   0/oage of    Quantity  Quantity  UFW (m')    %age
in JD     in JD       Collection   Pumped (m3)  Sold (m3)             of UFW
1992  22,400,980  20,301,649  90.63    200,962,000   81,482,966  119,479,034    59.45
1993  26,514,221  24,450,795  92.22    218,297,834   92,412,150  125,885,684    57.67
1994  30,598,227  28,839,334  94.25    215,957,434   100,072,695  115,884,739    53.66
WAJ's Assessment of the Loan 2694-JO Project
Upon observing the description of the Project components, as outlined in Schedule 2 of the loan
agreement, it becomes apparent that the loan was not intended to drastically affect the
performance of the entire water sector. The objectives of the Project were: (i) to further develop
the systems and procedures for water resources management; (ii) to improve and extend water
distribution and sewage collection and treatment systems; and (iii) to assist in the continued
development of the Authority. Within this framework of objectives, the project can be considered
as totally effective, and the performance as quite satisfactory. However, the criteria used for
assessment and the subsequent outcome of such assessment, as derived in the ICR, concentrate
on immediate impact the efficiency, policies, financial objectives, etc. The sector, as a whole,
was evaluated independently of the loan components. Evaluation of the Sector's performance at
a certain increment, i.e. a particular year, may easily describe such performance as unsatisfactory.
In this regard, the situation can be described as extremely satisfactory in terms of the performance
of where these components were used. Trend analysis, however, would indicate that the overall
performance of the sector, as of this date, to be satisfactory.



- 61 -
It should be noted that due to regional problems beyond its control, WAJ was not able to
implement the last two projects totalling to less than 15% of the loan amount according to
schedule.
Evaluation of Bank Performance
Inspite of the complications with the implementation of the project, WAJ believes that a unique
working relation was established with successive World Bank personnel who were directly or
indirectly involved on the follow up and assessment of the loan and the loan objectives.
We see it as an obligation, from WAJ's point :of view, to praise and comment Mr. M. Zelaya,
Mr. A. Macoun and Mr. S. Jme'An for their endless efforts to make of this project an indicator
for a new era of sectoral success.
It is true that the project in its totality did not contribute greatly to the final objectives and
outcome. Nevertheless, the components of the project were all successfully implemented. Along
with the assistance through other projects and the in-house developments, WAJ was able to
reverse the declining curves for the various performance indicators.






- 62 -
APPENDIX C






- 63 -
Plan for Operational Phase
The Water Authority has long realized the importance of reaching a point whereby an efficient
operation and proper repair and maintenance techniques of its facilities are materialized and are
in practice.
During the early eighties, the way that the international financing agencies appraised their projects
have, unintentionally, directed the decision makers in the water sector to be fully occupied in new
investments. Due to many reasons, this approach was accepted due to the urgent needs of
providing such basic services.
The picture is changing now. WAJ's main concern is to sustain the investments made, under
various projects in the sector with the highest possible efficiency.
In this context, WAJ has recently formulated two projects with GTZ and JICA for the
enhancement of maintenance and operation activities in the sector.
The GTZ long-term project is entitled Operation Management Support. The project aims at
establishing an up-to-date operation and management system and looking into the decentralization
of functional services. The project is crawling in the right direction. However, good results have
been achieved and we strongly believe that the project will gain more momentum when other
supplementary measures, such as maintenance facilities, are complete.
To that affect, WAJ is presently reviewing the final engineering design and tender documents for
the construction of a new central workshop and two other branches in the northem and southem
parts of the Kingdom. The bid will be issued in December 1994. It is anticipated that the new
workshop will be in service early 1996.
The new workshop will be tooled and equipped under Japan's Grant Aid Schemes through
"JICA". The programme will include, inter-alia, installation, commissioning and training on the
proper and efficient use of the tools and equipment supplied under the said scheme.
The new workshop will, hopefully, reshape the future of maintenance and subsequently enhance
the role of operation as a key factor in the sector activities.






- 64 -
APPENDIX D






-N -,A  , 4  1
JORDAN
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LN 2694-JO)
DR  .DRC(  SUB PROJECT TYPE
RJE G            N                                                   W 1ATER SUPPLY'
A      SEWERAGE
SFWAGE TREATMENT WORKS
NEW PtANTS
EXTENSIONS
P_Ur'PING STATION
(S RSERVOIR
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14 Ahdl. -. S-d,"1  -r0-:h~
'LWFL FIEIDS
-  SARI ANDI EIOM RITENYOI BASINS
CONVEYANCE MAINS
ROADS
RAILROADS
/     NASlONAI LCAPIAL
/     CITES
RIVERSA ADWA 4S
S   0    u                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UDELA7S A-D WADI BEDS
/ -i -k    .  NTFRNATIONAI ROUNDNAIES
I/          
,A.o,.,,jrh. Wt,IAIo..& GAlp
Zi                     Ih                                                                                                                      rb ''1k -
lo F wh v-Sl 50r~~~~~~~~~~ b












