Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21022-KOS
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF DEM 10 MILLION
TO
KOSOVO, FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
(SERBIA and MONTENEGRO) ("KOSOVO")
FOR A
PILOT SME (Small and Medium Enterprises)
LINE OF CREDIT
October 3, 2000
Private and Financial Sector Development
ECSPF
Europe and Central Asia



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 7, 2000)
Currency Unit = DEM
DEM I = US$ 0.453
US$1 = 2.207DEM
FISCAL YEAR
January l-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEF           -       Balkans Enterprise Facility
BPK           -       Bank and Payments Authority of Kosovo
CAS           -       Country Assistance Strategy
CFA           -       Central Fiscal Authority
DEM           -       Deutsche Mark
EIA           -       Environmental Impact Assessment
EAR           -       European Agency for Reconstruction
FMS           -       Financial Management System
FY            -       Fiscal Year
IAS           -       International Accounting Standards
ICB           -       International Competitive Bidding
ICC           -       Industrial Credit Corporation
ICR           -       Implementation Completion Report
ICU           -       Interim Credit Unit
IDA           -       International Development Association
IFI           -       International Financial Institutions
IFC           -       International Finance Corporation
IS            -       International Shopping
IT            -       Information Technology
LACI          -       Loan Administration Change Initiative
LIB           -       Limited International Bidding
NS            -       National Shopping
OSCE          -       Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
PAD           -       Project Appraisal Document
PAS           -       Procurement Accredited Specialist
PIP           -       Project Implementation Plan
PPF           -       Project Preparation Facility
RPA                   Regional Procurement Assistance
SME           -       Small and Medium Enterprise
SOE           -       Statement of Expenditure
UNMIK         -       United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director: Christiaan Poortman
Sector Manager/Director: Ilham Zurayk/Paul Siegelbaum
Team Leader: Gerardo Corrochano



Kosovo
PILOT SME (Small and Medium Enterprises)
LINE OF CREDIT
Table of Content
A: PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE ..........................................................................                                          2
1. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE: ..........................................................................                                     2
2. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS: ..........................................................................                                        2
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT ..........................................................................                                                     3
1. SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) GOAL SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT: ..........3
2. MAIN  SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY: .......................................................................... 3
3. SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT AND STRATEGIC CHOICES: ....................................... 5
C: PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY ..........................................................................                                            6
1. PROJECT COMPONENTS: ..........................................................................                                                6
2. KEY POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT: .............................................. 6
3. BENEFITS AND TARGET POPULATION: ..........................................................................                                    6
4. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS: ...................................................................... 7
D. PROJECT  RATIONALE  .......................................................................... 11
1. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION: ................................................... 11
2. MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES: .......... 12
3. LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT DESIGN: ................................................,.,.,.,.,,.,.12
4. INDICATIONS OF BORROWER COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP: ...............................................                                            13
5. VALUE ADDED OF BANK  SUPPORT IN THIS PROJECT: ............................................... 13
E: SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS: ...............................................                                                                       13
1. ECONOMIC: ...............................................                                                                                    13
2. FINANCIAL: ...............................................                                                                                   13
3. TECHNICAL: ............................................... 14
4. INSTITUTIONAL: ............................................... 14
5. SOCIAL: ................................................ I5
6. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT: ...............................................                                                                    15
7. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH: ...............................................                                                                      15
F: SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS ...............................................                                                                        15
1. SUSTAINABILITY: ...............................................                                                                              15
2. CRITICAL RISKS: ............................................... 17
3. POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS: ............................................... 1 8
G: MAIN CONDITIONS ...............................................                                                                                  18
1. EFFECTIVENESS CONDITIONS: ...............................................                                                                   18
H: READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION ...............................................                                                                    19
1: COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES ...............................................                                                                    19
ANNEX 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY ...............................................                                                                    20



ANNEX  2: PROJECT DESCRIPTION ..................................................................                                  21
ANNEX 2A: THE BALKANS ENTERPRISE FACILITY (BEF) AND THE PILOT SME LINE OF CREDIT IN
Kosovo .........................................................2.............................................        ........ 26
ANNEX  3: ESTIMATED  PROJECT COSTS ..................................................................                             29
ANNEX  4: COST  EFFECTIVENESS ANALYSIS SUMMARY ........................................................... 30
ANNEX  5: FINANCIAL  SUMMARY ..................................................................                                   32
ANNEX 6: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS ...................................... 33
ANNEX 6  - TABLE A: PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS .                                    ........................................... 36
ANNEx 6 - TABLE B: THRESHOLDS FOR PROCUREMENT METHODS AND PRIOR REVIEW.                                                        3 7
ANNEX 6  - TABLE C: ALLOCATION OF GRANT PROCEEDS ........................................................                  ...... 37
ANNEX  7: PROJECT PROCESSING  BUDGET AND  SCHEDULE .................................................... 38
ANNEX  8: DOCUMENTS IN  THE PROJECT  FILE* .....................................................                                  39



Kosovo
PILOT SME (Small and Medium Enterprises)
LINE OF CREDIT
Project Appraisal Document
Private and Financial Sector Development
ECSPF
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Date: October 3, 2000                             Team Leader: Gerardo Corrochano
Country Manager/Director: Christiaan Poortman     Sector Manager/Director: liham Zurayk/Paul Siegelbaum
Project ID: SF-P069629-LEN-BB                     Sector: Financial Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Line of Credit                Theme(s): Institution Building / Financial intermediation
Poverty Targeted Intervention:    []  Yes  [X ] No
Project Financing Data
[] Loan      [] Credit      [] Grant       [] Guarantee    [X] Other [specify]:
Grant From The Trust Fund for Kosovo
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount US$m (DEMm): 5.0 (10.00)
Proposed terms:  []  To be defined      []  Multicurrency      [X] Single,currency
Grace period (years):           N.A.
Years to maturity:              N.A.
Commitment fee:                N.A.
Service charge:                N.A.
Front-end fee on Bank loan:    N.A.
International Development Association (IDA)                     0.00             10.00             10.00
European Agency for Reconstruction (EAR)                        0.59              9.41             10.00
Sub-loan Recipients-Small/Medium Enterprises (SMEs)             2.00              0.00              2.00
Total:                                                          2.59             19.41             22.00
Recipient: United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo (UNMIK) for the benefit of Kosovo
Guarantor: N.A.
Responsible agency: United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo (UNMIK)
Estimated disbursements  Bank FYIDEM Million):
Annual        1.7         4.8          3.5
Cumulative       1.7          6.5         10.0
Project implementation period: 3 years: FYO1-FY03
Expected effectiveness date: 10/31/2000              Expected closing date: 12/31/2003
Implementing agency: UTNMIK and the Interim Credit Unit (ICU)
Contact person:       David Douglas
Address:              Pristina, Kosovo
Tel:     381-38-500-223       Fax:       873-732-154-522     E-mail:



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective:
(see Annex I)
The primary objective of the proposed line of credit for SMEs is to serve as a pilot project to provide
financing to SMEs on market-based terms in an effort to jump-start production and economic activity of the
private sector'. Loans to eligible SMEs are for much needed inputs and repairs, which in turn are expected
to revive some industrial production and finance an increased proportion of high value-added services.
The secondary objective is to reinforce reformns in the financial sector incentive structure and institutional
framework introduced in recent months by UNMIK to help re-establish basic credit management capacity
and loan administration skills of newly emerging banks, and to assist SMEs by increasing financial
discipline and planning capacity through the credit process.
2. Key performance indicators:
(see Annex 1)
Progress towards achievement of the primary project objective will be monitored by the following
perfornance indicators:
L  Loan Volume: An initial target of 60 "first-cycle" loans should be originated, and an additional 43
loans should be "recycled" in years 2-3 of the implementation period2. Targets will be subject to
flexibility, depending on the ability of the SME sector to present viable proposals, and the average
size of the loan requests and disbursements made.
* Cumulative Lending: Total cumulative lending should be at 92 and 171 percent of total loan funding
commitments by the end of Years 2 and3 of the implementation period3, respectively;
* Cost Recovery: Income derived from interest on loans and service fees for loan commitments and
origination should exceed the local cost of operations (personnel, office rental, supplies, etc.) as long
as provisioning requirements for non-performing loans do not exceed modest levels4;
* Job Creation: Loans under the pilot SME line of credit are expected to directly generate some 600
new jobs, and help to create about 1,500 jobs in total (including contracting work)5.
The proposed line of credit is a joint project of the European Agency for Reconstruction (EAR) and the
International Development Administration (IDA) acting as administrator of the Trust Fund for Kosovo.
2      This would include 10 loans in Year 1, 30 in Year 2, and 20 in Year 3. The decline in Year 3 assumes the
beginning of the exit strategy as emerging banks begin to assume a greater share of lending to SMEs. Peak
outstanding loan balance for first cycle loans should approximate 54% of total loan funds committed under the credit
line in Year 2. This is based on 30 new loans originated in year 2, plus two of the 10 new loans made in year I still
outstanding. Average loan size is DEM 250,000. Total loan funds committed to the line of credit component are
assumed to be DEM 15 million.
3       Total cumulative principal disbursements of DEM 13.8 million by the end of year 2 and DEM 25.6 million
by the end of Year 3 would be 92 and 171 percent of total loan funds, respectively. More than DEM 4.6 million in
interest earnings (prior to the cost of operations and any problems of perfofrmance) could be generated from such
volume, which could then be used for additional loans if justified.
4      This should be measured on the basis of an indicative cost of funds, namely three percent above the
German Government Debt reference rate that would be used as a barometer of financing charges to participating
banks. The three percent figure should be retained in loan loss reserves to cover defaults on principal and to
facilitate the proposed exit strategy by making the portfolio as attractive to prospective purchasers as possible. A net
spread of eight percent above the cost of funds would be used to defray local operating costs.
5      These estimates are based on the experience of the ERP credit line in the Federation of Bosnia-
Herzegovina.



3
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project:
(see Annex 1)
Document number: N/A                             Date of latest CAS discussion: N/A
The proposed project is consistent with the Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo and the objectives of
the joint European Commission/World Bank Program for Reconstruction and Recovery in Kosovo of (i)
encouraging the development of the private sector, and (ii) improving private enterprise access to capital.
Further, the project is also highly complementary to the IFC participation in the Balkans Enterprise Facility
(BEF) aimed at providing advisory services to private sector companies and to addressing constraints in the
enabling business environment of the Balkan Region.
Relevant Documents: Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo, September 1999; Program for
Reconstruction and Recovery of Kosovo, November 1999; Proposed IFC Participation in and Contribution
to the Balkans Enterprise Facility (BEF), January 2000; Economic and Social Reforms for Peace and
Reconciliation, June 2000; Kosovo Pipeline (BEF), June 2000; Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo -
Progress Report, June 2000.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
(a) Strategic setting:
The proposed project has been conceived as a joint effort of the European Agency for Reconstruction
(EAR) and the International Development Association (IDA) to address the current emergency situation
in Kosovo, and the general absence of sources of financing to SMEs. In this context, the urgent and pilot
nature of the operation should be emphasized. The proposed scheme is designed as an interim
mechanism to rapidly channel financial resources to private SMEs to re-start production, create
employment, and ultimately contribute to poverty alleviation. Further, it parallels ongoing reforms in the
legal and institutional framework in the banking and enterprise sectors that are expected to be supported
by subsequent donor/IFI assistance. It should also be emphasized that the proposed scheme is designed to
be maintained as a lean and simple operation. The Bank and EAR will also need to periodically evaluate
assumptions and established parameters to adjust to rapidly changing conditions, and to foster the
competitive development of emerging private financial institutions and SMEs.
EAR is financing all start-up costs through an open tender process, with additional funds for sub-loans.
IDA will provide the bulk of initial funds for sub-loans. Additional donor assistance will be sought to
provide additional resources for lending and technical assistance. If proven successful, the project is
expected to serve as a platform to facilitate the channeling of additional donors' funds to SMEs within an
UNMIK-approved framework.
The proposed project is being closely coordinated with the activities of the BEF in Kosovo.6 Both
initiatives are expected to be highly complementary.
(b) Enterprise sector:
Kosovo's enterprise sector is made up of two basic components. First, there is a large population of
relatively small privately owned enterprises that are primarily engaged in trade and services. This
includes a substantial parallel segment that is expected to register or has recently registered with the fiscal
6      The BEF has been established to provide pre- and post-investment advisory services to SMEs in the Balkan
Region. BEF activity is active in Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, FYR Macedonia, and in Kosovo. (See Annex
2A for a profile of the BEF.)



4
authorities, but are currently difficult to distinguish from formerly registered private enterprises. On this
note, substantial progress has been made in launching a new registration effort (see below). Second, there
is a finite population of publicly owned enterprises formerly engaged in all sectors of the economy, but
predominately located within the industrial sector. These publicly owned enterprises are generally in
poor condition, although there is evidence that some have re-started operations.
As of September 2000, some 25,000 privately owned enterprises operate in Kosovo. These enterprises are
estimated to contribute between 70 to 80 percent of total GDP. An EAR funded credit demand survey of
SMEs shows that 80% of the enterprises identify the lack of financial resources as the major obstacle. In
essence, general features that characterize the current situation of the enterprise sector in Kosovo include:
* There is limited industrial production. Thus, Kosovo's emerging private sector does not include any
significant ongoing industrial production or processing activities;
* There is virtually no access to credit for enterprises. Only one micro-enterprise bank (MEB-Kosovo)
has obtained a license in late January 2000. MEB's loan range is from DEM 1,000 to DEM 50,000
and is generally aimed at commercial traders. A non-bank financial institution has also been recently
licensed, although there is little reported activity to date.
* A new formal registration system of enterprises for fiscal purposes has been established. Twenty-five
thousand private enterprises have submitted applications and 12,000 have received a final registration
number. A proper enterprise registration system, and the creation of a registry to be kept by the
economic court, is being developed. There is no effective formal sector tax collection, aside from
customs, and the distinction in the economy between the formal and informal sectors is virtually non-
existent. The overall framework of property rights and contract enforcement is underdeveloped.
Growth in the enterprise sector is expected to be driven almost completely by privately-owned SMEs, old
and new. Therefore, UNMIK's private sector development strategy relies on the implementation of a
regulatory environment that results in making the costs of operating legally significantly less than the
costs of operating illegally. Further, the legal regime is expected to provide for and promote the
availability of credit by protecting private property rights, allowing for the use of collateral for lending,
and ensuring that contracts are enforced. Therefore, the strategy will (i) promote the development of
private enterprises already within the official economy, (ii) attempt to embrace the parallel economy and
bring it within the official economy through a combination of inducements and requirements, and (iii)
seek ways to transfer potentially viable public enterprises to private ownership/management as well as
free up the assets of non-viable enterprises through liquidation.
(c)    Banking sector
MEB Kosovo is the only licensed bank. To date, MEB has established five branches throughout Kosovo.
MEB offers current accounts, fixed term deposits, local and international money transfers, and loans from
DEM 1,000 to DEM 50,000. Six banks have obtained preliminary licenses. Amongst these five are "old"
banks (banks licensed by the former National Bank of Yugoslavia). However, capacity to provide
meaningful and sustainable levels of intermediation is expected to take years to build.
Two banking regulations7 were passed in late 1999. These regulations create a banking agency (for
licensing and supervision), define banking activities, establish prudential guidelines and governance and
management requirements, provide for corrective actions, and outline bank resolution/liquidation
guidelines. A payments system was established in April 2000. Major obstacles to the creation of a
financial sector include:
* The absence of licensed banks capable of competing along commercial lines;
7      Regulation No. 20 "On the Banking and Payments Authority of Kosovo", November 15, 1999, and
Regulation 21, "On Bank Licensing, Supervision and Regulation", also dated November 15, 1999. The first one
addresses monetary and payment issues. The second addresses bank licensing, supervision and regulation.



5
* The inadequacy or non-existence of meaningful financial information and management systems in the
banking (and enterprise) sector;
* The lack of adequate banking sector infrastructure (e.g., laws and regulations, functioning judicial
capacity, accounting/audit framework) to provide the needed guidelines and parameters for a well-
managed and viable banking sector;
* The lack of an adequate framework for the development of secured lending transactions;
* The absence of financial intermediation (deposit-taking or lending) resulting from a lack of public
confidence, past resource misallocation and politicization of bank lending.
Measures are being taken to address some of these obstacles but for the foreseeable future, the banking
sector is expected to be small in assets, and limited in terms of intermediation. Most of the focus is
expected to be on fee-generating services (e.g., transfers, safekeeping, and payroll). Where lending
occurs, it is mostly expected to be provided to small-scale or micro-enterprises engaged in rapid turnover
businesses (e.g., commercial trade) rather than for investment projects with maturities exceeding one
year. This has prompted the need for an interim vehicle to ensure that viable SMEs are able to access
needed credit until the banking sector has the funds, inclination and capacity to lend to SMEs.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project is of an emergency and pilot nature to quickly restore and expand operations of
about 60-100 viable SMEs without waiting for more time-consuming legal and institutional reforms in the
banking and enterprise sectors. In this context, while the project is not a policy-driven vehicle to further
financial or enterprise reform in Kosovo, it is designed to be consistent with what those reforms would
encompass under more normal circumstances.  Therefore, consistent with its stated objective, the
proposed project seeks to:
* Provide timely and prudently-managed access to credit to eligible SMEs;
* Provide an additional incentive to SMEs to become part of the formal system (now that the formal
registration process has been established); and
* Foster the development of basic intermediation skills with training and technical assistance for credit
analysts and bankers.
If the project is able to achieve these objectives, it is believed that the pilot will have promoted the
development of financial information and management systems in the banking (and enterprise) sectors. It
is also believed that the transfer of these skills to the banking system will improve management in these
institutions, and help to foster public confidence.



6
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components:
(see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown)
All figures below are indicative and assume that there will be limited bank lending to SMEs at least until
Year 2 of the project. Should a greater number of banks receive licenses and show interest in and
capacity for lending to SMEs, the project would expect to reduce its proportion of direct lending to SMEs
and increasingly serve as an apex for on-lending through banks. This would significantly shift the
composition of ICU Operations figures towards TA/training via direct work with bankers, and away from
direct ICU lending to SMEs.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N  N 
Interim Credit Unit (ICU), SME Line    Financial       15.0         75.0      10.0       100.0
of Credit                           Sector
0  Sub-loans                        Development
ICU, Operations                    Institutional       5.0          25.0       0.0         0.0
*  Administration/Management*       Development
*  Credit management (direct
lending to SMEs)
*  Training and technical assistance
(lending through banks)
Total          20.0         100.0      10.0       100.0
Total Project Costs                                   20.0          100.0     10.0       100.0
Total Financing Required                              20.0          100.0     10.0       100.0
* Assumes Project Management Advisor can provide needed credit management and advisory services to assist with all ICU
activities. Includes ICU's FMS capabilities.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project is primarily designed to provide urgent funding to SMEs, yet it is supportive of specific
policy reforms to establish a competitive banking system in Kosovo. The project's technical assistance
and training components are expected to support institutional capacity building in the banking sector. TA
and training financed by the IFC under the BEF are also expected to enhance management capacity in
the SME sector.
3. Benefits and target population:
Immediate benefits for the project are increased economic activity, employment, and income of eligible
SMEs, resulting from some 60 first round sub-loans (average size DEM 250,000). Considering that a
portion of these loans are expected to be "recycled" quickly (within 6 to 12 months), it is expected that
additional loans will be rolled over or recycled based on performance and demonstrated financing need.
Thus, within the proposed time period in which loans will be originated (calendar 2000-2002), resulting
investments could create some 600 new jobs directly (at 10 new jobs per loan), in addition to indirect,
part-time and contractual job creation through sector linkages (which will bring down the credit-per-job
ratio). Based on figures from another comparable project in which about 174 jobs were created per US$ I
million in total lending8, jobs created as a result of "first-cycle" loans are projected to be about 1,300 on
the assumption that about DEM 15 million is provided in loan funds.
s      It was estimated that the ERP credit line in the Federation of Bosnia-Herzegovina created 4,850 jobs in
total based on $27.9 million in on-lent funds to private SMEs. See Implementation Completion Report, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Emergency Recovery Project, World Bank, June 25, 1999.



7
Beyond these direct benefits, the project contribute to the larger agenda of banking sector reform in
Kosovo by (i) introducing credit management capacity; and (ii) establishing normal commercial credit
relations between banks and enterprises.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Interim Credit Unit (ICU)
Because of the dire state of the banking system in Kosovo, the use of local banks at the outset of the
project as a delivery mechanism for credit to SMEs is unfeasible. In fact the only licensed bank (MEB-
Kosovo) is involved in lending activities between DEM 1,000 and DEM 50,000 and up to DEM 100,000
in exceptional cases. Therefore, UNMIK has established an operationally autonomous entity in the form of
an Interim Credit Unit (ICU) to implement the project, and to directly lend to qualifying SMEs until
emerging banks demonstrate capacity to assume this role. It is also recommended and built into the project
concept that the ICU will phase out as a direct lender as quickly as possible so as to not impede market
development of the banking system. It is the project's objective to reduce direct lending to SMEs as
promptly as is feasible, to experience a corresponding proportional shift in lending to/through stable banks
(apex role), and then to be able to exit all together from the credit market.
The ICU formally reports to UNMIK, which provides a basic oversight role to ensure that the project is
being implemented according to agreed objectives and operating manuals. The ICU has been granted a
license by BPK as a non-bank financial institution. As a condition of the registration, the ICU has to submit
quarterly reports to BPK and be audited annually. The focus of BPK surveillance is on how the project is
supporting or infringing on banking sector development (e.g., interest rates charged relative to "market",
target markets, loan maturities).
The ICU will perform basic credit risk evaluation, along with required administrative and financial
management functions. Technical assistance and training programs to emerging banks will also be
implemented by the ICU. On the basis of an open tender financed by the EAR and under European Union
guidelines, a team of highly qualified international experts from the Industrial Credit Corporation of Ireland
(ICC Consulting) has been appointed to run the ICU. Local expertise will gradually be built into the ICU.
As it is envisioned that the banking environment will start to improve in one to two years, the ICU will have
a clearly defined exit strategy from its direct lender function. Thus, under strictly defined qualifying criteria
and close coordination with BPK, the ICU is expected to gradually increase lending flows through emerging
private banks until it reaches the point where it can be operated strictly as an apex, with its direct lending
portfolio folded into the banking system. In this context, from the outset, the project relies on BPK to
signal when private banks have the capacity to assume greater responsibility for lending based on the new
prudential regulatory framework. As such capacity expands, direct lending of the ICU will contract, and the
focus of the ICU will be increasingly as an apex institution on-lending through banks.
It is envisioned that by the end of the project implementation period, more than one bank will be in a
position to bid for portions of the loan portfolio generated by the project. This transfer of the ICU's
portfolio will be made in an open and transparent manner that will contribute to the expected growing
strength of well-managed banks. Alternatively, if UNMIK believes the discount to the banks will be
excessively deep, alternative approaches will be explored to either increase fiscal proceeds, or to more
broadly distribute the benefits of the discount.
In summary, the ICU will perform the following functions:
*  Serve as an interim source of direct lending to qualified SMEs;
*  Serve as a source of "on-lending" to banks on a limited basis initially, and increasingly over time as
bank capacity and willingness to manage SME credit risk increases;



8
Supply needed bankers/credit analysts from market economies to work with Kosovars in developing
market-based credit risk evaluation and monitoring systems to assess and process loan applications,
monitor performance, and provide written accounts of performance for internal purposes as well as to
bank supervisors at the BPK.
Participating banks and enterprises
At present, there are no banks in Kosovo that could or are willing to intermediate the SME credit line.
However, it is expected that this will change in the next year or two, and that interest will be expressed to
participate by emerging private banks. The ICU will seek to work with any licensed private banks subject to
agreed qualifying criteria and the recommendation of BPK, subject to the final approval of the World Bank
and the EAR. Anticipated criteria for increasing bank involvement in the project include financial and
managerial indicators9.
In principle, all private enterprises are eligible to benefit from the project. However, while UNMIK has
established a business registration for fiscal purposes, the enterprise law and the enterprise registration
system will not be in place in the immediate future. A measure of flexibility may be required as the system
evolves, perhaps in the form of limited lending to unregistered enterprises (e.g., short-term, low ceilings)
and more expansive lending to registered firms (e.g., longer-term, higher ceilings). The ICU will seek
UNMIK's guidance on these issues to ensure the project is implemented in a manner consistent with
UNMIK policies. This and other issues will be part of the UNMIK "oversight" role. Ideally, benefiting
enterprises are expected to (i) be privately owned and operated, and be properly registered with the fiscal
authority, and when available, with the enterprise registry system; (ii) be involved primarily in light
manufacturing or agro-processing, or in high value-added service activities which support the restoration
of industrial or food production or other critical sectors; (iii) demonstrate prior operating experience in the
activity to be financed; and (iv) show financial capacity to repay principal and service interest through
specified debt-equity ratios, debt service coverage ratios, and working capital figures. Management will
also need to be approved as qualified recipients, based on local market knowledge.
Sub-loan eligibility criteria
Basic parameters for sub-loan eligibility for financing from the line of credit are those which (i) are
supported by a viable and approved business plan; (ii) do not exceed DEM 300,000 in borrowing needs
from the ICU/participating bank (to allow for more recipients to benefit and for risk diversification); (iii) do
not exceed DEM 500,000 after the borrower has demonstrated performance according to terms of
agreements with the ICU/participating bank (usually based on at least one cycle of borrowing and service);
(iv) include an adequate share of borrowings reserved for working capital purposes to ensure sufficient
inputs once new machinery/equipment is installed (where relevant); (v) have a material asset or equity stake
in place on the part of the prospective borrower to ensure the borrower is taking risk and making a personal
financial contribution to the enterprise's overall debt capacity; (vi) have the greatest prospects for success
based on the strength of the business plan, the character of management, and the ability to generate strong
cash flow based on prevailing market conditions; and (vii) represent business activities not on a negative list
of impermissible activities specified by EARJWorld Bank or activities which are inconsistent with banking
sector regulations.
Lending arrangements
Given the absence of relevant intermediation parameters in Kosovo, the proposed lending arrangement
should be interpreted as a tentative mechanism that is intended to remain flexible during project
9      Some of the indicators are expected to include (i) increasing capital and improving capital adequacy; (ii)
growing assets of high quality; (iii) growing and strengthening earnings trends; (iv) demonstrated liquidity management
capacity; (v) development of sound internal audit and management information systems; (vi) improving and effective
corporate governance; and (vii) general movement towards adequate risk management systems based on compliance
with prudential regulations, and consistent with stable banking practices within the context of the Kosovo's market.



9
implementation, and capable of adapting as market conditions and the institutional framework improve and
more relevant market parameters become available. This flexibility and periodic reevaluation of lending
arrangements will be crucial to guarantee that the proposed interim mechanism does not become a source of
distortion to emerging market conditions, nor that it precludes the competitive development of financial
intermediation from newly established private banks. This will be a central feature of collaborative ICU
efforts to feed into the UNMIK oversight role and BPK surveillance.
The ICU will perform two types of lending: (i) lending to participating banks from the ICU, which will on-
lend to enterprises and assume the credit risk, and (ii) direct lending to eligible enterprises. German
Govemment Debt rates are used as reference rates to simulate the cost of funding of the ICU, as they offer a
range of maturities similar to the loans that will be made under the project, and they are in the currency
utilized by Kosovo. Such a pricing scheme could be easily converted to a Euro-based scheme if Kosovo
adopts the Euro, or a local currency linked to the Euro, during the period of project implementation. The
pricing scheme proposed below is tentative and would be subject to periodic review during project
supervision.
For loans made from the ICU to banks, it is envisioned that the ICU will initially charge 3 percent above the
DEM reference rate. At current market rates, this will approximate 7-8 percent depending on the maturity.
The margin above the DEM reference rate will be utilized to simulate DEM cost of funds of participating
banks. Banks will then be able to charge up to an additional 8 percent above their borrowing costs from the
ICU, resulting in a end-user rate of up to 15-16 percent. This estimated rate is expected to provide an
attractive spread for the banks, and be well below the effective rate charged in informal markets (allegedly
20 percent a month). Over time, these rates should be permitted to move up or down based on banks' actual
operating costs, risks assumed, and general rates and strategies prevalent in the marketplace. Above all,
early on, it is expected that net interest margins on lending activities will be very attractive given the limited
competition and the ability of financial institutions to be selective with regard to the quality of their lending
activity. Preliminary discussions with MEB-Kosovo confirmed that they would be interested at a later date
in participating under such conditions if the pricing was attractive.
The project will seek to adjust pricing to increase participation by licensed and approved banks in a manner
that is also prudent with regard to ICU operations and management guidelines. For instance, if the "cost of
funds" rate to banks is considered high relative to deposit rates, there could be room to adjust downward
based on the demonstrated performance of the banks in managing their loan portfolios, particularly as the
banks themselves might be better credit risks for the ICU than the SMEs. This is an area where the ICU will
seek guidance from BPK in terms of rates charged to safe and sound institutions. Again, the focus will be on
sound ICU management practices in a manner which is consistent with the needs of prudently managed and
regulated banking. These considerations are central to the ICU's reporting to UNMIK and BPK to ensure
consistency with UNMIK policy objectives.
For loans made from the ICU to enterprises, the ICU will initially charge the same rate to the enterprises as
the bank-based formula presented above (end-user rate of 15-16 percent). Thus, SMEs should be indifferent
to the source of funding, as the rates will be the same and neutral throughout most/all of the project.
However, these rates could be adjusted if the SMEs turn out to be higher risks than the banks. Again, one of
the key objectives will be to move from direct lending to an apex on-lending role as soon as possible. While
the ICU will not have to pay the 3 percent margin above the DEM reference rate, the ICU will seek to
maintain a reserve position of at least 3 percent of total loan funds (e.g., starting at about DEM 450,000).
All earnings from the project will be retained within the ICU's accounts, and will be used to cover operating
costs, provisions for loan losses, and other expenses.
Disbursement arrangements from donors to the ICU
On-lending arrangements for donor resources will run from a Special Account in a commercial bank
established by the ICU (or participating banks) to suppliers for imported goods, and through the BPK-
supervised and administered payments system for domestically purchased goods. Most will be done



10
electronically based on presentation of proper documentation once invoices are produced and verified by the
ICU. Transfers into Kosovo will be in DEM. For transactions abroad, the commercial bank administering
the Special Account will apply the appropriate exchange rate'".
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements
The ICU has developed and implemented an accounting system and financial reporting systems which has
been reviewed, and found satisfactory, by a Bank FMS Specialist. By effectiveness, A Bank FMS Specialist
will assess the internal controls, planning and budgeting functions of the ICU. The ICU will utilize
traditional disbursements at the start of the project and consider the move to PMR based disbursements by
June 30, 2001.
The ICU and banks will maintain records of all transactions under the SME line of credit in accordance with
lAS-based accounting practices. Accounts will be audited no later than mid-2001, expected to be no more
than nine months after project start-up. Independent auditors acceptable to EARlWorld Bank will conduct
and report on annual audits (or as necessary). Based on regular reports from the ICU, the program audit,
and regular supervision missions, the World Bank office in Pristina (in coordination with EAR) will monitor
program implementation on an ongoing basis. Collaboration with the internal audit function of other
participating donors will be encouraged. Findings from all World Bank supervision and reporting will be
regularly provided to UNMIK and BPK.
Procurement arrangements
The procurement of goods and services of the Bank-financed components will be procured in accordance
with the Bank's latest procurement guidelines: "Procurement under IBRD Loans and World Bank Credits"
(dated January 1995; last revision, January 1999) and "Selection and Employment of Consultants" (dated
January 1997; last revision, January 1999). Kosovo's threshold for procurement methods have been
consulted with the Bank's Regional Procurement Assistance office. As individual loans are not expected
to exceed DEM 500,000 (and may possibly have a ceiling as low as DEM 300,000), simplified
procurement procedures are envisaged. There are no problems with procurement with regard to
implementation of FMS and other Bank requirements for Project approval. A Bank PAS is part of the
project team and will assess the capacity of ICU prior to effectiveness.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements
In coordination with EAR, the Bank will carry out regular project supervision. The process of prior review
has been designed for direct lending to SMEs, as well as for on-lending through banks. In the case of direct
lending to SMEs, (i) the first three first-cycle sub-loans financed by the project will be subject to prior
review irrespective of loan size, as will (ii) the first three first-cycle sub-loans financed by the project in
excess of DEM 200,000; these are not mutually exclusive, so prior review of the first three loans may satisfy
both conditions simultaneously if the first three sub-loans to SMEs are at least DEM 200,000. In the case of
lending to/through banks, the first three first-cycle sub-loans financed by the project will be subject to prior
review irrespective of loan size. In all cases, (i) ICU staff will carry out audits of sub-loans as part of the
credit appraisal and monitoring process, (ii) the Bank and EAR will have the right to post review of any and
all sub-loans, and (iii) the annual external audit will closely review the procedures followed in making credit
decisions, approving and disbursing sub-loan amounts, and following up on repayment and interest service.
Findings from these reviews will be shared with BPK as required.
Role of Co-financiers
Co-financing for sub-loans and needed technical assistance for project implementation have been agreed
between the European Agency for Reconstruction and the World Bank. EAR is financing all TA for project
set-up and implementation, and a portion of funds for sub-loans. The World Bank is providing resources
'0    To the extent that the project would overlap with a period when the DEM ceases to exist in favor of the
Euro, the same practices would apply as needed.



I I
exclusively for sub-loans. Both organizations have worked together to build consensus for continued
cooperation, and to develop needed TORs for project implementation. Both institutions are committed to
closely coordinating their activities in support of the proposed project.
Role of the IFC and the Balkan Enterprise Facility (BEF)See Annex 2A)
The project is highly complementary to the BEF. It is envisioned that the BEF will establish business
advisory services to support SMEs in the region, including in Kosovo. In particular the BEF has developed
a pipeline of 15 suitable candidates for the line of credit. Moreover, the BEF, in coordination with the ICU
management, is developing appropriate pre and post investment assistance to SMEs that will receive a credit
from the ICU. General scope of services to be provided by the BEF include (i) assistance to SMEs to
present viable proposals to potential financiers, (ii) post-financing assistance to SMEs to implement
investment proposals, (iii) training and education, (iv) input and analysis to foster improvements in the
business environment, and (v) a mechanism to share informnation and to netwvork.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Several alternatives were considered and rejected. These include:
Use of other financial intermediaries as Principals: Alternative to the proposal to create the ICU, the project
team considered the possibility of using other financial intermediaries. Because of the dire state of the
banking system in Kosovo, the exclusive use of banks at the outset of the project as a delivery mechanism
for credit to SMEs is considered unfeasible. MEB-Kosovo is at present the only licensed bank, and it
extends loans up to DEM 50,000. MEB-Kosovo can statutorily extend credit at levels higher than DEM
100,000 (with Board approval), but its self-imposed limit to date has been about half this amount. The
project is seeking to set MEB-Kosovo's ceiling as the ICU's floor for lending. The ICU will not crowd
out markets where MEB-Kosovo or other future emerging banks are attempting to establish a market.
Thus, while the project does not envision using other licensed intermediaries for now, it will not encroach
on the market development of licensed private banks.
Use of other financial intermediaries as Agents: Even when more banks are licensed, it is likely that their
capital levels will not be sufficient to engage in the size of loans of the ICU. One way around this problem
would be to allow banks to serve as agents on behalf of the ICU, thus collecting fees for their services.
While this approach may solve the capital problem, it does not strengthen the incentive system for prudent
risk management. Given the importance of an appropriate incentive structure for viable commercial
banking, the project team concluded that it is essential that the delivery vehicle assume the credit risk.
Efforts to underwrite high quality loans and to collect on these loans are far more effective when an
institution assumes risk than when it serves as an agent. Thus, this option has been rejected.
Alternative ways to establish the ICU: At an earlier stage of project preparation, it was envisioned that the
ICU could be established as a special finance unit under the direct administration of UNMIK. Given the
complexity and volume of tasks already assigned to UNMIK, the project team, in consultation with UNMIK
counterparts, concluded that a mechanism with UNMIK oversight but less direct involvement was
warranted. Thus, it was agreed that the project will be implemented with the establishment of the ICU as an
operationally autonomous entity, with reporting obligations to UNMIK and BPK. All parties agreed this
was the best way to professionalize management of the project, to isolate the credit functions of the ICU
from possible non-commercial interference, and to maintain a suitable "public sector governance'
framework within the practical bounds of capacity. UNMIK authorities and the World Bank both expressed
their approval of the selected team of ICC consultants, and signaled confidence in the ability of IUNMIK and
BPK to play their respective roles.



12
Additional project components and grant size: The initial project concept included an additional project
component dealing with the creation of an informal out-of-court arbitration process to alleviate doubts about
contract enforcement and the inadequate framework for secured transactions. While these issues remain a
serious concern, it was recognized that they are very complex and will require far greater effort in termns of
project preparation. Past experience in the region demonstrates that design of the line of credit project needs
to be kept simple, and that at this stage priority should be given to re-establishing basic lending as soon as
possible.
Larger credit line: At an initial stage, it was envisioned that a considerably larger credit scheme could be
structured, calling on other donors for assistance. It was decided that a small pilot delivery mechanism was
the most appropriate way to jump-start lending activities while closely analyzing developments in the
nascent banking sector. This issue will be re-addressed during project implementation, depending on
success in meeting project objectives.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
(completed, ongoing and planned)
There have been several ongoing proposals to introduce lines of credit to micro-enterprises and the
agriculture sector from donors and NGOs. However, only a few have reached concrete steps of
implementation. Even among those being implemented, none has extended loans that exceed DEM 90,000.
Other than the activities related to one NGO ", none has yet focused on lending to SMEs.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
There are no lessons from previous World Bank implementation of similar projects in Kosovo. However,
the Bank's experience in supporting a line of credit in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the
Emergency Recovery Project (ERP)-along with assistance from the Governments of the Netherlands,
Germany and Italy-helped provide a model, which could be adapted for replication in Kosovo. This
project combined lending resources (from IDA, a Dutch Trust Fund, and later Italy) and intensive
technical assistance (mainly provided by GTZ of Germany) in an independent special purpose finance
unit to achieve 95 percent repayment rates and skills transfer to the banking sector. The ERP line of
credit provided loans of up to DEM 300,000 per borrower to SMEs in combination with bank training to
improve credit risk evaluation and credit management. (Some training and lending was also coordinated
in conjunction with a USAID bank-training project.) The project was successful in contributing to banks'
capacity to assess credit and manage risk, and to structure such analysis in conjunction with the
introduction of new prudential regulations utilized by the banking supervisory authorities to assess the
financial condition of banks.
The Bank also has experience from a variety of activities in Albania. While these are more in the micro-
finance realm and may not be directly transferable as a model for the SME line of credit in Kosovo, other
characteristics of these projects such as cross-guarantees are expected to be taken into account to improve
project performance prospects.
The design of the SME line of credit in Kosovo is structured to evolve as if it were operating in a business
climate featuring competitive and market-based commercial banks in the absence of a fully developed
institutional framework for modem banking. Meanwhile, it is also designed to avoid "crowding out"
emerging banks, and seeks to work with them on an increasing basis as their capacity develops. Thus, the
design includes:
* Offering simple loan products;
According to BPK, Mercy Corps International had made 19 loans as of late 1999. The average was DEM
50,000, with the largest at DEM 90,000.



13
*  Setting interest rates to cover operational costs and build needed reserves without distorting the
market or undercutting the development private banking institutions;
*  Recruiting adequate numbers of experienced bankers/credit advisors;
*  Providing incentives to staff consistent with performance objectives;
*  Providing technical assistance for local bankers (in banks) and credit analysts;
*  Providing business advisory services to enterprises (via BEF).
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The proposed operation is part of the emergency program to assist Kosovo's reconstruction and recovery
effort that was presented by UNMIK to international donors. UJNMIK has coordinated closely with EAR
and the World Bank, provided useful and constructive feedback as the project design has evolved, and
more recently produced an "Internal Memorandum" that has authorized the establishment of the ICU by
UNMIK. The memorandum has been drafted within the framework of UNMIK Regulation 21 on the
licensing of banking and other financial institutions.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Given the importance of having a functioning financial sector to the reconstruction and recovery of Kosovo,
the Bank has supported UNMIK with the preparation of a framework for lending to SMEs as part of the
overall program to support private sector development and economic reconstruction. The Bank has played a
major role on development of the framework, and in assisting EAR with inputs for the contracting of needed
expertise for project set-up and implementation.
E: Summary Project Analysis:
(detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic:
[] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=N.A.; ERR= N.A.
[]Cost Effectiveness Analysis: N.A.
[x] Other (specify)
*  Measures of cost-benefit or cost effectiveness are not applicable to the project itself. Sub-loans
originated from the line of credit are expected to be subject to sound credit analysis at entry, and
financially viable.
*  The proposed pricing of the line of credit will have to be constantly evaluated in light of evolving
market conditions and the emergence of relevant market parameters, to prevent any disincentive to
the development of an appropriate incentive structure and market-determined pricing for credit.
E  Ongoing results from the EAR/World Bank and other credit lines, as well as other efforts (i.e., credit
demand surveys) will be closely monitored in support of equilibrium in credit markets.
*  The weak collateral framework and limited judicial capacity pose a serious limitation in the
development of secured lending transactions.
  The risk of adverse selection of projects is high given the limited information available in the market.
This could have adverse effects on the quality and performance of the loan portfolio.
2. Financial:                            NPV=N.A.         FRR-N.A.    (see Annex 4 and 5)
The pilot project is expected to be financially sustainable enough to recover local costs on the assumption
that debt service performance is high. However, given the small size of the pilot and the technical
assistance needs for implementation, the project can not be expected to recover the costs of international



14
experts unless net spreads are higher and performing loan volume is near perfect. Cost recovery for local
expenses (e.g., personnel, overhead) will come primarily from interest income earned on performing loans,
which will be set at DEM-prevalent rates based on maturity. The difference between grant terms and the
indicative cost of funds will finance administrative operations and reserves.
Fiscal impact: The project is expected to have a beneficial effect, albeit minor, in terms of tax payments
made for imported goods, and excise tax payments made. However, much depends on the registration
process of firms, as well as the effectiveness of tax collection and administration over the next few years.
If ongoing efforts to expand the fiscal base and develop a viable tax system are successful, beneficiary
SMEs will pay taxes as will their employees and contractors. Further, the proposed exit strategy of the
project is expected to revert project funds into the fiscal accounts, although the amounts involved are
expected to have only a minor positive fiscal impact.
3. Technical:
N/A
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The overall implementation and monitoring of the project will fall under the auspices of UNMIK-
Pillar IV, Department of Trade and Industry. As the major coordinator for private sector development,
UNMIK Pillar IV has established the ICU by issuing an Internal Memorandum, which defines: the
specific modalities of its mandate (what it can and can not do), its reporting requirements to UNMIK and
BPK (as conditions of receiving a license to operate), the specific development objectives it is expected to
support (lending to SMEs), the methods of its management (profesionalized and awarded by open tender),
and the role of the co-financing donors (and other potential donors).
b. Project management:
a Structure of the ICU: The credit line is administered by the ICU and staffed by a team of consultants
from ICC Consulting. The EAR has financed start-up costs and provides resources for all initially projected
technical assistance for implementation. In addition to administrative management the ICU has two other
operational sections. The Credit Management section concentrates on direct lending functions, while the
Apex/TA section handles the delivery of technical assistance to banks. Eventually, the latter should be the
section in charge of qualifying banks that could become participants in the project. In the case of the Credit
Management section, it assumes the ability to "transfer" some or all personnel to the banks as the lending
activities of the ICU increasingly shift from direct lending to SMEs to on-lending through banks, and/or as
the credit portfolio is sold to banks.
* Personnel Management: The budget for project management covers a team of four international staff.
This includes performance-based compensation for local staff, which is considered essential for strong
results. Based on discussions with MEB-Kosovo and others, the ICU is expected to be able to attract
needed local staff because of the performance-based pay and the training it will offer.
* Professional Management Responsibilities: In recent weeks the EAR issued a contract to a team of
advisors from the Industrial Credit Corporation from Ireland (ICC Consulting). The team is developing the
by-laws for the ICU, elaborating on the role of each of the sections, and is establishing the guidelines for
proper management of the ICU to ensure accountability and effective oversight consistent with UNMIK
requirements. The ICU will be responsible for project accounting, procurement and disbursements.
a  Governance Arrangements of the ICU: As the official recipient of grant proceeds, UNMIK will provide
basic oversight of the ICU to ensure it is in compliance with project development objectives. BPK will



1 5
monitor performance and financial soundness to ensure the ICU provides needed credit without
undercutting development of a prudently managed banking system. The ICU is operationally autonomous,
placing significant responsibility in the hands of its management to properly implement the project based on
objectives, and to properly administer the project based on reporting and regulatory requirements. UJNMIK
oversight and BPK surveillance will be supplemented by World Bank and EAR supervision, and
independent external audits. All findings will be reported to UNMIK and BPK to facilitate their respective
governance responsibilities.
c. Donor coordination:
Donor coordination is being monitored to avoid duplication of functions, or redundant credit schemes that
could work at cross-purposes with the UNMIK framework for coordinated private sector development. If
the ICU is successful in the near term, it is expected that it could be an effective way to coordinate and
channel additional donor assistance to Kosovo's SME sector.
5. Social:
The ICU is in the process of establishing a basic monitoring and evaluation system to identify the impact
of the line of credit on borrowers. This will include monitoring indicators of job creation and general
wealth creation as a part of the overall effort to rebuild the economy and to alleviate poverty.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category     [X]  Fl [] A [] B   [] C
As per Bank guidelines it is proposed that (i) sub-loan agreements specify required information addressing
environmental assessment issues; (ii) the ICU and participating banks compile necessary information to
ensure each enterprise is operating in accordance with local and EARlWorld Bank environmental
guidelines; and (iii) the ICU monitor enterprises and banks for compliance with environmental
requirements. These arrangements are part of the Operational Guidelines of the Project Implementation
Plan. (Appendix 6 of the PIP highlights the environmental implementation plan including screening of
projects, triggers for environmental assessments and audits, and the ICU's environmental review process.)
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Consultation through interviews with a sample of privately owned SMEs in Kosovo regarding business plan
requirements, credit risk evaluation criteria, and repaymentldebt service obligations.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Collaboration with other international donors; information sharing with Kosovo business associations and
major research entities; consultation with NGOs.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The ICU (and participating banks when qualified) will measure prospects for sustainability and return on
investment financed by the project through prior sub-loan analysis. For lending made directly by the ICU to
enterprises, this will be done by the ICU's credit advisors and analysts before being approved for
disbursement. On the one hand, BEF investment analysis and pre-investment assistance will also ensure a
higher quality of loan applications. On the other, BEF post-investment assistance will increase the likelihood
of timely debt service repayment. Finally, sustainability of the revolving credit line beyond the first sub-loan



16
cycle will depend on timely and full repayment of the sub-loans by borrowers and participating banks.
Beyond the third year of implementation (after project completion), it is expected that local authorities will
"privatize" the credit portfolio and credit advisory sections. This is envisioned from the beginning, and is
expected to begin to occur well before project completion in the form of increased on-lending to banks,
increased technical assistance and training through banks, and the sale of the ICU loan portfolio when
conditions are appropriate. These are discussed in the exit strategy below.
Exit Strategy:
Over time (e.g., two-three years), the portfolio of the ICU is expected to devolve to the banking system.
This could begin immediately on a partial basis if there are licensed banks willing and able to lend.
However, at the outset, bank capacity is only expected to be able to cover a fraction of the range of loans
under the project,. at most. In fact, there is currently virtually no capacity or willingness to lend to SMEs.
Thus, the ICU is expected to process a significant portion of the loans to SMEs under the project during the
first year or two. As a pilot project envisioning no more than 60 first-cycle loans, it is anticipated that banks
will slowly emerge and show an interest in SME lending around Year 2 of the project. By Year 3, the
project expects to originate fewer direct loans to SMEs, and to play a more "apex"-type role by on-lending
through the banks. At this juncture, the project expects to implement a strategy to sell its portfolio,
effectively transferring it to the banking sector.
From the outset, the project's very existence is planned as a complement to whatever lending capacity exists
in the banking system. However, once the limited banking capacity begins to expand, the ICU's role should
correspondingly begin to contract. In this manner, and with the approval of the BPK, the ICU will begin to
divest its portfolio. This could occur through acquisition in full or in part by the banks. The former
approach would involve an institution purchasing the portfolio, much as it occurs in market economies
through syndication. If large enough, such a sale might be conducted through a tendering or auction
process. If done in part, this could be offered in tranches based on an auction system, and phased at
different times based on maturity schedules and how loans could be batched. In any event, such modalities
could be deferred until a more appropriate time when one or more banks is/are ready to assume management
of the portfolio. However, the exit strategy for the ICU will have this devolution in mind from the
beginning. This strategy will be closely coordinated with BPK and will require that the bank(s) have met
BPK requirements. Key requirements are expected to include fit and proper standards of governance and
management; operationalization of adequate risk management systems; autonomous internal audit function
backed by verifiably credible internal controls and management information systems; strong capital
adequacy ratios, growing capital, and strong liquidity; observance of exposure limits; and capacity to ensure
appropriate environmental screening of projects.



17
2. Critical Risks:
(reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
-_
From Outputs to Objective
Failure to implement and enforce basic regulations   S        UNMIK has taken steps to re-establish
for financial infrastructure.                                 a basic institutional and regulatory
framework (i.e., BPK for licensing,
supervision, and payments).
Lack of adequate financial intermediaries.          S/H       BPK has issued one bank license, and
will may be issue others in late 2000.
ICU will enforce strict eligibility
criteria to participating banks. Strong
TA program to assist the development
emerging banks.
Inability to implement exit strategy.              S/H        Donor support for existing licensed
bank. Strong TA program to assist the
development of emerging banks.
Failure to improve overall business environment     S         Orderly normalization and new
for PSD, including advisory services to SMEs.                 registration of enterprises is being
closely monitored. Additional TA will
be sought for improvements in the
overall business environment.
From Components to Outputs
Insufficient sub-loan demand, adverse selection of   S        Products and service delivery systems
sub-projects leading to high default rates,                   developed based on results of field
inadequate normalization and registration of                  surveys. Strict project selection
enterprise activities.                                        criteria. New regulations and rules
introduced for banking putting onus on
management to maintain prudent
solvency and liquidity ratios.
Developments in registration of
enterprises are being closely
monitored.
Delayed establishment of ICU's core functions.      M         Most of the functions are already in
place.
Unavailability of suitable expatriate advisors and  M         A highly qualified team has been
qualified local staff.                                        selected. Performance-based
compensation will be established.
Strong staff training program expected
to provide additional incentives for
________________ __ _good performance.
Inadequate and timely donor funding for start-up    N         EAR is financing start-up costs.
costs.
Overall Risk Rating                                 S/H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



18
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Participation of Banks: Banks participation will take time. The ICU will rely on BPK to provide the ICU
with approval of individual banks' participation in the project, as well as the lending limit to be applied
by the ICU to the individual bank based on capital, exposure limits, etc. For banks with licenses that will
be unable to participate, this may cause controversy with regard to the role BPK is playing. Even if they
can participate, the assigned lending limits may be fairly small at the beginning. This could cause
additional controversy regarding both BPK and the ICU, particularly if licensed banks will be unable to
mobilize resources from the potential deposit market in any meaningful way.
Loan Processing: There is very likely to be a gap in the expectations of many enterprises, and their ability
to meet criteria for loan approval and disbursement under project guidelines. Efforts will be made to
educate the public of requirements, and to provide advisory services to assist with their proposals and
applications. However, ICU rejections and partial rejections with requirements for re-submission will
cause delays and frustration. Unless a visible number of loans is made in a fairly short period after ICU
establishment, frustration will mount. This will cause controversy about the pilot project making the
criteria for financing unrealistically difficult.
Pricing: As there is no real market for banking and benchmarks for pricing, there are bound to be claims
that the pilot line of credit may be distorting markets. If the ICU charges rates that are perceived to be too
low by emerging banks, they will complain to BPK that the line of credit is undercutting market
development. If the ICU charges rates much more in line with MEB-Kosovo, the NGO lending in the
DEM 50,000 range (on average), and possibly other banks, then SMEs will charge that the grant funds are
overpriced as a source of credit for SMEs. In either case, the absence of market depth will make
controversy inevitable.
Political Risk: Given the difficulty of the political environment, controversy is bound to emerge over
lending pattems. If all loans are made to the predominant ethnic group in Kosovo, minorities will cite
such practices as discriminatory, even if their loan proposals are unacceptable. If loans are made to ethnic
minorities in an impartial manner (and in a manner consistent with the UN mandate), some members of
the majority community will complain. In either case, controversy appears inevitable.
Exit Strategy: One possible controversy may emerge with actual implementation of the exit strategy. At
the moment, the plan is to transfer the portfolio to the private banking system. However, if this occurs at
a very deep discount, there may be sharp criticism that a loan portfolio which originated from grant
proceeds is transferred to the banking sector in a manner that exhibits high levels of rent-seeking
behavior. The alternative of leaving the loans with the SMEs would, at a minimum, broadly distribute the
perceived rent. However, such an approach could also undermine financial discipline and be at odds with
the emerging incentive structure for market-based banking. If neither option is satisfactory, there is the
risk that local authorities will attempt to "nationalize" the ICU or its portfolio, and use it to establish a
"development bank." All three represent unpalatable alternatives, with any of these routes bound to cause
some measure of controversy.
G: Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
The following represent the three conditions of effectiveness for the project:
*  Condition #1: The ICU shall be established, be fully operational, and its Operational Guidelines be adopted,
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
* Condition #2: A subsidiary Grant Agreement between UNMIK and the ICU shall have been executed with



I')
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and
* Condition #3: A short list of independent auditors and their terms of reference shall have been
prepared under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
2. Other: (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements)
Accounts, audit: Yearly financial project audit (including Special Account, Statements of Expenditure);
provision of audited annual financial statements of participating banks; provision of six-monthly financial
statements of participating banks.
Monitoring, review and reporting: Quarterly project progress report by the ICU.
H: Readiness for Implementation
I.The design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
3.The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
I: Compliance with Bank Policies
1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
,4  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
[signature   / 4
Team Le   rardo M. Corrochano
[signature]   l \    _      C  J_..          .
Sector Manager: Ilham Zurayk
Country Manager/Director: hristiaan J. Poortman



2()
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Kosovo: Pilot SME Line of Credit
Hierarchy of        cKe  Pd                         nticalAsmtns
Sector-related CAS Goal:         Sector Indicators;                Sector / Country Reports:        (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Encouraging the development of    Improved indicators of economic    *   Evaluation of impact of     *   Continuation of the peace
the private sector, improving    activity and private sector        program on Small and Medium       process in the region;
private enterprise access to capital.  development (i.e., share of private    enterprises; o             Continued progress in
sector activity in GDP,           etrrss                                 otne   rgesi
employment).                     *   Country and sectoral           macroeconomic management
economic reports.                and structural reforms will
provide a necessary condition
for a sustained economic
growvth.
Project Development Objective:   Outcome / Impact Indicators:      Project Reports:                  (from Objective to Goal)
*   To provide financing to      *   Key indicators of on-         *   Progress report by ICU and    *   Continued progress on the
SMEs to jump-start production    lending performance (i.e., loan   participating banks (when they    re-establishment, normalization
and economic activity of the     volumes. cumulative lending):     are active)                       of activities. and modernization
private sector.                 *   Key indicators of cost        *   Reports by BPK                 of banks and enterprises.
*   To foster the nascent         recovery:                        *   Impact assessment by the
incentive structure and         *   Indicators ofjob creation;.    ICU
institutional framework of the  Implementation of exit strategy:  *   EUI/Vorld Bank supervision
financial sector                                                   and project monitoring.
*   To establish basic credit
management capacity and loan
administration skills of newly
emerging banks .
Output from each component:      Output Indicators:                Project Reports:                 (from Outputs to Objective)
*   On-lending of EU/JVorld      *   Indicators of lending         *   BPK supervision:              *   Appropriate
Bank grant to SMEs;              performance and volumes          *   ICU's extemal audit report;    implementation of basic
*   Training and technical       *   Indicators ofTA and           *   Regular ICU/participating      regulations for financial
assistance to newly emerged      training delivery                 banks progress and               infrastructure;
banks;                                                             disbursement reports;            *   Strengthening of newly
*   Sub-loan reviews by ICU;      emerged financial
*   EU/;Vorld Bank supervision    intermediaries;
and project monitoring.         *   Successful exit strategy
*   Improved overall business
environment for PSD. including
advisory services to SMEs
Project Components/Sub-          Inputs: (indicative budget for    Project Reports:                 (from Components to Outputs)
components:                      each component)                   *   Regular ICU/participating     *   Sufficient and adequate
*   ICU, SME Line of Credit      *   DEM min    15.00               banks progress and                sub-loan demand:
(Sub-loans)                                                        disbursement reports;            *   Timely establishment of
*   ICU operations, credit       *   DEM mln    5.00               *   Reports by co-financing        ICU's core functions:
management, training and                                           donors:                          *   Early availability of
technical assistance.                                             *   EU/JWorld Bank supervision     expatriate advisors and
and project monitoring,          qualified local staff,
*   Adequate donor funding for
start-up and operating costs.



21
Annex 2: Project Description
Kosovo: Pilot SME Line of Credit
By Component:
Project Component 1 - DEM 15.0 million (US$7.5 million-equivalent), of which DEM 10 million is
from the World Bank and DEM 5.0 million is from the European Agency for Reconstruction
Credit Line Component
Objective: The line of credit component of the project will provide emergency financing for needed
inputs and repairs to permit small- and medium-scale private enterprises in Kosovo to re-start/expand
operations. Financing from the line of credit will involve the purchase of needed tools and equipment-
often from regional and offshore locations-as well as the purchase of raw materials and financing for the
repair of facilities. Loans are expected to involve largely working capital financing, and sometimes may
cover the cost of repairs to larger facilities and associated incremental investments.
Emergency financing. Emergency financing is considered essential to advance the Kosovo economy.
Under this component, financing will be made available to viable private SMEs initially through the ICU,
since there is insufficient banking capacity in Kosovo for SME credit needs. As the banking sector
develops in Kosovo, the lending activities of the ICU will transfer to the participating banks. This is
expected to occur as early as year 2 of project implementation, and be finalized or close to final by the
time of project completion. For disbursements authorized by the ICU, these will be made in tranches
against presentation of invoices by enterprise borrowers. Ex-ante controls will include (i) credit risk
analysis to test for reasonableness of the business plan, cash flow projections and debt service prospects;
(ii) electronic searches for verification of data assumptions (e.g., prices for equipment, taxes/customs);
(iii) records of past history of management/owners; and (iv) local market intelligence attesting to the
character of the borrowers. The review and inspection of Statements of Expenditure, regular reports,
scheduled audits, on-site inspections by the ICU and participating bank staff, and supervision staff of the
World Bank will be used to validate the use of funds. The potential risk of misallocation is mitigated by
the fact that a professional team has been recruited to implement the project and run the ICU.
The complementary role of the ICU as lender to enterprises and to banks. With regard to banks and
the potential conflicting role of the ICU, the project is designed to ensure the ICU is complementary to the
role of banks in the field of SME lending, with a gradual wind down of its direct lending role as banks
become stronger and play a more prominent role in SME lending. This wind-down is expected to begin as
early as Year 2 of project implementation, and is explicitly mapped out as part of the exit strategy.
However, for an interim period, the ICU is viewed as essential for successful project implementation. As
noted elsewhere in the document, (i) there is only one licensed bank in Kosovo, and it is not expected to
lend in the same range in the near future; (ii) banks in general tend to be risk-averse in lending patterns
under market terms when the institutional framework is undeveloped (due to risks to recovery and interest
streams); consequently, many banks show higher off-balance sheet activity to generate fee income in a
relatively risk-free manner, and to assess the market for subsequent on-balance sheet risk (e.g., lending); and
(iii) even if there is a willingness to lend by licensed banks, they would need significantly greater capital
than is likely to materialize to be able to make 60 or more SME loans averaging DEM 250,000, as
envisioned by the SME project. The ICU will seek to actively work with the banks for developmental
purposes as well as cost purposes. Such on-lending is likely to be cheaper and more cost-effective for the
ICU, and it would clearly feed more directly into structural reforms for a more developed banking system
able to provide increased levels of credit to viable SMEs. Nevertheless, given the limited capacity and
willingness of banks to lend to SMEs on the scale envisioned by the project, the role of the ICU is designed
to provide the needed complement of resources in concert with technical assistance and training to ensure
SME access to credit during an initial period in which the institutional structure of the economy is weak.



22
On-lending mechanism and sub-loan terms. On-lending arrangements for World Bank resources will
run from a Special Account in a Western commercial bank through the ICU and banks to suppliers for
imported goods, and through the payments system for domestically purchased goods. A fraction of funds
will be disbursed on a cash basis. Most will be done electronically based on presentation of proper
documentation once invoices are produced and verified. Efforts to identify false documentation will be
coordinated with BPK. Lessons from other country projects will also be introduced to pre-empt and contain
the risk of fake invoices being utilized. Internet searches could be conducted to identify the potential for
fake invoices and data. Market research firms in the region and Western Europe (expected to be the source
of most imports financed under the project) could also be contracted as part of the audit process to determine
the validity of borrower documentation. If it is ascertained that the problem is epidemic, funds for the
project will be suspended and terminated. Transfers into Kosovo will be in DEM. For transactions abroad,
the commercial bank administering the Special Account will apply the appropriate exchange rate (e.g.,
DEM-Lira). To the extent that the project will overlap with a period when the DEM ceases to exist in favor
of the Euro, the same practices will apply as needed (e.g., Euro-US$, Euro-Yen).
Currency risk, credit risk, repayment arrangements. Sub-loans will be denominated in DEM. The
ICU and the banks will bear the credit risk and will be responsible for collection of principal and interest.
Loan repayments from enterprises will occur over variable periods from three months to three years.
Interest payments will be expected to be current. The ICU will determine principal amortization and interest
payment schedules on a case-by-case basis. No prepayment penalties will be charged to enterprises"2. To
the contrary, incentives for early/accelerated payment of principal and interest will be encouraged without
penalties. Loan agreements will make schedules specific, and computerized monitoring systems will be put
in place to ensure timely payments. Delays in principal or interest payments will be subject to penalty fees
consistent with regulations and in consultation with BPK. Criteria for suspension from the line of credit-to
banks and/or enterprises-will be developed with BPK. On the positive side, timely or accelerated
performance will be noted in data bases and rewarded in the form of preferred processing procedures,
increased principal, lower interest rates, etc. This will be coordinated between BPK, the ICU and the
participating banks.
Loans will be made based on credit analysis performed by analysts and advisors of the ICU and the banks.
Initial loan requests made by potentially eligible borrowers will be reviewed to ensure compliance with
project guidelines and lending procedures. Thereafter, approved requests from enterprises will trigger a
drawdown on the line of credit based on agreed limits and purposes. Limits for the ICU to individual
company clients will be consistent with exposure limits on banks in the rules. For purposes of the ICU,
these limits will be DEM 300,000 at the beginning, and possibly move up to DEM 500,000 if performnance
warrants such an increase. Banks will presumably be able to have exposure to single clients in excess of
these levels when capital, asset quality, management, and other factors are in order according to regulatory
requirements. By then, it is anticipated that the ICU will have wound down its operation, or at least will
have begun to reduce its direct lending activities.
Prudent lending standards will be applied based on (i) the quality of advisors hired to screen business plans
and to conduct credit risk evaluation; (ii) modem-day risk-based techniques to assess the financial,
operational and managerial merits of a proposed investment; and (iii) the incentive to firms of receiving
larger loans, lower interest rates, lower fees, faster processing, and favorable credit rating information
passed on to BPK if they demonstrate timely debt service payments. Incentives to local employees-namely
credit and business analysts-will be in the form of (i) higher compensation based on transparent
performance-based criteria (e.g., number of plans/loans processed combined with the performance of those
loans); (ii) letters of recommendation based on performance; and (iii) the likelihood of well-paid, high-status
jobs (e.g., in banks, companies, consulting firms) upon Project completion as a result of training received.
Meanwhile, the ICU has the general incentive to properly manage resources and carry out its operations due
12    Participating banks will be free to set their own policies and procedures, but will be held responsible for managing credit risk.



23
to (i) the professional reputation of the advisors, including monitoring by donor sources; and (ii) continuous
supervision and external audit.
Funds provided by ICU to banks for on-lending could be made in batches or individual disbursements. For
instance, a bank with projects that it would like to finance could apply to the ICU for the requested funding,
subject to BPK approval. Approval from the ICU will be predicated on BPK approval (e.g., the bank has
met licensing and regulatory requirements) along with the bank's compliance with loan/project requirements
(e.g., credit worthy enterprises and projects, approved activities, signing a legal agreement to meet
repayment and debt service requirements according to schedule).
Enterprise borrowers will bear interest rate and exchange rate risk. Interest rate risk will be based on
maturity issues for DEM transactions. Movements could be favorable or unfavorable. For FX transactions
(such as for equipment imports), there is a risk of exchange rate movements. If DEM rates moved upward,
this would benefit the enterprise. However, the opposite possibility would have to be factored into the
business plan, credit analysis, and overall execution of the loan. In either case, the SME line of credit
framework will require that enterprises have a basic risk management function attached to their operations
to reassure lenders that their credit will perforrn.
The ICU and banks will maintain documented credit histories of borrowers on file, and furnish these as
needed to bank supervisors as well as to any authorized credit information bureau that may develop in the
years ahead.
Eligibility of participating banks. Currently, there are no banks in Kosovo that are willing or able to act
as a participating bank for the SME credit line. However, it is expected that a few banks may be licensed to
operate in Kosovo in late 2000. Once these banks receive their banking licenses, they could apply to
participate in the project as vehicles for credit delivery. If BPK recommends their participation, and subject
to approval of the World Bank and the EAR, the ICU will request a lending figure to be applied to the bank
in terms of exposure it could have relative to capital and other financial measures. These will need to be
continuously adjusted by BPK based on its supervision activities. Anticipated criteria for increasing bank
involvement in the project will include (i) increasing capital and improving capital adequacy; (ii) growing
assets of high quality; (iii) growing and strengthening earnings trends; (iv) demonstrated liquidity
management capacity; (v) development of sound internal audit and management information systems; (vi)
improving and effective corporate governance; and (vii) general movement towards adequate risk
management systems based on compliance with prudential regulations, and consistent with stable banking
practices within the context of the Kosovo market. Achieving these benchmarks will take time for many of
the banks seeking a license to operate. The ICU will work closely with BPK to coordinate the involvement
of individual licensed banks into the project. Efforts will be made to ensure that such involvement
supported near-term objectives of prudent lending to viable SMEs, as well as medium-termn objectives of
building a stable banking environment.
Eligibility of participating enterprises. Benefiting enterprises need to be privately owned, and
registered with the tax authorities. Guidance from UNMIK will be needed on how best to achieve project
and general private sector development objectives. Businesses will need to be involved primarily in light
manufacturing or agro-processing, or in high value added service activities that support the restoration of
industrial or food production or other critical sectors in Kosovo. Enterprises and/or their managers need
to demonstrate prior operating experience in the activity to be financed. During the lifetime of the sub-
loan, benefiting businesses will be required to maintain prudent financial ratios. Although these can and
likely will be adjusted after operations commence, initial indicative ratios include (i) a debt/equity ratio of
no more than 3:1 (defined as total debt, including the sub-loans, divided by registered equity); and (ii)
minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.5:1 (defined as after-tax cash earnings before interest divided
by principal and interest payments). Furthermore, enterprises need to demonstrate that they have
sufficient working capital to meet all existing and projected financial obligations in a timely manner,
including enough to have high capacity utilization rates once new equipment/machinery is installed.



24
Eligibility of projects. Initial parameters for project eligibility for financing from the pilot SME line of
credit are those which:
* are supported by a viable and approved business plan
* do not exceed DM 300,000 initially in borrowing needs
* include an initial minimum target of about 25-30% of borrowings reserved for working capital purposes
to ensure adequate inputs once new machinery/equipment is installed (where relevant)
* have addressed the issue of timing on working capital and equipment financing requirements to keep
exposure and interest costs down; thus, the enterprise might incur commitment fees for a period of several
weeks, but usage fees (which will trigger interest charges) will be less over the course of the loan period
* have a material asset or equity stake in place on the part of the prospective borrower to ensure the
borrower is taking risk and making a personal financial contribution to the enterprise's overall debt capacity
such that non-performance will involve personal burden-sharing
* have the greatest prospects for success based on the strength of the business plan, the character of
management, the willingness of owners and managers to carry out the business plan, and the ability to
generate strong cash flow based on prevailing market conditions
* represent business activities not on a negative list of impermissible activities specified by the European
Commission and the World Bank'3, or activities which would be inconsistent with banking sector
regulations
Collateral arrangements. As part of the credit administration function, issues might emerge with regard to
secured lending-verification of documentation and assets assigned/pledged. In light of the weak legal
framework with regard to secured transactions and contract enforcement, the project framework does not
initially place a high value on collateral backing provided for loans. From a policy standpoint, Basle
Committee guidelines should not be mechanically applied. Instead, real market-based values within Kosovo
should be applied based on the ability to take possession and sell such assets for loan recovery. The low
assigned value of pledges could change over time as the market develops, as new guidelines in these areas
are introduced, and as legal structures take hold. This will almost certainly be applied to moveable goods
and some fixed assets, although housing is not likely to serve as effective collateral. Initially, the framework
envisions most lending practices being structured as if they were cash flow loans on an unsecured basis,
even if assets are pledged. For this reason, banks, the ICU and the BEF have to ensure that strict standards
of business plan preparation and loan processing/credit management are applied. Collateral pledges, such as
"cross-guarantees" and other solidarity mechanisms utilized in micro-enterprise lending schemes could be
sought. The principle of joint and several liability could also be applied, with details spelled out in legal
agreements.
Cost of financing. DEM 10 million (US$5.0 million-equivalent) will be made available by World Bank
under the proposed credit, all of which will be for loan funds. The European Agency for Reconstruction
is co-financing an equal amount providing all projected TA costs for ICU set-up and operation, with the
balance for loan funds. It is anticipated that other donor resources will be sought if the pilot is
demonstrated to be effective and successful.
Prior review. Prior review by the World Bank of sub-loan appraisal and approval documentation by each
enterprise (for direct ICU loans) will be required for the first three sub-loans out of World Bank resources,
and for the first three sub-loans equal or greater than DEM 200,000. For sub-loans to/through banks, the
World Bank will also conduct prior review on the first three sub-loans made. Other sub-loans, whether
direct to SMEs or through banks, will be reviewed on post-disbursement basis through the regular
supervision process, and by the annual external audit.
13     The policy guidelines of the proposed MEB-Kosovo also provide a useful and comprehensive list of ineligible projects.



25
Project Component 2 - DEM 5.5 million (US$2.75 million-equivalent), which is financed entirely by
the European Agency for Reconstruction.
ICU, Operations
Administration/Management of the ICU: The ICU will be professionally managed as a turnkey
operation. Such an approach includes experienced international advisors to oversee the management and
administration of the ICU, as well as a Financial Management Specialist to assist with the following
functions:
* Administering, monitoring and coordinating the co-financed SME credit line
*  Overseeing efforts by the ICU to educate the SME sector of the goals, objectives, features and
requirements of the program/project
* Verifying that borrowing enterprises and participating banks are in compliance with guidelines
concerning eligibility, proper use of funds, audit, reporting and disclosure requirements
*  Providing regular reports on disbursements, repayments, and compliance with the guidelines of
UNMIK/BPK and the co-financing institutions
* Implementing a Financial Management System consistent with World Bank requirements
Credit management (direct lending to SMEs): The Credit Management function of the ICU is focusing
on SME lending and strong portfolio performance until the banks demonstrate capacity to assume this role.
This involves all features of credit risk evaluation, loan processing, credit monitoring, and collections.
Credit management includes:
X Assessing and processing loans
*  Reporting back to potential recipients of the shortcomings of their proposals when temporarily denied
credit (and what is needed to access credit)
*  Reporting back to enterprises in a timely manner when proposals have no chance of being financed
under the line of credit
* Coordinating with the BEF Business Advisory Services to provide a harmonized framework for the
origination of loan proposals with the loan evaluation process
Apex on-lending and training/TA through banks: Participating banks will be provided technical
assistance and training in the areas of credit risk evaluation through the loan appraisal process.
Additional assistance might be provided in conjunction with other donors to strengthen banks' credit
management, asset-liability management, accounting and other operational areas. However, TA/training
will be focused on improving credit quality of bank portfolios by working directly with their bankers in
appraising credit proposals and monitoring for ongoing quality once disbursements are made.



26
Annex 2a: The Balkans Enterprise Facility (BEF) and the Pilot SME Line of Credit in
Kosovo
General BEF Objectives
The Balkans Enterprise Facility is an initiative run by the new IFC-World Bank SME Department, in
collaboration with IFC's Central and Southern Europe Department and the World Bank's Europe and
Central Asia Department. The BEF builds on the experience of other IFC past and current Facilities (e.g.,
the Mekong Project Development Facility), paying special attention to the business enabling environment
(BEE) constraints affecting SMEs.
The BEF has the following countries as strategic targets on a regional basis covering the Former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM), Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH), Albania and Kosovo (the
extent to which the program will be extended to Kosovo is explained below):
Enterprise Level Investment Services
* Prepare, structure, implement and monitor investment projects (including newly privatized companies
and those scheduled for privatization);
*  Undertake basic legal due diligence work in connection with investment screening and processing;
* Help plan and implement privatization of specific firms;
*  Better enable SMEs to access available financing sources;
*  Support and complement a range of new SME financing initiatives that are in the planning stage
(including viable new financing initiatives such as leasing);
*  Introduce sound financial management practices in selected companies.
Capacity Building
*  Develop local managerial, consultant and related service capacities, with maximum involvement of
regional and in-country local private sector service providers. The Facility will not compete with local
consultants. Rather it will utilize their expertise and capacity to the maximum feasible level and will
help develop their skill base. At the end of the Facility's operations, it is anticipated that local and
regional consultants will have developed adequate capacity and reputation to provide such inputs on a
fully commercial basis In this respect, IFC has commenced the development of data bases of local
consultants in Albania, BiH, FYROM, and Kosovo.
*  Facilitate information exchange and dialogue between key partners;
*  Assist in the adaptation and dissemination of new knowledge;
*  Promote development of regional and in-country private sector service providers.
Business Enabling Environment
*  Identify, research and advocate key reforms in areas such as property rights, collateral and mortgages,
corporate governance, labor relations, business registration and reporting procedures, and assist with their
implementation;
* Develop local ownership and implementation capacities;
*  Address corruption and fraud issues.
Proposed BEF Collaboration with the Line of Credit (LOC)
Given the complementarity between the LOC and the BEF, the BEF management has decided to initiate
pilot activities in the area of advisory services to SMEs in Kosovo, particularly those receiving financing



27
through the LOC, and in the area of the business enabling environment. Collaboration has already begun
with the development by BEF of a pipeline of 17 companies, which will be presented to the ICU in mid-
September. The BEF is planning to provide full support to four selected companies while the remaining
pipeline companies will be supported with a program of seminars.
Advisory Services
Past experience indicates that enterprises should have access to adequate advisory services to maximize
the results of a financing program such as the Line of Credit in Kosovo. These services include:
* Assistance to present viable proposals to potential financiers;
* Post-financing assistance to implement investment proposals;
* Assistance to prepare and implement privatization plans.
This will complement the assistance provided by ICU staff, namely (i) undertaking basic legal due
diligence work on prospective investments (including environmental requirements), (ii) evaluating,
promoting and supporting new SME financing initiatives, and (iii) monitoring SME sub-loans. More
specifically, for the Preparation of Investment Proposals (pre-financing advisory services), while SMEs
can 'absorb' considerable technical assistance at this stage (especially if it is heavily subsidized), it is
proposed that the main inputs be limited to (i) formulation of accounting/financial records into a
reasonably accurate and transparent format, followed by (ii) introduction of a management information
system (and accompanying training of company personnel), to provide management and financiers with
timely and reliable data on the company's performance, followed by (iii) limited inputs to assist the
company to prepare and present business and financing plans to prospective financiers.
For two reasons, the Facility will insist that the companies continue to manage the development of actual
business plans. First, it is essential that entrepreneurs retain 'ownership' of their business plans; they
must themselves believe in the plan and understand its implications. Second, the Facility will need to be
careful in terms of generating unrealistic expectations on the part of sponsor. (However, the ICU business
advisor is expected to assist with the preparation of guidelines and formatting that will help to ensure
harmonization of business plan development with the needs of the ICU in assessing credit worthiness of
individual proposals.)
For the Post-Financing Investment Implementation, the IFC recognizes the critical importance of post-
financing implementation support if companies are to become sustainable in a more competitive market
environment.   Accordingly, the Facility will arrange, and oversee, post-financing  investment
implementation support for companies on the basis of a long-term on-going relationship. This support
will cover several areas - marketing, technical, environment, ISO accreditation, trade finance, export
procedures, etc.
Business Enabling Environment (BEE)
Currently, there is little distinction between the formal and informal private sector in Kosovo. The
regulatory and legislative framework is just now being established, including the creation of a business
registry. To ensure rapid "formalization" of existing and future private enterprises, the new regulatory
framework will need to be supportive of private activity and properly disseminated and enforced. Thus, it
is important to engage SMEs early in the process while new laws are being drafted, as well as to set up
mechanisms to affect existing regulatory and administrative barriers that place a disproportionate burden
on SMEs.
On the basis of survey results, a set of priority areas will be identified. Depending on the type of
constraint, a different dialogue/delivery mechanism will be used. Two key areas of focus are likely to
involve the following:



28
* Given the continuous creation of new regulations/laws, two main problems are arising: (i) SMEs are
not aware of the most up-to-date legislation or administrative requirements, and (ii) SMEs do not have
access to adequate legal advice. Thus, dissemination of laws and of "how-to" guides is crucial to ensure
compliance. An assessment will be undertaken into the feasibility of setting up a BEE interactive web-
site to (i) disseminate in the local languages an inventory of BEE laws/regulations and a "How-To" Guide
for the benefit of judges, businesses, and lawyers; (ii) facilitate dialogue among entrepreneurs, lawyers,
and other professionals via an e-News Letter and a Virtual Meeting Place on the web-site; this would be
complemented by related workshops and conferences (e.g., roundtables with lawyers and judges on
commercial law developments and priorities; forum with business persons, bankers, and the govemment
on new collateral law); and (iii) create a link to other relevant organizations, such as Ministries, Bar
Association (when it exists), Chambers, and Business Associations.
* If an existing law/regulation is placing a special burden on SMEs and/or if the law/regulation is not
being enforced, several mechanisms are envisaged (emphasis will be put in those areas that affect the
functioning of banking activities, such as the use of collateral and the realization of collateral): (i)
sponsor business organizations to prepare and present views to government on the enabling environment
framework; (ii) create linkages between business organizations (networks) to conduct surveys and present
results to government; (iii) develop an enabling environment framework and make consolidated
representations (e.g., cost implications of taxes and administrative barriers); and (iv) support the
strengthening of business associations to advocate reform of the enabling environment (e.g., fora of bar
association, accountants, business associations and other professional groups on effective representation).
All these activities will be done in close coordination with donors that are considering similar type of
activities (e.g. EAR, USAID, GTZ).
SME Mapping Exercise
An SME mapping exercise has taken place. The objective of the SME mapping in Kosovo is to perform
the following:
* Assess SMEs' financing needs, existing financial intermediaries and alternative financing instruments
= in the case of Kosovo, building on the analysis done to date in the context of the LOC project (including
the questionnaire exercise currently underway into financing needs); particular emphasis will be paid to
an assessment of leasing options within Kosovo;
* Assess SMEs' and financial institutions' need for technical assistance, and existing local capacity in
addition to the support anticipated through the LOC project;
* Assess selected SME sub-sector linkages and impact on the local economy in terms of income,
employment and household effects;
* Identify current BEE and policy constraints to SME development, including specific study into
existing customs and tax effects on leading SME sector activities;
* Submit recommendations to improve the SME business enabling environment through a "bottom up"
approach (e.g., dialogue mechanisms between local institutions and the government) and as options to be
considered under possible future World Bank operations.
The PSA/SME mapping is an important piece of work for the BEF, as it will help identify SME BEE
constraints and business development support needs within a larger World Bank Group program context.
It will also contribute in a timely manner to the design and implementation of the BEF implementation
plan for Kosovo.



29
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Kosovo: Pilot SME Line of Credit
*b   * 4 - ,.,    ,.b    <i *.,=n.e<.,;,i,>e
Interim Credit Unit (ICU), SME Line of Credit            2.00          14.90          16.90
ICU, Operations
Technical assistance                                     0.00           1.96          1.96
Operation cost                                           0.59          2.35           2.94
Total Baseline Cost                                      2.59          19.21          21.80
Physical Contingencies                                 0.05          0.05           0.10
Price Contingencies                                   0.05           0.05           0.10
Total Project Costs    2.69           19.31         22.00
Total Financing Required            2.69          19.31          22.00
.
Goods                                                    0.29          2.16           2.45
Services                                                 0.29          2.16           2.45
Taxes                                                    2.0            0.0            2.0
Sub-loans                                                0.0           15.0           15.1
Total Project Costs                                      2.6           19.4           22.0
Interest during construction                             0.0             0             0
Front-end fee                                            0.0             0             0
Total Financing Required                                 2.6           19.4           22.0
Note: The UNMIK Interim Administration is using German Deutsche Marks as the currency for all
expenditures made under the Kosovar Consolidated Budget.



30
Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Kosovo: Pilot SME Line of Credit
Summary of benefits and costs:
Immediate benefits from the project will be increased economic activity, employment, and
income, resulting from some 60 sub-loans (average size DM 250,000). Resulting investments
will be expected to create about 1,300 jobs in total. Beyond these direct benefits, the project will
contribute to the larger agenda of banking sector reforrn in Kosovo by introducing credit
management capacity through the full credit cycle, and establishing normal commercial credit
relations between banks and enterprises.
Main assumptions:
Private sector investments to be financed will be expected to have very high rates of return
because (i) virtually no funding will be available to SMEs by the time the project commences
operations, even for the most profitable undertaking; and (ii) credit evaluation and project
selection is subject to double screening prior to approving and disbursing loans, first by the BEF
up front, and then by ICU credit analysts or bankers, depending on whether the sub-borrower
from the ICU is an enterprise or a bank.
Cost recovery:
The pilot SME line of credit is expected to achieve cost recovery for local costs (e.g., personnel,
rent) over the three-year period on the condition that loan performance is 60-65 percent positive.
Even 100 percent performance would only generate enough income to cover 37.5 percent of total
costs if expatriate costs are added in. Much of the sensitivity of cost recovery is geared to loan
volume. With only 10 loans projected in year 1, full cost recovery for even local costs is
impossible. Nevertheless, once volume increases in years 2 and 3, full recovery of local costs is
made possible on the condition that 60-65 percent of loans are performing.
SIMULATED BREAKEVEN SCENARIO ON INCOME BASIS
Net Interest Above Simulated Cost of Funds (net of 8%) in DEM
at 100% performance                200,000         750,000    1,100,000     2,050,000
at 95% performance                 190,000         712,500    1,045,000      1,947,500
at 90% performance                 180,000         675,000      990,000      1,845,000
at 85% perfonnance                 170,000         637,500      935,000      1,742,500
at 80% performance                 160,000         600,000      880,000      1,640,000
at 75% performance                 150,000         562,500      825,000      1,537,500
at 70% performance                 140,000         525,000      770,000      1,435,000
at 65% performance                 130,000         487,500      715,000     1,332,500
at 60% performance                 120,000         450,000      660,000     1,230,000
at 55% performance                 110,000         412,500      605,000      1,127,500
at 50% performance                 100,000         375,000      550,000      1,025,000
ICU Costs in DEM
Expatriate Costs                  1,771,200       1,392,000    1,056,000    4,219,200
Local Costs                        520,600         346,400       374,000     1,241,000
Total                            2,291,800        1,738,400    1,430,000     5,460,200



31
Gross income is expected to be driven from interest income earned on performing loans. A small
fraction of income is expected to be generated from fees. Gross interest rates are expected to
approximate 16 percent at the outset of operations, although these may increase or decrease based
on a variety of factors. Net interest margins is expected to approximate 8 percent, after Germnan
Government Bond reference rates based on a matching of maturities with loan tenor, plus an
additional 3 percent for loan loss reserves. Based on figures reported September 7, 2000, the
following table illustrates how the indicative pricing scheme would work:
INDICATIVE PRICING SCENARIO FOR SME LINE OF CREDIT
Reference Rate  Cost to Participating Banks  Cost to Enterprises
LOAN MATURITY                 GGD                  GGD + 3%            GGD +11%
@ 3 Months                    4.870                    7.870                15.870
@ 6 Months                    5.097                    8.097                16.097
@ I Year                      5.161                    8.161                16.161
(&> 2 Years                   5.218                    8.218                16.218
GGD = German Government Debt (based on rates reported on September 7, 2000) =
Reference rate
GGD + 3% = Simulated cost of funds
GGD + 11% = Simulated cost of funds + 8 percent "net interest margin" = Gross interest
Loans to enterprises will be made up to DEM 300,000 initially. Most loans will be for up to one
year, although some could go to three years. Multiple loans could also be made based on maturity
differentials. For instance, working capital loans could be made for three to six months, while
equipment financing or premise repairs might be financed for longer periods. Loans will not exceed
three years, and a sizable portion will be expected to span about a year or less. Pricing of loans will
generally be consistent with the scheme illustrated above in which Germnan Government debt rates
serve as reference rates. Tentatively, an additional 3 percent is charged for loan loss reserves, and
then an additional 8 percent is added for margin. However, these rates may increase or decrease
after experience in the market. For instance, lending rates to banks may decrease based on their
proven capacity to manage risk factors. Pricing for SMEs will have to achieve balance between
what is "chargeable" and what is "affordable", with the equilibrium point being the price at which
the fund becomes dynamic and viable without creating loan-specific credit risk or an erosion of
portfolio quality as a result of high interest rate charges. A cap of 11 percent above Germnan
Government debt rates is recommended as an indicative rate at first, even if this is below what is
currently known about MEB-Kosovo's intentions and the rates charged by Mercy Corps
International (18 percent flat; 36 percent on a declining balance basis) on the 19 loans they have
made up to DEM 90,000. For resources provided to banks from the ICU, a cap of 3 percent above
German Government debt rates is recommended. Again, this may change over time if BPK signals
to the ICU that banks' credit management functions warrant a reduction in rates. Over time, these
rates should be permitted to move up or down based on banks' actual operating costs'4, risks
assumed and general strategies in the marketplace. Above all, early on, it is expected that net
interest margins on lending activities will be very attractive given the limited competition and the
ability of financial institutions to be selective with regard to the quality of their lending activity.
The ICU and banks will utilize interest income to build reserves and increase capital. All earnings
from the project will be retained on the ICU's balance sheet. No dividends will be permitted from
ICU earnings'.
14    These may well be higher for banks than those of NGOs, which might mean that banks could actually charge
rates higher than NGOs or micro-finance institutions. This remains to be seen.
15    Banks would be free to pay dividends as part of their normal operations subject to BPK approval.



32
Annex 5: Financial Summary
Kosovo: Pilot SME Line of Credit
Years Ending Dec 2003
DEM M
|Implernentation Period
|Year I    Year 2  |Year 3
_l ~DEM M
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Line of Credit                3.5         7.5        5.5
Technical Assistance          1.2         2.5        1.8
Total Project Costs               4.7        10.0        7.3
Total Financing                   4.7        10.0        7.3
Financing
World Bank                     1.7        4.8        3.5
EU                            2.6         4.2        3.1
Enterprise                    0.3        0.95        0.7
Total Project Financing           4.7        10.0        7.3
Note: The UNMIK Interim Administration is using German Deutsche Marks as the currency for all
expenditures made under the Kosovar Consolidated Budget.



33
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Kosovo: Pilot SME Line of Credit
Project Procurement Arrangements
The procurement of goods and services of the Bank-financed components will be procured in
accordance with the Bank's latest procurement guidelines: "Procurement under IBRD Loans and
World Bank Credits" (dated January 1995; last revision, January 1999) and "Selection and
Employment of Consultants" (dated January 1997; last revision, January 1999). The project
components not financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with the co-financing
institution's procurement guidelines. Major project elements financed by the Bank and their
estimated costs and proposed procurement methods are given in the table below. A General
Procurement Notice will be issued and a project launch workshop will be organized after Board
Approval.
Summary of Procurement Arrangements
PROJECT                     PROCUREMENT          TOTAL
ELEMENTS                      METHODS            COST
OTHER          N.B.F.
DEM million equivalent
Consultant services        0              3            3,0
& Training
Goods    (Office           0             2,0           2,0
equipment/ supply)
Investnent Credit         10.0'          7,0           17,0
TOTAL              10,0          10,0           22,0
* Line of Credit procurement to be undertaken by sub-borrower (private enterprises) in accordance with the
established commercial practice acceptable to the Bank.
Method of Procurement
(i)    Line of Credit component
Under this component, the purchase of civil works, goods, equipment, material/supplies, services
etc. will be financed.  Procurement of goods, equipment, and material/supplies contracts
estimated to cost the equivalent of DEM 100,000 (USD 50,000 equivalent) or less will be
undertaken by the sub-borrower (receiving sub-loans from the ICU) through the established
commercial practice acceptable to the Bank. Contracts estimated to cost DEM 300,000 (USD
150,000 ) or less should be procured by International Shopping.
Procurement of civil works by the sub-borrowers for contracts of DEM 100,000 (US$ 50,000-
equivalent) or less will be procured on the basis of quotation obtained from three or more
qualified domestic contractors and using the Bank's documents for unit rate or lump-sum fixed
price sample contract. For contracts DEM 100,000 (US$ 50,000-equivalent) or more, but less
than DEM 400,000 (USD 200,000) National Competitive Bidding procedures will be followed
using the Bank's-simplified contract documents.
Selection of consultants will be undertaken for firms through Selection based on Consultants
Qualification and for individuals through Selection of Individual Consultants for contracts up to
DEM 200.000 (US$ 100.000) and DEM 100,000 (US$ 50,000) respectively. Procurement will be
carried out under ICU supervision.



34
(ii)    Technical Assistance and Training Component
To be financed entirely by EAR.
(iii)   Goods (office equipment and supply)
To be financed in entirely by EAR.
Prior review
With respect to each contract for the employment of Individual consultants and for the
employment of firms selected through selection of consultants qualifications, the qualifications,
experience, terms of reference and draft contracts should be furnished to the Bank for its prior
review. The contracts shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. With
respect of the procurement of goods, and works the first two contracts are subject of prior review.
Post review
With respect to every one infive contract not governed by prior review, these will be subject to
post review during visits of Supervision Missions.
Disbursement Arrangements
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C):
The proceeds of the proposed loan are expected to be disbursed over a period of three years. The
project is expected to be completed by June 31, 2003, and the project closing date is December
31, 2003. The ICU will utilize traditional disbursement methods at the start of the project and
consider a move to PMR based disbursements by June 30, 2001.
Use of statements of expenditure (SOEs):
Disbursements will be made against Statements of Expenditure for sub-loans less than DEM
500,000 except for the first three sub-loans and the first three in an amount of more than DEM
200,000. Detailed documents evidencing these expenditures will be reviewed and retained by the
ICU and made available for the required audit as well as to World Bank supervision mission.
Additionally, if individual contracts, which make-up a sub-loan, exceeds the procurement threshold
for prior review by the Bank, these sub-loans will also be submitted to the Bank and fully
documented. Disbursements against sub-loans exceeding the above limit will be made against full
documentation. Disbursement and procurement documents using SOE procedures will be retained
by the ICU for a period of at least two years after disbursement and made available to Bank staff
and external auditors.
Accounts, Auditing, Reporting and Performance Monitoring:
The ICU and banks will maintain records of all transactions under the Kosovo pilot SME line of
credit in accordance with sound accounting practices. Independent auditors acceptable to World
Bank will conduct audits. The audit will be carried out in accordance with International Standard of
Auditing. The project audit would be paid out of the project Technical Assistance component. The
accounts and auditor's report will be submitted to World Bank immediately upon completion, but no
later than six months after the completion of the fiscal year. Based on regular reports from the ICU,
the program audit, and ongoing supervision, World Bank will monitor program implementation on
an ongoing basis.



35
Special account:
World Bank resources will flow from a Special Account in a commercial bank in a EU member
state authorized by the ICU, through banks to suppliers for imported goods and through the
payments system for domestically purchased goods. The authorized allocation of the special
account will be DEM 700,000. At the start of the project the initial deposit will be limited to DEM
400,000. A fraction of funds will be disbursed on a cash basis. Most will be done electronically
based on presentation of proper documentation once invoices are produced and verified. Transfers
into Kosovo will be in DEM. For transactions abroad, the commercial bank administering the
Special Account will apply the appropriate exchange rate (e.g., DEM-Lira). To the extent that the
project will overlap with a period when the DEM ceases to exist in favor of the Euro, the same
practices will apply as needed (e.g., Euro-US$, Euro-Yen).



36
Annex 6 - Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'6
(in DEM million)
Category                  NBF                 Other          Total   Total
Bank  Project
Sub loans                       0.00      5.00    10.00      10.00      10.00   15.00
ICU                             0.00      5.00     0.00       0.00      0.00    5.00
ICU Technical assistance        0.00      2.00     0.00       0.00      0.00    2.00
ICU Operation                   0.00      3.00     0.00       0.00      0.00    3.00
Taxes and duties                0.00      2.00     0.00       0.00      0.00    2.00i
TOTAL                           0.00      12.00    10.00      10        10.0   2200
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). The
procurement arrangement for the items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as "N.B.F."
need to be explained in footnotes to the table or in the text.
Note  "Other" = Under this component, the purchase of civil works, goods, equipment, material/supplies,
services etc. will be financed.
16 For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD] 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment Operations."
Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A, where applicable).



37
Annex 6 -Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
US$ Thousands       ._._ .._                US $ Thousands
1. Works
>50,000<200,000             NCB            First two Packages
<50,000                  Minor works       First two Packages
2. Goods
<50,000              Commercial Practice   First two Packages
>50,000<150.000               IS
3. Consultants         <100,000                   CQ (Firms)       All TORs and contracts
with firms
<50,000              Selection of Individual  All TORs and contracts
Consultants       with Individuals
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Procurement risk is considered to be high
Annex 6 - Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Line of Credit             __                                      100
Total                                  10
17 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and contact
the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



38
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Kosovo: Pilot SME Line of Credit
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)                                          12/01/1999                 02115/2000
Appraisal mission departure                                                  04/17/2000                 04/17/2000
Negotiations                                                                 04/17/2000                 04/17/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                                                09/01/2000                 11/15/2000
Prepared by: UNMIK Interim Administration/World Bank
Preparation assistance: EAR
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Core Team
Gerardo Corrochano           ECSPF                                                    PTL, Sr. Financial Economist
Ramin Shojai                 ECSPF                                                    Financial Specialist
Hiran Herat                  ECSPF                                                    FMS, Sr. Financial Analyst
Peter Mouseley               PSDSE                                                    Sr. Private Sector Development Spec
Dilek Barlas                 LEGEC                                                   Councel
Joseph Formoso               LOAEL                                                    Sr. Disbursement Officer
Eszter Kovacs                ECSHD                                                    PASr
Gyorgy Novotny               ECSHD                                                    PAS
Other Specialists (see below)
Michael Borish               Consultant                                               Banking Specialist
Patrick Tardy                                          Consultant EAR                PSD Specialist
Mehradad Etemad                                        Consultant BEF                PSD Specialist
Field implementation staff
Aurora Ferrari                                         Consultant, Italian Trust Fund  PSD Specialist
Sector Management
Paul Siegelbaum              ECSPF                                                    Sector Director
Yasuo Izumi                  ECSPF                                                    Sector Manager
Peer Reviewers
Tunc Uyanik                  ECSPF                                                    Sr. Financial Specialist
Onno Ruhi                    AFTPS                                                   Pr. PSD Specialist
Pedro Rodriguez              ECSPE                                                   Economist
Ira Lieberman                PSDSE                                                    Sr. Manager



39
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
Kosovo: Pilot SME Line of Credit
A. Project Implementation Plan
Included in the Project Files
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aid Memoire for Pre-appraisal Mission                                         Mar, 2000
Minutes of PCD Review                                                         Feb, 2000
Minutes of QER Review                                                         Feb, 2000
Kosovo: Project Concept Document                                              Feb, 2000
Kosovo: Private Sector Development Report - Mimeo                            Oct, 1999
C. Other
Termns of Reference for Set-up and Operation of ICU                           Feb, 2000
SME Demand Survey (Patrick Tardy funded by EU)                               Mar, 2000
Kosovo Pipelines (Mehradad Etemad funded by BEF)
*Including electronic files.



