Report No. PID9120
Project Name                     Kosovo-SME Credit (Kosovo Trust Fund)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Other Finance
Project ID                       XKPE69629
Borrower(s)                      UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMIN.(UNMIK)
Implementing Agency
Address UNITED NATIONS INTERIM
ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO (UNMIK)
Prestina, Kosovo
Contact Person: Tel: 381 38 500 223
Fax: 873 732 154 522
Environment Category             F
Date PID Prepared                February 10, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         April 4, 2000
Projected Board Date             September 22, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
The proposed pilot project has been conceived as a joint effort of the
European Agency for Reconstruction (EAR) and the World Bank. If proven
successful, the project is expected to facilitate channeling additional
donors' funds to SMEs.    The proposed project is being closely coordinated
with ongoing efforts to identify and implement the recently approved IFC
participation in the BEF. Both initiatives are expected to be highly
complementary.Background to Enterprise sector: As of 1996, privately owned
enterprises contributed to 47 percent of total GDP . However, given the
present collapse of state enterprises, Kosovo's economy is now
predominantly private in orientation at about 80 percent of total economic
activity. According to some local research estimates, there were about
1,700 SMEs operating in some manner in Kosovo in late 1999 (17,000 SMEs
were estimated to operate before the conflict). A more comprehensive
survey is being conducted at the moment to better assess the SME sector
and their credit needs . In essence, general features that characterize
the current situation of the enterprise sector in Kosovo include: n There
is limited industrial production. Thus, Kosovo's emerging private sector
does not include any significant ongoing industrial production or
processing activities; n There is virtually no access to credit for
enterprises. Only one micro-enterprise bank (MEB-Kosovo) has obtained a
license, and this was in late January 2000 (MEB-Kosovo). However, MEB has
not started lending activities, and it is still establishing its
operations while doing basic account management and money transfers. A
second micro-finance institution is also permitted to operate, but loans
are not expected to exceed DEM 2,000 per business; n A new formal
registration system of enterprises has only recently been created. At
present very few enterprises have been registered, and the distinction
between formal and informal sectors is virtually non-existent. The
overall framework of property rights and contract enforcement remains
highly underdeveloped. Growth in the enterprise sector is expected to be
driven almost completely by privately-owned SMEs, old and new. Therefore,



UNMIK's private sector development strategy relies on the implementation
of a regulatory environment that results in making the costs of operating
legally significantly less than the costs of operating illegally.
Further, the legal regime is expected to provide for and promote the
availability of credit by protecting private property rights, allowing for
the use of collateral for lending, and ensuring that contracts are
enforced. Therefore, the strategy will (i) promote the development of
private enterprises already within the official economy, (ii) attempt to
embrace the parallel economy and bring it within the official economy
through a combination of inducements and requirements, and (iii) seek ways
to transfer potentially viable public enterprises to private
ownership/management as well as free up the assets of non-viable
enterprises through liquidation.Background to Banking sector Prior to the
war, Kosovo had four "major" banks and a reported 44 bank branches of
Serbian banks. The four "major" banks were Bank Kos, Ekonomik Bank,
Yugobanka, and Vojvidanska Bank, none of which is operating in any
meaningful way in Kosovo today nor has received a license from Kosovo's
newly established Banking and Payment Authority (BPK). The main
weaknesses of the banking sector include:I the absence of licensed banks
capable of competing along commercial lines;I the inadequacy or
non-existence of meaningful financial information and management systems
in the banking (and enterprise) sector;i the lack of adequate banking
sector infrastructure (e.g., laws and regulations, functioning judicial
capacity, accounting/audit framework) to provide the needed guidelines and
parameters for a well-managed and viable banking sector;I the lack of an
adequate framework for the development of secured lending transactions;i
the absence of financial intermediation (deposit-taking or lending)
resulting from a lack of public confidence, past resource misallocation
and politicization of bank lending.Some progress has been made in recent
months. UNMIK has drafted two banking regulations that create a banking
agency (for licensing and supervision), define banking activities,
establish prudential guidelines and governance and management
requirements, provide for corrective actions, and outline bank
resolution/liquidation guidelines. Thus, basic regulations and an
institutional set-up have recently been introduced for banking and for the
functioning of a revamped payments system, which is now beginning to
operate.However, given the prevailing political risks and the small size
of Kosovo's market, it is unlikely that any prime-rated banks would invest
in Kosovo any time soon. Furthermore, even if there were interest,
experience from neighboring countries indicates that banks are generally
unwilling to lend in conditions of such high risk. Most banks would
provide services to selected companies, but would not lend or assume
risk. Thus, it is unlikely that any meaningful bank lending to the SME
sector will occur. This has prompted the need for an interim vehicle to
ensure that viable SMEs are able to access needed credit until the banking
sector has the funds, inclination and capacity to lend to SMEs. The
Proposed Grant The proposed project is of an emergency and pilot nature
aiming to quickly restore and expand operations of about 60-100 viable
SMEs without waiting for more time-consuming legal and institutional
reforms in the banking and enterprise sectors. In this context, while the
project is not a policy-driven vehicle to further financial or enterprise
reform in Kosovo, it is designed to be consistent with what those reforms
would encompass under more normal circumstances. Therefore, consistent
with its stated objective, the proposed project is expected to:I Provide
timely and efficient access to credit to eligible SMEs;I Provide an
- 2 -



additional incentive to SMEs to become part of the formal system;I Promote
the development of financial information and management systems in the
banking (and enterprise) sectors;I Foster the development of basic
intermediation skills;n Foster public confidence in financial institutions
2. Objectives
The primary objective of the proposed EAR/World Bank line of credit for
SMEs would be to serve as a pilot project to provide financing to SMEs on
market-based terms in an effort to jump-start production and economic
activity of the private sector. Loans to eligible SMEs would be for much
needed inputs and repairs, which in turn are expected to revive some
industrial production and finance an increased proportion of high
value-added services. The secondary objective would be to foster the
incipient incentive structure and institutional framework of the financial
sector that exists currently in Kosovo, to re-establish basic credit
management capacity and loan administration skills of newly emerging
banks, and to indirectly assist SMEs with cash management, budgeting, and
planning, through discipline imposed by the credit process.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Given the importance of having a functioning financial sector to the
reconstruction and recovery of Kosovo, the Bank is supporting UNMIK with
the preparation of a framework for lending to SMEs as part of the overall
program to support private sector development and economic
reconstruction. The Bank is playing a major role on development of the
framework.
4. Description
The proposed project will have two main components:Component A. Pilot SME
Line of Credit Facility which will be administered by the Interim Credit
Unit (ICU)Component B. Project Management and Technical assistance in SME
line of credit facility, which will comprise of the following
sub-components.n Administration/Management*n Credit management (direct
lending to SMEs)n Training and technical assistance (lending through
banks)
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT
IBRD
IDA                      5
EUROPEAN UNION           5
SPECIAL FINANCING
Total Project Cost       10
6. Implementation
Implementation Period: Project implementation will take place over
three years with an expected completion date of June 30, 2003. And grant
closing date of Dec 30, 2003. Project management and implementation:
Because of the dire state of the banking system in Kosovo, the use of
local banks at the outset of the project as a delivery mechanism for
credit to SMEs is considered unfeasible. Therefore, UNMIK has legally
established an operationally autonomous entity in the form of an Interim
Credit Unit (ICU) to implement the project, and to directly lend to
-3 -



qualifying SMEs until emerging banks demonstrate capacity to assume this
role. It is also recommended and built in to the project concept that the
ICU would phase out as a direct lender as quickly as possible so as to not
impede market development of the banking system. It is the project's
objective to reduce direct lending to SMEs as promptly as is feasible, to
experience a proportional shift in lending to/through stable banks (apex
role), and then to be able to exit all together from the credit market.
The proposed ICU would perform the following functions:I serve as an
interim source of direct lending to qualified SMEs;I serve as a source of
on-lending" to banks on a limited basis initially, and increasingly over
time as bank capacity and willingness to manage credit risk increases;I
supply needed bankers/credit analysts from market economies to work with
Kosovars in developing market-based credit risk evaluation and monitoring
systems to assess and process loan applications, monitor performance, and
provide written accounts of performance for internal purposes as well as
to bank supervisors at the BPK.
7. Sustainability
The proposed ICU (and participating banks when qualified) would measure
prospects for sustainability and return on investment financed by the
project through prior sub-loan analysis. For lending made directly by the
ICU to enterprises, this would be done by the ICU's credit advisors and
analysts before being approved for disbursement. It is expected that
parallel efforts to set up advisory assistance to SMEs would help to
streamline the application process up front, and that actual requests for
financing from the ICU would be easier to process due to the higher
quality of loan applications. Coordination between the EAR-Bank-supported
ICU and complementary business advisory service will be important for
successful and effective implementation. For on-lending through
participating banks, initial prospects would be evaluated by the banks
themselves, but would then be subject to the ICU's credit risk evaluation
process and approval. It is assumed that banks would also be interested
in IFC services for prospective real sector clients over time.
Ultimately, sustainability of the revolving credit line beyond the first
sub-loan cycle would depend on timely and full repayment of the sub-loans
by borrowers and participating banks. Beyond the third year of
implementation (after project completion), it is expected that Kosovar
authorities would "privatize" the credit portfolio and credit advisory
sections. The latter course is envisioned from the beginning, and is
expected to begin to occur well before project completion in the form of
increased on-lending to banks, increased technical assistance and training
through banks, and the sale of the ICU loan portfolio when conditions are
appropriate. These are discussed in the exit strategy below. Exit
Strategy: Over time (e.g., two-three years), the portfolio of the ICU
would be expected to devolve to the banking system. This could begin
immediately on a partial basis if there are licensed banks willing and
able to lend. However, at the outset, bank capacity is only expected to
be able to cover a fraction of the range of loans under the project at
most. Thus, the ICU is expected to process a significant portion of the
loans to SMEs under the project during the first year or so. As a pilot
project envisioning no more than 60 first-cycle loans, it is anticipated
that banks would slowly emerge and show an interest in SME lending around
Year 2 of the project. By Year 3, the project would expect to originate
fewer direct loans to SMEs, and to play a more "apex"-type role in
on-lending through the banks. At this juncture, the project would expect
- 4 -



to determine a strategy for selling its portfolio, effectively
transferring it to the banking sector.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
There are no lessons from previous World Bank/IDA implementation of
similar projects in Kosovo. However, the Bank's experience in supporting
a line of credit in the Federation of Bosnia-Herzegovina under the
Emergency Recovery Project (ERP)-along with assistance from the
Governments of the Netherlands, Germany and Italy-helped provide a model,
which could be adapted for replication in Kosovo. This project combined
lending resources (from IDA, a Dutch Trust Fund, and later Italy) and
intensive technical assistance (mainly provided by GTZ of Germany) in an
independent special purpose finance unit to achieve 95 percent repayment
rates and operational viability that was transferable to the banking
sector. The ERP line of credit provided loans of up to DEM 300,000 per
borrower to SMEs in combination with bank training to improve credit risk
evaluation and credit management (some training and lending was
coordinated in conjunction with a USAID bank-training project.). The
project was successful in contributing to banks' capacity to assess credit
and manage risk, and to structure such analysis in conjunction with the
introduction of new prudential regulations utilized by the banking
supervisory authorities to assess the financial condition of banks. The
design of the SME line of credit in Kosovo takes into account these
special circumstances, and is structured to evolve as if it were operating
in a business climate featuring competitive and market-based commercial
banks. Meanwhile, it is also designed to avoid "crowding out" emerging
banks, and seeks to work with them on an increasing basis as their
capacity develops. This includes:I Designing simple loan products;I
Setting interest rates to cover the operational costs of start-up;I
Recruiting adequate numbers of bankers and credit advisors; I Providing
incentives to staff consistent with performance objectives;I Providing
technical assistance for bankers (in banks) and credit analysts; Providing
business advisory services to enterprises (via IFC).
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  It is proposed that (i) sub-loan agreements specify
required information addressing environmental assessment issues; (ii) the
ICU and participating banks compile necessary information to ensure each
enterprise is operating in accordance with local and EU/World Bank
environmental guidelines; and (iii) the ICU monitor enterprises and banks
for compliance with environmental requirements. This arrangements would
be part of the Operational Guidelines in the Project Implementation Plan.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Gerardo M. Corrochano
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473 3568
Fax: 202 522 0005
-5-



12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 12, 2000.
- 6 -



