                          Document of
                        The World Bank




                                                             Report No: 29134

            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                            (TF-24299)

                               ON A

                             GRANT

             IN THE AMOUNT OF DEM 10 MILLION

                                TO

             KOSOVO, SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO

                              FOR A

PILOT SME (Small and Medium Enterprise) LINE OF CREDIT (KOSOVO TF)




                           June 28, 2004

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective March 8, 2004)

                             Currency Unit = Euro
                                     1 Euro = US$ 0.8084
                                     US$ 1 = Euro 1.237

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1    December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BPK     -     Banking and Payments Authority of Kosovo
DM      -     Deutsche Mark
EAR     -     European Agency for Reconstruction
EU      -     European Union
FIL     -     Financial Intermediary Loan
FY      -     Fiscal Year
ICU     -     Interim Credit Union
IDA     -     International Development Association
IFC     -     International Finance Corporation
KCB     -     Kosovo Consolidated Budget
MEB     -     Micro-Enterprise Bank
NGO     -     Non-Governmental Organization
PAD     -     Project Appraisal Document
PISG    -     Provisional Institutions of Self-Government
QAG     -     Quality Assurance Group
SEED    -     Southeast Europe Enterprise Developmnent
SME     -     Small and Medium Enterprise
TA      -     Technical Assistance
TOR     -     Terms of Reference
TSS     -     Transitional Support Strategy
UNMIK   -     United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo

                            Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                         Country Director       Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                 Sector Manager/Director        Gerardo Corrochano/Fernando Montes-Negret
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Silvia Minotti

                                           KOSOVO
                      PILOT SME LINE OF CREDIT (KOSOVO TF)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28

Project ID: P069629                                                  Project Name: SME CREDIT (KOSOVO TF)
Team Leader: Silvia Minotti                                          TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 28, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: SME CREDIT (KOSOVO TF)                                   L/C/TF Number: TF-24299
   Country/Department: KOSOVO                                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Other industry (100%)
                  Theme: Small and medium enterprise support (P); Other financial and
                            private sector development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/01/2000                                     Effective: 09/01/2000                11/15/2000
     Appraisal: 04/17/2000                                         MTR: 02/17/2003                  02/17/2003
      Approval: 10/05/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMIN.(UNMIK)/UNITED NATIONS
                                           INTERIM ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO (UNMIK)) and the Interim Credit
                                           Union (ICU)
                      Other Partners:      European Agency for Reconstruction (EAR)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Director:                Fernando Montes-Negret                         Paul J. Siegelbaum
Team Leader at ICR:             Silvia Minotti                                 Gerardo M. Corrochano
ICR Primary Author:             Silvia Minotti


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Background
The Emergency Situation and Its Impact.             In 1989 the autonomy of Kosovo within the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia was abrogated and a decade of social and economic hardship began, leading to the
1999 spring conflict. During that decade, Albanian Kosovars were excluded from civic life, including
university education, and many of them were forced to quit their public sector jobs. On June 10, 1999 the
UN Security Council approved resolution 1244 which authorized the deployment of an international
security force (KFOR) and the establishment of a UN-managed civilian administration, the UN Mission in
Kosovo (UNMIK). Under this resolution Kosovo remains a province of Serbia but is to have "substantial
autonomy and self-administration".

One key objective of UNMIK's post-conflict strategy was the reconstruction and revitalization of economic
activity of the private sector. The situation was exacerbated by the fact that the transition to a market
economy made almost no progress at all during the preceding 10 years. At the end of the 1999 conflict,
Kosovo's financial sector, as well as all the other sectors of the economy, were in chaos. All of the
Yugoslav banks had pulled out, taking their customers' deposits with them, the centralized payments
system had ceased to exist, and the legal environment was tremendously weak. The 10-year absence of any
kind of lending to the SME sector in Kosovo had severely hampered the growth opportunities of the micro
and small-medium enterprise sector. Industrial output had collapsed and agriculture production had
plummeted. Unemployment was extremely high and official per capita income low. In late 1999, UNMIK
introduced the legal, regulatory and supervisory framework for a nascent financial sector, and established
the Banking and Payments Authority of Kosovo (BPK) as the regulator and supervisor for the banking and
insurance sectors. By early 2000, there was virtually no capacity or willingness in the remains of the
financial sector to lend to the SME sector. At the initiative of IFC and other donors, the Micro-Enterprise
Bank (MEB) was founded and started its operations in January 2000 as the first licensed bank in
post-conflict Kosovo. MEB started its operations by focusing on fee-generating services (e.g., transfers,
safekeeping, etc). Its lending activity was limited to financing small-scale or micro enterprises engaged in
rapid turnover businesses (e.g., commercial trade).

Objective
In response to the post-conflict emergency, the primary objective of the Pilot SME Line of Credit was to
provide financing to SMEs on market-based terms in an effort to jump-start production and economic
activity of the private sector. Loans to eligible SMEs were for much needed inputs and repairs, which in
turn were expected to revive some industrial production and finance an increased proportion of high
value-added services. The secondary objective of the project was to reinforce reforms in the financial
sector incentive structure and institutional framework introduced by UNMIK to help re-establish basic
credit management capacity and loan administration skills of newly emerging banks, and to assist SMEs by
increasing financial discipline and planning capacity through the credit process.

Although the project was not -from a technical viewpoint- an "emergency operation", its spirit followed OP
8.50 (August 1995), which states that the main objectives of "emergency recovery assistance are to restore
assets and production levels in the disrupted economy. The Bank finances investment and productive
activities rather than relief or consumption". OP 8.50 further states that emergency assistance may take
inter alia the form of provision of an emergency recovery loan.

The project was an appropriate instrument to address the emergency of intermediating credit to the SME
sector in the period immediately after the conflict. The project's objectives were fully consistent with the



                                                     - 2 -

Kosovo's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) that was discussed by the Board on October 7, 1999. The
TSS provided a framework for rapid Bank intervention to assist Kosovo's reconstruction and recovery
efforts for the 18 months immediately after the conflict. The project was effective in November 2000, and
closed in December 2003.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised. The performance indicators against which the assessment of
achievement of the primary development object was to be made were changed during implementation.
Issues related to the performance indicators are described in 3.6.

3.3 Original Components:
The project was an investment operation co-financed by the European Agency for Reconstruction (EAR)
and the International Development Association (IDA) acting as Administrator of the Trust Fund for
Kosovo.

With the absence of a financial intermediary willing and capable of intermediating credit to SMEs in
Kosovo, UNMIK established the Interim Credit Union (ICU) for implementation of the project. The ICU
was the first non-bank financial institution licensed in the post-conflict Kosovo and received its license on
April 20, 2000. The ICU's management was outsourced to an experienced consulting company that
implemented the line of credit with support from local staff under a management contract financed by the
EAR. The ICU relied upon a Steering Committee whose members were representatives of UNMIK, the
Bank, the EAR, ICU, and the Central Fiscal Authority/Ministry of Finance and Economy. The Chairman,
who was a representative of UNMIK-Pillar IV, benefited from a casting vote.

The project had the following components:

Component 1: Sub-Loans (Euro 5,112,919 million equivalent from IDA, and a total of Euro 6.4
million from EAR/EU)
This component was intended to finance interim credit intermediation to complement the incipient lending
capacity that existed in the banking system without creating any credit market distortion. The ICU had the
authority to perform two types of lending: (i) to participating banks for on-lending to enterprises, and (ii)
direct lending to eligible enterprises. De facto, the component supported direct provision of working capital
and investment loans up to Euro 150,000 and for a maturity up to three years, and typically included a
grace period for principal repayment of up to 6 months.

Component 2: Administration/Management of the ICU and Technical assistance for bankers (Euro
2.2 million equivalent)
The component, which was fully financed by the EAR, included two sub-components for financing: (i)
ICU's operational costs, including the salaries of local and international staff and the financial audit; and
(ii) basic training on credit risk assessment and management for ICU's local staff and loan officers of the
emerging banks as new banks were licensed by BPK.

The design of both components was clearly linked to the project development objectives as the project
addressed UNMIK's priorities to intermediate credit for the economic recovery of the SME sector and to
further develop the institutional capacity of the nascent banking sector.
3.4 Revised Components:
Project components were not revised. However, the lending arrangements for the line of credit component
were restructured during implementation to incorporate the risk mitigation measures that had become
available in the market (See 4.1).



                                                      - 3 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The ICR rates the quality at entry as satisfactory because: (i) the project objectives were fully consistent
with the TSS and UNMIK's priority of jump starting economic activity through intermediating credit to
SMEs, in spite of formidable constraints due to the dire stage of the banking system; (ii) the project design
addressed implementation capacity constraints and risks by incorporating flexibility, and by adopting all
risk mitigation measures available in Kosovo and (iii) the design of the project and the flexibility built in it
were a model for mobilizing additional donor assistance, which led to EAR's decision to increase its
cofinancing by Euro 6 million to further support ICU's lending activity to SMEs.

The project was subject to a Quality Enhancement Review supported by the Quality Assurance Group
(QAG) on February 14, 2000, shortly before the decision package review meeting. The Quality Assurance
Review Panel endorsed the overall project objectives, and the clear identification of the significant risks
involved in the operation. In particular, the panel explicitly recognized the high risk nature of the project
and that Bank management would have to take that as a given. Concerns raised and recommendations
made by the panel were addressed during the project preparation and implementation. The panel expressed
concern about the risks of ICU's conversion into a state development bank at the closure of the project. In
fact, the establishment of an ad-hoc financial institution to implement the line of credit would
simultaneously create the challenge of identifying and implementing an exit strategy for ICU by the end of
the three-year implementation period, without creating distortionary effects in the credit market and/or
contingent liabilities for the Kosovo Consolidated Budget (KCB). The panel's concerns were addressed
during the project implementation by on-going efforts to identify and implement a proper exit strategy for
ICU before the closing date.       Following the panel's recommendations, the project team decided to
out-source ICU's management to a reputable institution with a good track record in implementation of
similar operations in difficult lending environments. Given the uncertainty of the project, the panel also
suggested that benchmarks for monitoring project performance were set as a range of outcomes and not
absolute numbers or loan targets. However, this recommendation was not incorporated, and performance
indicators had to be changed during implementation.

3.6. Issues with Performance Indicators
Except for the Job Creation, the other performance indicators - Cumulative Lending, Loan Volume, and
Cost Recovery - were inadequate measures of the project development objective as they were designed to
measure the volume of loan disbursement rather than the impact of emergency financing in
revitalizing/restarting private sector activities in post-conflict Kosovo. In addition, these performance
indicators and the related numeric targets set for two of them assumed: (i) a second cycle of loans, and (ii)
an expected income from the lending activity exceeding local operating costs and provisions against loan
losses, to be achieved in a post-conflict environment over the three-year project implementation period. By
early 2002, it became obvious that both of these assumptions were unattainable. Moreover, the high risks
(duly recognized by the Bank team and the QAG panel) of intermediating credits in the "absence of any
framework and judicial system within which loans can be provided and collected with any sense of
security" had fully materialized.

In January 2003, given the poor repayment record, and with the expectations that significant demand for
funds would continue after the lending moratorium and the adoption of the new risk mitigation measures
that had become meantime available (See Par.4.1), in consultation with QAG, the project team proposed to
replace the "Cumulative Lending" and "Loan Volume" performance indicators with the "Number and
volume of performing loans", and "Number and volume of non-performing loans". No numeric targets
were set for the new indicators. Given the far-advanced stage of implementation of the project, and the
consequent need of finding a proper exit strategy for ICU before December 2003, the team could not



                                                     - 4 -

introduce performance indicators which would better measure performance against development objectives
(e.g., increase in the production and turnover of borrowing enterprises, etc.). In fact, their introduction
would have required a drastic adjustment to ICU's evaluation and monitoring system and the collection of
the necessary information from all of ICU's clients, including those who already repaid their loans. The
disconnect between the project primary development objective and its performance indicators caused
problems during supervision because it prevented a proper monitoring and evaluation of achievement of the
project development objective.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The stated primary objective of the Pilot SME Line of Credit was to "provide financing to SMEs on
market-based terms in an effort to jump-start production and economic activity of the private sector". The
project filled the critical gap of SME financing and effectively functioned as an interim credit
intermediation mechanism, without creating any distortions in the credit market or contingent liabilities for
the KCB. The project's main achievements were:
   The prompt provision, on market-based terms, of much needed loans of a relatively significant size and
    maturity to about 60 private SMEs in all regions of Kosovo, including minority and gender groups,
    that resulted in an employment generation well beyond initial expectations, with more than 1,000 jobs
    directly created;
   Strengthened banking intermediation that was achieved thanks to training provided to loan officers of
    newly licensed banks and an ongoing adjustment of ICU's role and activities to the changing capacity
    of the banking system to absorb credit risks;
   An exit strategy for the IDA-funded portion of ICU's loan portfolio that not only was implemented
    without creating any distortion in the credit market, but also resulted in a cash contribution of over
    Euro 3.6 million to the KCB, representing nearly 80% of the total funds disbursed under the grant. In
    addition, through the sale of the ICU's loan portfolio to the banking sector, the project: (i) reaffirmed
    the intended interim nature of ICU's intermediation function; and (ii) reinforced the principle of
    complementarity of the roles of donor-funded initiatives.

However, if measured against its original or revised performance indicators, the project did not fully
achieve its primary development as only the Job Creation performance indicator was fully met. In
particular, as of June 30, 2003, provisions against loan losses amounted to 59.3 percent of an outstanding
EAR/IDA-funded loan portfolio totaling Euro 4,748,217. On that date, out of the 58 outstanding loans, 35
were past due loans (over 30 days), including 22 loans classified as losses. For these reasons, the overall
outcome and achievement of objectives are considered unsatisfactory.

The project experienced the well-recognized risks of intermediating credits in a post-conflict environment
characterized by the lack of transparency in the enterprise sector, the embryonic development of the
financial infrastructure (e.g., credit information bureau, pledge registry, cadastral office), and financial
products (e.g., letters of credit, insurance against theft or fire), which are necessary to support prudent
lending activity. In addition, the absence of any formal legal structure to support credit collection within a
reasonable period of time, and at a reasonable cost contributed to a progressive deterioration of the quality
of ICU's loan portfolio and related increase of the amount of loan loss provisions. In this context, a second
cycle of loans never materialized and the income from lending activity never exceeded local operating costs
and provisions against loan losses. Consequently, the project was rated Unsatisfactory during
implementation and kept the same rating until closure.

The project's secondary development objective of strengthening the institutional capacity of the emerging



                                                     - 5 -

banking system was achieved earlier than planned. In December 2002, UNMIK, EAR and the World Bank
agreed that there was no need for ICU to continue to be engaged in training activities as newly emerged
local banks had developed in-house training programs and other donor agencies had been extremely active
in providing specialized training. The sale itself of the IDA-portion of ICU portfolio to the banking system
demonstrates the increased capacity of the banking sector to assess and manage additional credit risks.

The Restructuring of ICU's Lending Arrangements
In spring 2002, as the quality of ICU's outstanding loan portfolio showed signs of progressive
deterioration, the Chairman of the Steering Committee of ICU decided to stop any new loan disbursement.
The Bank carried out a comprehensive review of ICU's lending process, and arrangements. To that end,
two fronts were addressed simultaneously: (i) the ICU's outstanding loan portfolio, with the objective of
stabilizing and improving its quality; and (ii) the ICU's portfolio of potential new loans, with the objective
of reducing their risks as much as possible. The Bank, UNMIK, EAR and ICU agreed on extensive
amendments to the Operations Manual and the sub-loan and security agreements that would introduce new
risk mitigation measures that had become available in the local market. The proposed changes were
translated into a detailed action plan. In November 2002, as the corrective action plan had been fully
implemented, the Steering Committee decided that the ICU could restart lending activity.

Corrective measures taken were effective in reducing the risks related to new sub-loans. In fact, all the
loans approved under the new lending rules were classified as "Standard", and kept that classification until
ICU's exit strategy was implemented. ICU followed a more active monitoring policy and a more aggressive
loan collection activity including legal actions against each of the borrowers in default that contributed to
stabilize the quality of the loan portfolio and increase the "attractiveness of the bad loans" for future sale.

The Exit Strategy for the IDA-funded Portion of ICU's Loan Portfolio
Discussions on a possible exit strategy had always been an important item in the agenda of each meeting of
the Steering Committee. In particular, the exit strategy recommended for ICU by EAR was particularly
relevant for the Bank because of EAR's financing of all the operational costs of ICU. In this regard, it
should be noted that the management contract of the consulting company was due to end in October 2003,
and the financial audit would cover the one-year period ending August 31, 2003, while the closing date of
the IDA grant had been established for December 31, 2003.

The EAR informed the parties about its decision to consolidate all existing EAR lines of credit into one
demand-driven fund, and to accordingly transfer the EAR-funded portion of ICU's loan portfolio by
October 2003. After the necessary research and analysis, the Bank was convinced of the feasibility of a
sale of the IDA-funded portfolio, including both performing and non-performing loans, to private local
banks. The Bank's recommendation was based on the following: (i) increasing banking competition on the
same segment of demand for funds that would represent ICU's institutional target, and a consequent
considerable drop in the number of new loan applications experienced by ICU since December 2002; (ii)
ICU's function of an interim credit mechanism established to complement the credit capacity of the banking
sector; and (iii) significant size of the aggregate supply of funds potentially available at market interest
rates, also sustained by a smooth growth of the deposit base.

Following the Bank recommendation, in June 2003, UNMIK agreed to sell the IDA portion of the ICU
outstanding loan portfolio. As of May 31, 2003, the IDA portfolio consisted of 36 sub-loans for a total
amount of Euro 2,939,781. Of the IDA-funded 36 outstanding loans, 15 were classified as "Standard" for
an amount of about Euro 1.0 million, while 12 were considered as "Losses" for an amount totaling about
Euro 1.3 million. (For detailed information about the loan classification of the IDA portion of ICU loan
portfolio, see Section 10 "Additional Information", Table 3a). All banks licensed by BPK were invited to


                                                      - 6 -

submit bids for the entire portfolio of performing and non-performing loans. Four of the seven commercial
banks conducted their own due diligence on the loan portfolio and one submitted a bid. UNMIK accepted
the proposed offer as the bid exceeded UNMIK's confidential reserve price, and IDA granted the consent
necessary to finalize the sale. The sale/purchase agreement between ICU and the winning bank was duly
signed on July 30, 2003, and the sale price was paid in favor of UNMIK in a sub-account of the KCB. As
soon as the financial audit report was finalized, the proceeds of the ICU's lending activity funded by the
IDA grant were also transferred to the KCB. Total proceeds accruing to the KCB from the grant, including
repayment of principal, interest, and fees, as well as the proceeds of the sale, were Euro 3,636,794,
representing 78.6 percent of the total amount of the funds disbursed under the grant. The undisbursed
balance of Euro 484,607 was cancelled on December 1, 2003, with the closing of the Special Account.

The Bank considers UNMIK's exit strategy for the credit line to be a successful approach, as it confirms
the willingness and ability of local banks to absorb credit risks, the absence of which were a fundamental
reason for establishment of the credit line in the first place. The winning bank is a viable commercial bank,
and the price offered represents a fair price that was the result of a transparent open tender. In addition, the
operation has not led to the loss of any job as the commercial bank decided to hire all the local staff of the
ICU.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1. Sub-Loans (for a total amount of Euro 13.1 million equivalent financed as follows:
Euro 5,112,918.81 equivalent from the World Bank, Euro 2.6 million equivalent from EAR, and
Euro 6 million from the European Union)
Thanks to good cooperation with the IFC-supported Southeast Europe Enterprise Development (SEED),
and other donor-funded business advisory services, ICU was able to identify potential new borrowers
before the grant's effectiveness, and started lending activity immediately thereafter. In fact, the first
sub-loan was approved seven days after the grant had become effective. ICU's activity in the early stage of
implementation of the project was particularly intense. In the period between November 2000 and
December 2001, ICU processed 236 loan applications and approved a total of 54 loans. As a result, at the
end of the first year of implementation of the project, 78% of the grant funds had been disbursed.

ICU approved a total of 64 sub-loans to about 60 enterprises in all regions of Kosovo. Credits financed
working capital and investment financial needs of a wide range of productive activities such as wood and
food processing, furniture production, concrete production, mushroom production, juice production, etc.
Interest rates were set at competitive interest rates, and periodically reviewed to ensure that they were in
line with those offered by all the lending institutions active in Kosovo, including other donor-funded lines of
credit. The average loan size, and maturity were, respectively, Euro 122,000 and 2.8 years. The average
interest rate was 13.95%. Loans disbursed to minority and gender groups represented nearly 10% of the
total number of loans. These loans financed productive activities in the manufacturing sector (e.g, medical
and aromatic herbs), as well as a ski school and laundry services. Over the life of the project, more than
1,000 new jobs were directly created by the SMEs supported by ICU. This is a remarkable achievement as
the project had foreseen the creation of "only" 600 direct jobs.

Since December 2002, ICU's new lending activity experienced a drastic reduction. In the period between
January and May 2003, ICU received 7 loan applications, and approved and disbursed four new loans
totaling about Euro 350,000. The significant reduction of new lending activity was due to: (i) the loss of
potential new clients during the May-November 2002 lending moratorium; (ii) the significant drop in the
number of loan applications received by ICU after December 2002; (iii) the adoption of more stringent
lending arrangements as a result of the introduction of the risk mitigation measure that had become
available during the project implementation; and (iv) the increasing competition from the commercial banks



                                                       - 7 -

on the same segment of demand for funds that would represent ICU's institutional target.

The goal to satisfy the financing requests of a cash-starved private sector, and the difficulties of making
prudent lending decisions in the substantial absence of the mechanisms and institutions proper of a modern
market economy, resulted in a quick loan disbursement, and a progressive deterioration of the quality of the
loan portfolio. A total of 18 of the 23 loans (representing nearly 80 percent of the bad loans by number)
classified as "Losses" in May 2003, had been approved in the first year of project implementation, when
very few risk mitigation measures were available in the local market. There were some cases where the
borrower never intended to use the loan proceeds for the purposes stated in the business plan and loan
agreement, and could not show documents supporting the actual purchase of the equipment for which the
loan had been disbursed. With the restructuring of the project and the possibility of using letters of credit as
a standard form of payment, ICU made the payments to the supplier by ways of letters of credit enforcing
compliance with the equipment indicators set by the purchaser. Such a measure contributed to mitigate the
risk of mis-use of the loan proceeds, and since the restructuring ICU did not experience one single case of
mis-use of funds.

Component 2. ICU operations, technical assistance for training in credit management (US$ 2.75
million equivalent)
The firm contracted for managing ICU started its assignment in August 2000.                Although all the
expenditures under this component were entirely financed by EAR, the Bank was always consulted for all
the relevant decisions affecting ICU's operations or required by the project arrangements. Along these
lines, TOR for the management contract, and annual financial audits, were also reviewed and agreed by the
Bank. The Bank was also consulted for any decision related to contract extensions or terminations for
ICU's staff.

ICU experienced a change in its managing director in July 2002, with the ending of the original two-year
contract. The position of Managing Director of ICU was never vacant as a new Managing Director with a
solid working experience matured in difficult lending environment, including Kosovo, started his
assignment in early-August 2002.

The component financed technical assistance for local banks. Bank loan officers received training
according to the results of training needs assessments undertaken by ICU. ICU delivered several rounds of
training programs. Each of them consisted of a five-week program covering topics such as loan appraisal,
classification and recovery. The last round took place between February and April 2002. A total of 28
bank loan officers were trained. No bank received training as a potential participating financial institution
because the Apex Unit never became operational. In late 2002, ICU's Steering Committee decided that
there was no longer a need for ICU to be engaged in training activities as the local banks had developed
in-house training programs, and other donor agencies were active in providing more specialized training.

ICU's staff was trained to assist in the running of ICU's operations. ICU's staff benefited from more
comprehensive and specialized training programs than those delivered to newly established banks. Training
also covered Management Information System, financial analysis, and SME financing.               The training
program also took the form of on-the-job training, and was complemented by a two-week course in Ireland.
Training for ICU's local staff ended in December 2002. The training proved to be effective as the winning
bank decided to hire all ICU's local staff when the IDA-funded portion of ICU's loan portfolio was sold
out.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A



                                                    - 8 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall, the institutional development impact is rated modest, and is manifested in following ways:
   Training provided to loan officers and credit analysts of newly established banks contributed to
    strengthen their capacity in assessing SME financing needs and credit risks;
   The establishment and operations of ICU were catalyst for the development of the banking sector; and
   The tender of ICU's loan portfolio to all the banks licensed in Kosovo introduced transparent market
    mechanisms in the banking sector that were well accepted by the banks. It also reinforced the principle
    of complementarity of the roles of donor-funded initiatives and of the banking system both at the
    banking and enterprise sector level.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The implementation of the project and its outcome were negatively affected by the significant weaknesses
of the lending environment such as: (i) a culture of non-payment; (ii) poor enforcement of creditors rights
and contracts in court; (iii) scarce transparency of the enterprise sector; and (iv) lack and/or developmental
stage of the financial infrastructure (e.g., credit information bureau, pledge registry, cadastral office), and
financial products (e.g., letters of credit, insurance against theft or fire) necessary to support prudent
lending decision and satisfactory repayment records. Although ICU promptly took legal actions against all
the borrowers in default, no case had been completed before the sale of the portfolio. Deficiencies in the
court procedures allowed the process to be abused. Performance of the courts was weak, and appeal and
adjournments were excessively easy to obtain. The poor repayment records experienced by ICU might also
be related to the large scale of fully-subsidized grant programs with similar development objectives that
were available in the post-conflict Kosovo. It is likely that such fully-subsidized grant programs had a
negative influence on the credit discipline of the borrowers of market-based terms credit programs such as
ICU.

The project implementation was also affected by the increasing competition in the banking market.
Although it reduced ICU's lending activity in the last stage of project implementation, it was a welcomed
development that made also possible the sale of the IDA-funded portion of ICU's loan portfolio to the
banking sector. In 2001, when the project registered the highest loan approval and disbursement rates,
BPK licensed 6 new banks that gradually started their lending activity. In particular, in mid-2002, banks
started to offer loans up to three years, which up until one year before had been offered only by ICU.

The project benefited from a close and effective donor cooperation and coordination in all the phases of its
implementation. The Bank and the EAR were effective in mobilizing the support of a number of
donor-funded business advisory services, including the IFC-supported SEED, and NGOs, to identify
potential new borrowers. This close donor cooperation allowed ICU to start its lending activity immediately
after the grant's effectiveness. The cofinancers also ensured a prompt identification of problems, and
consequent definition and implementations of proper corrective actions. The exit strategy for the
IDA-portion of ICU's loan portfolio was also closely coordinated with the EAR.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The implementation of the project and its outcome were positively affected by UNMIK commitment to
facilitate the intermediation of credit to SMEs. To that end, UNMIK established ICU to implement the line
of credit, and provided ICU with the independence necessary for making sound lending decisions. Through


                                                       - 9 -

the Chairman of ICU's Steering Committee, it also stopped new loan disbursements when the quality of the
loan portfolio had shown signs of deterioration.            UNMIK was also extremely supportive to the
implementation of the consequent restructuring program, and ensured the timely finalization of the sale of
the IDA-funded portion of ICU's loan portfolio. The project also benefited from UNMIK's commitment to
develop an open and transparent market economy, and a business environment enabling private sector
growth. During the project implementation, many of the institutions (e.g., pledge registry, credit
information bureau, etc) necessary for the development of a sound banking sector were established.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementation of the project and its outcome benefited from ICU's ability to provide financing to
SMEs, and to adjust its lending role to the changing capacity of the banking sector to absorb credit risks.
ICU also ensured the prompt implementation of the agreed restructuring plan and the diligent organization
and finalization of the tender of the loan portfolio.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The original total cost of the project was DEM 20 million (Euro 10,225,837 equivalent). Financing
included an IDA grant amount of DEM 10 million (Euro 5,112,919 equivalent), and an EAR contribution
of DEM 10 million, which was increased by additional Euro 6 million for sub-loan financing during the
project implementation. As foreseen by the project's arrangements, EAR covered ICU's operational costs,
including the financial audit, and training activities.

On December 1, 2003, about 90% of the IDA grant had been disbursed, and the undisbursed balance of
Euro 484,607 was cancelled.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of an emergency operation hinges on the operation's contribution to easing the
post-conflict crisis and resuming a path of growth. UNMIK and the PISG are firmly committed to
economic, social, and political reforms, and continue to pursue the process of legal, regulatory, and
institutional development necessary for strengthening a business environment conducive of private sector
growth. With the positive economic growth, the increased banking intermediation, and the focus on a sound
macro-economic framework, the recovery from the post-conflict crises appears sustainable.

The spirit of the project was never to create a permanent lending institution. On the contrary, emphasis was
always given to find and implement a proper exit strategy for ICU before the closing date of the project so
as to prevent the creation of a state-owned development bank with potential distortionary effects in the
credit market or contingent liabilities for the KCB. In this regard, the sustainability of the operation is also
supported by the successful sale of the IDA-portion of ICU portfolio to a bank licensed in Kosovo. The
sale has demonstrated the banking sector's capacity and willingness to absorb credit risks, the absence of
which were a fundamental reason for establishment of the credit line in the first place.

Overall, the sustainability of the project is rated likely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The transition process to regular operations is completed. Both UNMIK and the PISG are committed to
reforms enabling sustainable economic growth and employment. Overall priorities have been outlined in the
Standards for Kosovo, released by UNMIK in December 2003 with the broad support of the Kosovar
institutions, as well as the Strategies for Kosovo's Mid-Term Economic Development released by the
Prime Minister and Minister of Finance in June 2003.



                                                       - 10 -

Despite considerable progress towards many of the Standards, much remains to be done. In April 2004,
the Bank approved a new TSS for Kosovo for the next 18 months which aims at further building capacity
to strengthen economic and public expenditure management, and promoting economic growth.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the preparation of the project is rated Satisfactory. The Bank was responsive
to the need for emergency financing for the resumption of the enterprise sector, and identified an
appropriate delivery instrument in a timely manner. The Bank was able to process the project from
identification (mid-February 2000) to Board approval (early October, 2000) in less than eight months.
During the relatively short preparation period, the Bank and the EAR, in close consultation with UNMIK,
proactively found a proper solution to the lack of implementation capacity of the post-conflict Kosovo in
the establishment of the ICU and in the outsourcing of its management to an experienced consulting firm
that would implement the line of credit with the support of local staff.

The Bank identified an operation that was fully consistent with the UNMIK's priorities and with the Bank's
TSS for Kosovo. The project supported the rehabilitation of the private sector, the quick re-start of viable
economic activities, and the creation of employment opportunities in all the region of Kosovo. It also
contributed to strengthening banking intermediation by flexibly adjusting ICU's role and functions to the
changing capacity and willingness of the banking system to absorb credit risks. However, the adoption of a
set of outcome-based performance indicators would have allowed a better monitoring and evaluation of
achievement of project development objectives.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision of the project is rated Satisfactory. The Bank closely supervised the project. The
Bank's staff was methodical in identifying priority issues and problems and systemically sought agreements
with UNMIK, the EAR, and ICU on appropriate measures and actions to address problems, and to
smoothly implement a proper exit strategy for ICU. The supervision missions consisted of a good mix of
financial sector and private sector development specialists (technical aspects), and relied on the Bank's
financial management and procurement specialists for the project's fiduciary aspects. The Bank's resident
specialist provided a significant support in all the operational aspects of the project, including the timely
finalization of the sale of the IDA-portion of ICU portfolio.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank's performance is rated Satisfactory because the Bank responded quickly to Kosovo's urgent
need for providing needed financing for the enterprise sector in the emergency of the post-conflict
environment by designing an appropriate delivery instrument that was also able to mobilize additional
donor funding, and because the Bank closely supervised the project, promptly restructured ICU's lending
arrangements to introduce the risk mitigation measures as they had became available in the local market,
and played an important role in identifying and ensuring the transparent implementation of a proper exist
strategy for ICU.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
UNMIK's performance in the design and preparation of the project is rated Satisfactory. The strong
commitment of UNMIK to the operation resulted in UNMIK's establishment of the ICU as a non-bank
financial institution licensed by the BPK, and the quick effectiveness of the grant. The grant became



                                                    - 11 -

effective about one month after the Bank Board approval. UNMIK was also proactive in implementing
basic reforms for developing the banking sector and a business environment conducive to private sector
development.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall, UNMIK's performance in the implementation of the project is rated Satisfactory. Through the
Chairman of ICU's Steering Committee, UNMIK-Pillar IV played a proactive role in ensuring a smooth
implementation of the project. UNMIK and PSIG full support to the Bank's recommended exit strategy for
the IDA-funded portion of ICU loan portfolio also ensured the timely finalization of the sale of the loan
portfolio, and its prompt transfer to the winning bank.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Overall, the ICU's performance is rated Satisfactory. Regular reports and data on project financial
management, disbursements, financial status, and conditions of the loan portfolio were always made
available to the Bank in a timely manner.           ICU ensured the timely implementation of the agreed
restructuring plan and the successful finalization of the sale of the IDA-funded portion of ICU's loan
portfolio.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower's performance is rated Satisfactory. The Authorities remained consistent with their
reform commitments and objectives, and played an active role during all the phases of the implementation
of the project, including its restructuring, and the sale of the loan portfolio to the banking system.

8. Lessons Learned

       Risks common to all the Financial Intermediary Loans (FILs) are amplified when the FIL is
implemented in a post-conflict environment. Lenders face massive information deficiencies that can not be
properly filled because of the lack of transparency in the enterprise sector, the embryonic development of
the financial infrastructure (e.g., credit information bureau, pledge registry, cadastral office), and financial
products (e.g., letters of credit, insurance against theft or fire), which are necessary to support prudent
lending activity. In addition, lenders can not rely upon courts enabling the enforcement of creditors rights
and contracts within a reasonable period of time, and at a reasonable cost.

       In post-conflict situations, project performance indicators for emergency FILs should be designed
to measure the impact of the emergency financing in restarting economic activity rather than the volume of
loan disbursement. The lack of appropriate performance indicators causes problems during supervision
because it prevents a proper monitoring and evaluation of achievement of project development objectives.

       Effective risk mitigation measures are generally not available in the emergency of a post-conflict
situation. They become available during the project implementation to the extent that the authorities are
strongly committed in reforming the economy, and have well-prioritized and successfully implemented their
reform plans.

       The implementation of a line of credit in a post-conflict situation requires an intensive supervision
and a strong ability and willingness to adjust the project's sub-lending arrangements to the rapid
developments of banking sector, and to the changing capacity of the banking sector to absorb credit risks.

       The existence of non-market based, fully-subsidized grant programs with similar development
objectives negatively affects the repayment records of credit programs on market-based terms.



                                                      - 12 -

       In a post-conflict situation characterized by the absence of a financial intermediary willing and
capable of lending to SMEs, the establishment of an ad-hoc non-bank financial institution and the
outsourcing of its management to an experienced consulting company can serve as effective measures to
address the need for the timely provision of much needed financing to eligible SMEs.

       The establishment of an ad-hoc financial institution for implementation of an emergency line of
credit simultaneously creates the challenge of identifying and implementing, within the typically short
implementation period of an emergency loan, an exit strategy that does not result in distortionary effects in
the credit market or contingent liabilities for the government's budget (e.g., a state-owned development
bank). Factors to help achieve a successful exit strategy include: (i) careful and close monitoring of the
rapid changes of the intermediation capacity of the banking sector; (ii) a banking sector's well-recognized
market positioning of the project implementing financial institution as an interim credit intermediation
mechanism that not only is not in competition with the banking sector, but it also mobilizes technical
assistance to further strengthen its institutional capacity; and (iii) a good policy dialogue with authorities
fully committed in implementing reform plans.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments from UNMIK:




                                                     - 13 -

Comments from the Ministry of Finance and Economy:




                                              - 14 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
Comments from the European Agency for Reconstruction:




                                             - 15 -

- 16 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A




                                             - 17 -

10. Additional Information

Summary of the Line of Credit Component



                Table 1: ICU's Loan Approval Rates and Grant Disbursement (2000-2003)
                    Loan Applications         Loan Applications    % Loan Applications         % Funds Disbursed
                         Received                 Approved                Approved              under the Grant
                                                                                                  (cumulative)


2000-2001                    236                      54                     22.9                    77.85
2002 (1)                     74                       6                       8.1                    87.49
2003 (2)                      7                       4                      57.1                    90.52
Total                        317                      64                     20.2                    90.52
(1) The data for 2002 reflect the May-November lending moratorium.
(2) The data for 2003 refer to the period January-May.




                    Table 2: ICU's Outstanding Loan Portfolio (Audited Accounts)
                                        August 2001           August 2002             August 2003

                                   In Euro (1)Number of    In Euro  Number of      In Euro    Number of
                                                 loans                 loans                     loans
        IDA                         3,047,476     23       3,654,654     35        2,939,781      36
                                                                                           (2)

        EAR first tranche           2,132,847     17       2,029,617     18        1,616,840      17
        EAR second tranche    (3)           --    --        100,000       1         285,794        5


        Total                      5,180,323      40     5,784,271       54       4,853,393       58
        (1) The original amount in DM are converted into Euro at the official exchange rate of one Euro equal to
        1.05583 DM
        (2) Data are referred to May 31, 2003, an based on ICU and Bank calculations (Un-audited accounts)
        (3) EAR second tranche became available in 2002




                                                      - 18 -

                                        Table 3: ICU's Outstanding Loan Portfolio
                                                                        August 2001     August 2002 June 2003(1)
        Number of Loans classified as Standard                               32              19         23
        Number of non-performing loans                                       8               35         35
           out of which:
              Special Mention                                                4               14          6
              Substandard                                                    3                2          3
             Doubtful                                                        1                8          4
              Loss                                                           0               11         22
        Total Outstanding Loans (Euro)                                   5,180,323       5,784,271   4,748,217
        Provisions against loan losses (Euro) (2)                         481,428        2,266,855   2,817,670
        Provisions against loan losses (% of the outstanding loans)         9.3             39.2       59.3

       (1) Data are based on un-audited accounts.
       (2) The amounts include general provisions for standard loans for a percentage equal to 5%.




           Table 3a: Classification of the IDA portion of ICU's outstanding loan portfolio
                                              (as of May 31, 2003)
                                                                     Volume in Euro

Total outstanding portfolio (36)                                        2,939,781

Total performing loans (15)                                             1,012,569

Total non-performing loans (21)                                         1,927,212
 Out of which:
         Special Mention (4)                                             286,311
         Substandard (3)                                                 149,458
         Doubtful (2)                                                    148,904
         Loss (12)                                                      1,342,539

                         (1) Numbers of the loans are in brackets.




                           Table 4: ICU's loans by sector of economic activity
                      Manufacturing                                   78%
                      Construction                                    6%
                      Distribution                                    3%
                      Transport                                       2%
                      Other Sectors                                   11%
                      Total                                          100%




                                                       - 19 -

                          Table 5: ICU's Contribution to Employment Generation
                                                 August 2001        August 2002          August 2003
Jobs directly created (Cumulative) (1)               1,042              1,055                1,073
Actual numbers. Project numbers reported in the loan applications were regularly ascertained and updated by ICU
during its monitoring visits to the borrowers, as envisaged under ICU's Operational Manual, Form 6.B.




                                                        - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Key indicators of onlending performance (i.e., 64 loans approved and disbursed for a total  64 loans approved and disursed for a total
loan volumes, cumulative lending)              amount of about Euro 7.6 million             amount of about Euro 7.6 million
Cost recovery                                  Income < (local operating costs + loan loss  Income < (local operating costs + loan loss
                                               provisions)                                  provisions)
Job directly created                           1,073 jobs directly created                  1,073 jobs directly created
Exit strategy implemented                      Sale of the IDA portion of ICU's outstanding Sale of the IDA portion of ICU's outstanding
                                               loan portfolio                               loan portfolio


Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Lending performance and volumes                N/A                                          78.6% of the total funds disbursed under the
                                                                                            Grant transferred to the KCB
Number of persons trained                      Training provided to: 28 loan officers of    Training provided to: 28 loan officers of
                                               emerging local banks, 8 managers from the    emerging local banks, 8 managers from the
                                               private sector, all ICU's local staff        private sector, all ICU's local staff




1End of project




                                                                   - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                           Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million  US$ million
Credit Line                                                  7.50           7.10            72
ICU Operations and TA                                        2.75           2.75            28

Total Baseline Cost                                         10.25           9.85
                        Total Project Costs                 10.25           9.85
                  Total Financing Required                  10.25           9.85




Project Financing by Component: Appraisal Estimate (in US$ million)
 Component        IDA           EAR              EAR           Total      % of total
                  funding       funding          additional    Funding    cost
                                                 funding
 Sub-Loans        4.4           2.5              6.0           12.9       82
ICU               0.0           2.75             0.0           2.75       18
operations
and TA
 Total            4.4           5.25             6.0           15.65      100




Project Financing by Component: Actual/Latest Estimate (in US$ million)
 Component        IDA           EAR              EAR           Total      % of total
                  funding       funding          additional    Funding    cost
                                                 funding
 Sub-Loans        4.0           2.5              0.2           6.70       71
ICU               0.0           2.75             0.0           2.75       29
operations
and TA
 Total            4.0           5.25             0.2           9.45       100




                                                - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              February 2000             5    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER
                                             (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PRIVATE SECTOR
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (2); BANKING SPECIALIST
                                             (1);


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              April 2000                9    PROGRAM TEAM
                                             LEADER (1); FINANCIAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); PRIVATE
                                             SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (2);
                                             DIBUSBURSEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); LEGAL
                                             COUNCEL (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (2)


 Supervision
              May 2001                  1    BANKING SPECIALIST               S               S
                                             (1);
              October 2001              6    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              S               S
                                             (1); TASK MANAGER (1); FMS
                                             (1); PAS (1); BANKING
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              October 2001              2    BANKING SPECIALIST (1);          S               S
                                             LEGAL SPECIALIST (1)
              July 2002                 3    FINANCIAL SECTOR SPECI
                                             (1); PRIVATE SECTOR
                                             SPECIAL (1); PRIVATE
                                             SECTOR CONSULT (1)
              October 2002              2    FMS (1); PROCUREMENT             S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              November 2002             3    FINANCIAL SECTOR SPECI           U               U
                                             (1); PRIVATE SECTOR
                                             SPECIAL (1); PRIVATE
                                             SECTOR CONSULTANT (1)
              February 2003             2    FINANCIAL SECTOR SPECI           U               U
                                             (1); PRIVATE SECTOR



                                              - 24 -

                                                      CONSULTANT (1);
               April 2003                        2    FINANCIAL SECTOR
                                                      SPECIALIST (1); PRIVATE
                                                      SECTOR CONSULTANT (1)
               June 2003                         3    FINANCIAL SECTOR SPECI
                                                      (1); PRIVATE SECTOR
                                                      SPECIAL (1); PRIVATE
                                                      SECTOR CONSULTANT (1)
               July 2003                         3    FINANCIAL SECTOR SPECI            U    U
                                                      (1); PRIVATE SECTOR
                                                      SPECIAL (1); PRIVATE
                                                      SECTOR CONSULTANT (1)

 ICR
               December 2003                    2     FINANCIAL SECTOR
                                                      SPECI (1); PRIVATE
                                                      SECTOR CONSULTANT
                                                      (1);
               February 2004                    3     FINANCIAL SECTOR SPECI
                                                      (1); PRIVATE SECTOR
                                                      SPECIAL (1); PRIVATE
                                                      SECTOR CONSULTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                          Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                              74                      259,000*
  Supervision                                        60                       210,000
  ICR                                                 9                       31,000
  Total                                            143                        500,000
* It includes identification, preparation, appraisal, and negotiations.




                                                      - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

l Project Appraisal Document - Kosovo, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) Pilot
  SME Line of Credit - Report No: 21022-KOS
l Transitional Support Strategy, October 7, 1999
l Quality Enhancement Review, February 14, 2000
l Trust Fund Grant Agreement between the United Nations Interim Mission of Kosovo and the
  International Development Association, DATE
l Aide Memoires and Back-to-Office Reports
l Financial Management Reports
l Project Status Reports (Project File)
l Standards for Kosovo, UNMIK, December 2003
l Strategies for Kosovo's Mid-Term Economic Development, Prime Minister Office and Ministry of
  Economy and Finance, June 2003.




                                               - 28 -

- 29 -

