Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/v "'--/-
Report No. 5919-llJ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
SIR HYDROPOWER PROJECT
August 1, 1986
Projects Department
Europc, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This documept has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                  =    Turkish Lira (TL)
TL I                           =    100 Kurus (krs)
US$1                           =    TL 700
TL 1                               US$.001
Currency equivalents are those effective June 1986, unless otherwise indicated.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
kVA                                      =    kilovolt ampere
kVARh                                    =    reactive kilovolt-ampere-hour
kW                                       -    kilowatt
kWh                                      -    kilowatt hour
GWh (Gigawatt hour)                      =    1,000,000 kWh
UV                                            H High Voltage
kV (kilovolt)                            =    1,000 volts
MW (Megawatt)                            -    1,000 kW
MVA (Megavolt-ampere)                    -    1,000 kVA
MVAR (Megavolt-ampere reactive)          =    1,000 kVAR
One meter (m)                            =    3.28 feet
One kilometer (km)                       -    0.6214 miles
One kilogram (kg) (1,000 grams)          =    2.2 pounds
One ton (metric ton) (1,000 kg)          =    2,205 pounds
One kilocalorie (kcal) (1,000 calories) =    3.968 BTU
toe                                           tons of oil equivalent
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
C&B        - Coyne et Bellier (engineering consultants)
CEAS       - Cukurova Elektrik A.S. (Cukurova Electric Company)
DSI        - Devlet Su Isleri (State Hydraulic Works)
EIE        - Elektrik Isleri Etut Idaresi Genel Mudur,lugu (Electric Power
Resources Survey Administration)
ELTEM-TEK - Elektrik Tesisleri Mishen Dislik Hizmetteri ve Ticaret Anonim
Sirketi (Electrical Installation Engineering Services Co.)
EdF        - Electricite de France
ICB        - International Competitive Bidding
IDA        - International Development Association
KEPEZ A.S. - Kepez ve Antalya Havalisi Elektrik Santrallari (Kepez Electric Co.)
LCB        - Local Competitive Bidding
LRMC       - Long-Run Marginal Cost
MAFRA      - Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs
MENR       - Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources
MTA        - Mineral Research Institute
PEE        - Public Economic Establishment
PPAR       - Project Performance Audit Report
PPF        - Public Participation Fund
SEE        - State Economic Enterprise
SPO        - State Planning Organization
SPK        - Sermaye Piyasi Kurulu (Capital Markets Board)
TEK        - Turkiye Elektrik Kurumu (Turkish Electricity Authority)
TKI        - Turkiye Komur Isletmeleri Kurumu (Turkish Brown Coal Ent.)
TPAO       - Turkiye Petrollerei Anonim Ortakligi (Turkish Petroleum Corp.)
TTK        - Turkish Hard Coal Enterprise
VAT        - Value Added Tax
Fiscal Year - January 1 to December 31



FM OWVCIAL Uta  ONLY
TURKEY
STAFF APPBAISAL REPORT
SIR HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Table of Contents
Palle No.
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR AND  EHE POWER SUBSECTOR .... ...................    1
A. E NERBGY SECTOR                    ... *..................................    I
The Role of the Energy Sector in the Economy .................    1
The Resource Base        ............................................  1
Main Agencies ................................................    2
Supply and Demand ...........................................    2
Energy Policy .............................................          4
Bank Strategy ............                          5...........     5
B. POWRE  SUBSECTOR       5..........................................    5
National Power System Characteristics ........@S............ CoE     5
Performance of the Power Subsector and Government's Strategy .    7
Legal Changes Affecting Investment in Electric Power    .........    8
Electricity Pricing .....       .................    9
Electricity Planning       .........................................    9
Bank's Role in the Power Subsector               ...                10
Previous Lending to CEAS .........10
II.  THE PROJECT ENTITY:  Cukurova Electrik A.S. (CEAS) ..........12
Present Legal Status of CEAS and Scope of Activities ............   12
System Characteristics .......... ...............  12
CEAS Investment Program for 1986-1994               ...                15
Organization and Manpower ......................................   16
III.  TEE PROJECT 18...........   ...... 0* ..00..00.0000 ....00 *000    18
Objectives and Rationale for Bank Financing .....................   18
Project Description  .....................................   18
Project Origin ..........................................*..***    19
Design Modification       ...........*.. .....    19
Technical Evaluation ..................................o......o   20
This report was prepared by L. Meek Foote (Financial Analyst/Mission Leader),
K. Sheorey (Power Engineer) and J. Chassard-Manibog (Energy
EconouistlConsultant). followirig    appraisal mission in June 1985.
ThI.documut hina reuwictd dutri wmommd amybe uud by rclpiuls ulpin thepefonnac 
of thir ocial duuu 1 eonteal moy ot ederwi. be d001d wihu WoM Duk authedol.



- {i -
TAKLE OF CONTENTS (CONT 'D)
Page No.
Status of Project Preparation ....... 6*....66.................. *6***..*   21
Cost Estimates ...............         ...................................    21
Project Financing Plai  *6 *****..........................................   24
Retroactive Financing ........           ...................................    24
Procurement .....................................................   25
Disburseuent and Special Account ................................   28
Project Implementation ..........................................   28
Implementation Schedule and Project Completion Date .............   29
Land Acquisition and Resettlement         ................................   30
Nonitoring and Evaluation .......                ...................     .   31
Inspection of the Dam During Operation . 0.........................   31
Environmental Impact of the Project . 666 66666****** ...........   32
Project Risks ...............................           . . .          .     32
IV.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS .......................                                     33
Recent Performance  ...............................                   ....   33
Capital Structure .........          ......................................    33
Tariffs ..................................................                    34
Accounting Policies, Asset Valuation, and Audit ......... 9........           35
Taxes ...........................................................    36
Financial Forecasts 666666666666 **..** 6666666........6...   36
Potential Financial Implications of Changes in Legal Status of
CEAS .........................                                             37
Financial Covenants ..............          ...............................    38
V.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION .................    ..*..*.  666666666.66   39
Least Cost Analysis .............................. ..............    39
Return on Investment Program ....................................   39
VI.  AGRE32EETS REMACED AND RECOMMENDATIONS 6666 66 6666666  .............   41



- iii-
1.1  National Energy Balance (1978-1984)
1.2  Balance of Enerpr and Capaciti*s (1984-1995)
2.1  Suuiary of Laws Affecting CEAS
2.2  Shareholders of CEAS (December 1985)
2.3 Fuel Utilization of Mersin Thermal Plant (1974-1985)
2.4  Total Generation, Losses and Sales of CEAS (1975-1985)
2.5  CEAS Sales by Customer Group, 1978 and 1985
2.6  Forecast Generation and Sales of CEAS (1986-1994)
2.7 Installed Capacity and Maximum Demand of CEAS (1983-1994)
2.8  Organization Chart
3.1 Technical Characteristics of the Dam and Powerhouse
3.2 List of Transmdssion Lines and Substations
3.3  Definition of Technical Assistance Components
3.4  Project Cost Tables
3.5  Disbursement Schedule
3.6 Implementation Schedule
3.7  Project Monitoring Guidelines
4.1  Average Electricity Tariffs, 1982-1986
4.2  Summary of CEAS Tariff Scbedule, 1982-1986
4.3  CEAS Submission in Support of Tariff Increase (1/1/85)
4.4  Historical and Forecast Income Statements of CEAS, 1981-1994
4.5  Historical and Forecast Balance Sheets of CEAS, 1981-1994
4.6  Hitorical and Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds of CEAS,
1981-1994
4.7 Financial Ratios
4.8  Assumptions Used in Financial Forecasts
4.9  Supply Tariff of TEK's Generation and Transmission Enterprise
5.1   Comparative Generation Costs
5.2  Rate of Return
6.1  Documents in Project File
NAP
IBRD 19443 & 19444



TuRKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SIR KYDROPOIIER POEC
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR AND THE POWE SUBSECTOR
A. THE ENERGY SECTOR
The Role of the Enerwy Sector in the Economy
1.01    rn 1977, four yers after the first of the major oil price Increases.
Turkey's oil iport bill was equivalent to 84% of its mercbhadise eport
earning. By 1980, the situatio  was even more precarious: oil imports stood
at 124 of total merchandise ezport earnings. Based on remedil actions iu
line with thi Go nt's structural adjustmnt progrm the situatio  had. by
1984, impoved and the above ratio bad delined to 511. The improvement was a
result of both strong perfor_ance of merchandise exports as well as a policy
of bolding the growth in imports of crude oil and oil products to a more
moderate level (oil imports grew by an average anual rate of 3.61 between
1981 and 1984). Nowever, despite this improve ent the need to move away from
an excessive reliance on oil imports remains crucial to Turkey's medium-term
development strategy, as the latter is dependent on the economy'a ability to
mobilize foreign echange.
1.0    High priority was assigned to the energy sector by governm nt during
the 1980-83 period of structural adjustment. Energy policy was geared to
increasIng the domestic supply of energy, primarily through inezeased capital
investment to about 351 of total public investment compared to about 201
during the 1970s. In parallel, greater attention was given by government to
energy pricing policy as a means of restraining demand and moblizing
resources. In particular Governmnt has ensured that petroleum products
reflect economic costs as indicated by world prices, and electricity tariffs
have increased in real terms over the period (para. 1.29). Although lignite
prices declined slightly in real terms between 1981484, they have gradually
increased in real ters since 1984.
The Resource Base
1.03    Turkey has substantial untapped lignite and hydropower resources, as
well as more limited, but still important, oil, gas and coal resources and
geothermal potential. !zdkopwer with potential economic viability is
estimated at about 29,500 MW under average hydrologiL31 conditions and
corresponds to an annual production of about 100,000 GVh. Only 151 has been
developed so far, but this is projected to rise to about 301 by 1990. Proven
recoverable reserves of oil are about 16 million tons. However. potential
reserves that my becoam  econoically recoverable using enhanced oil recovery



- 2 -
techniques currently being tested could be as high as 30 million tons. Oil
production has been declining over the last decade, as few discoveries have
been made in recent years; in 1984 production was about 2.2 million tons.
Proven recoverable &sE reserves are about 400 billion standard cubic feet.
Hovever, beginning 1987, domestic gas is ezpected to be supplemented by large
scale imports of natural gas from the USSR. Total known reserves of hard coal
are estimated at about 1 billion tons, all located in the north of Turkey
(Zonguldak). Coal production has been declining as operations move to deeper,
less accessible seams; in 1984 production was about 3.5 million tons,
representing 2.2 million tons of oil equivalent (toe). Proven and probable
lignite reserves are about 8 billion tons, but about half of this is of
extremely low quality (950-1,000 kcal/kg). Lignite production in 1984 was
about 25 million tons, equivalent to about 6.9 million toe. There is
potential for geothermal development, for both space heating and electricity
generation.
Main Agencies
1.04     The energy sector in Turkey is characterized by the dominance of
government-owned enterprises and agencies. Under the Ministry of Energy and
Natural Resources (MENR), the Turkish Lignite Enterprise (TKI), the Turkish
Hard Coal Enterprise (TTK), and the Mineral Research Institute (MTM) have
respcnsibility, respectively, for the extraction of lignite, hard coal and
radioactive minerals, while identification, design and construction of
hydropower projects is entrusted to the State Hydraulics Authority (DSI). The
Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK) is responsible for the generation,
transmission and, since November 1982, the distribution of almost all the
electricity sold in Turkey. TEK in also responsible for the implementation of
the Government's program for rural electrification and for construction of
thermal generation projects and transmission facilities.
1.05     Private sector participation in the supply of electricity was until
1983, confined by law to two semiprivate utilities (CEAS and KEPEZ) and
industrial companies which generated power for their own use, often in
conjunction with the production of steam for process heat.^' However,
recent shifts in government energy policy now give greater encouragement to
private sector participation in the development and production of energy
(para. 1.27).
Supply and Demand
1.06     Total gross energy consumption was about 40.5 million toe in 1984, of
which commercial energy consumption amounted to about 32 million toe.
Petroleum made up the most significant share of primary commercial energy
(571) with the balance made up of lignite (201), hydropower (11), coal (111).
asphaltite, and imported electricity (1S). About 231 of final commercial
1/ CEAS, which will implement the proposed Project, is described in detail in
Chapter 1I.



- 3 -
energy consumption was in the form of electricity. Noncommercial energy
production (primarily fuelvood, but also other biomass) was an important
energy source, accounting for 29Z of total energy consumption. Imported
energy (petroleum, hard coal and electricity) represents about 461 of total
energy supply. Annex 1.1 presents energy balances for the 1978-1984 period.
1.07    The most notable change in the pattern of energy consumption over the
past two decades has been the decrease in the relative share of bard coal in
total energy. This was accompanied by a rapid growth in consumption of
petroleum until the mid-1970s, and a rapid rise in the share of lignite
(primarily for thermal power production) and hydroelectric power consumption
starting in the second half of the 1970s. During this period, hard coal
consumption stayed relatively constant in absolute terms, while traditional
biomass energy sources increased slightly in absolute terms, but decreased
steadily as a percentage of total energy consumed.
1.08    The most important factors in the growth of energy demand will be the
growth rate of the economy as a whole, the growth rate of the energy-intensive
industrial sector of the economy, and the extent to which Government
implements an energy conservation and demand management program. Bank
estimates indicate that the growth rate of the economy would average about
5.61 per annum during the 1980. and that the industrial sector would gror
slightly faster at about 7S. Under these projections and in the absence of a
vigorous demand management program, electricity demand is expected to grow by
over 2001 between 1980 and 1990 to about 60,000 GWh; lignite demand for
thermal power plants would grow by Almost tenfold to about 50 million tons;
and petroleu. products demand would grow by 1101 to 30 million tons of oil
equivalent. In total this would represent approximately 58 million toe. an
increase of over 61 per annum from 1984 (40.5 million toe). However supply
constraints8 especially in the lignite sector and in the power sector (para.
1.19), are likely to result in demand not being met, at least to 1990.
1.09    There is, however. considerable scope for conservation of energy,
particularly in the industrial sector which currently accounts for 401 of
total energy consumption and this is expected to rise to 45% by 1990. The
industrial sector also consumes 641 of total electricity supplied.
Furthermore eight industries-' account for 401 of total industrial energy
consumption, from which it has been estimated that almost 1 million toe could
be saved through investment in conservation. The total estimated potential
energy savings in the industrial sector, including a large number of
energy-inefficient small industries, is about 2.4 million toe. There is
therefore an urgent requirement for an energy conservation program in Turkey.
1.10    The Government is in the process of developing a program for the
conservation of energy by encouraging efficient use in existing and new
industrial enterprises. Energy efficiency programs and legislation have been
1/ Iron and steel, cement, fertilizer, pulp and paper, glass, brick,
aluminum, copper.



- 4 -
evaluated by both MENR and the State Plaiming Organization (SPO), and
legislation has already been passed which allows for tax credits for various
types of investments in energy efficiency improvements. The Government has
initiated programs to assist industrial firm to learn how to improve their
energy efficiency in existing operations. The Bank included technical
assistance for energy audits in selected manufacturing facilities as part of
the assistance to the Government under Loan 1916-TU. These audits are to be
followed by conservation activities.  The findings of the energy audit of the
Anbarli electric power plant have been used as the basis for preparing a
subcomponent of the Power System Operations Assistance Project (Loan 2602-TU).
TEK has also hired consultants to assist in the development of an energy
conservation and load management program (Loan 2322-TU).
Energy Policy
1.11    To meet its energy requirements, Turkey launched a massive program in
the late 1970s to increase the domestic production of electricity and
lignite. This program tended to stretch the implementation capabilities of
the state energy agencies, and spread resources available too thinly over too
many projects, with resulting long delays in completion schedules. This has,
in turn, resulted in an energy deficit which is likely to remain a feature of
the Turkish economy through the 1980s (para. 1.08). NENM and TEK are
currently in the process of improving their energy planning capabilities
(para. 1.30). The present Five-Year Development Plnaw contains the
following energy sector objectives:
-    priority is to be given to domestic sources of energy, especially.
hydropower and lignite, provided that they are economically justified;
-    imported energy including, but not limited to oil, will be considered;
-    renewable and nonconventional resources such as geothermal, solar and
biogas are to be supported; and
-    private sector financing, both local and foreign, will be sought for
participation in energy development.
1.12    One feature of government policy which represents a departure from
previous energy policy concerns the expanded role of the private sector in the
development and production of energy. Goverment policy is now to encourage
private sector participation in the energy sector (para. 1.27). It is now
possible for the private sector to participate in electricity generation, and
private utilities (REPEZ and CEAS) have plans to increase their capacities
(e.g., proposed Project for CEAS). In addition, SPO is currently pursuing
negotiations with private consortia who would assemble financing, and
construct and operate hydropower and thermal plants based upon imported fuels.
1/ V. Bes Tillik Kalkinma Plani 1985-1989, State Planning Organization, June
1984



-5-
Bank StrategY
1.13    The Bank has prepared and discussed with Government an Energy
Assessment Study as well as subsector studies on electricity and lignite. As
an ongoing part of our policy dialogue the Bank prepared an energy sector
strategy paper On actions required in the energy sector. In discussions of
this paper agreement was reached with the Government and related energy
institutions on the content, analysis and scope of the issues facing the
energy sector.
1.14    The strategy for Bank lending and operational work in the energy
sector is to focus on selected key issues in the medium-term in order that
projects way be brought on stream as rapidly as possible and the efficiency of
existing energy-producing facilities be maximized. Priority should be
accorded to projects aimed at reducing the energy deficit as soon as
possible. Projects with relatively short gestation periods such as
improvement of efficiency within existing facilities, industrial conservation,
(reduction of energy leakages). and economic utilization of energy resources
which can be brought on stream rapidly, should have priority.
1.15    In conjunction with the strategy to address the key medium-term
issues the Bank is also emphasizing the strengthening of various energy
institutions through technical assistance in training, manpower development,
technical, economic and financial planning and project management. The policy
discussions between Government and the Bank will be continued on a regular and
sustained basis and should provide a continuing policy framework within which
both project lending and the development of a robust project pipeline can
proceed.
B. THE POWER SUBSECTOR
National Power SYstem Characteristics
1.16    The installed power capacity in Turkey (as of 1985) is about 8,500 MW
of which about 4,500 MW (53X) is thermal and the balance hydro. TEK plants
make up about 7,400 MW of this total. The share of hydropower has increased
over the past ten years from 33Z in 1972 to about 471 in 1985. On che thermal
side lignite has made an increasing contribution to the production of
electricity. Total net generation in 1985 was about 27,500 GWh, of which TEK
accounted for almost 90S, and this was supplemented by about 3,000 GWh of
imported electricity from Bulgaria and the USSR. The system is characterized
by a high level of losses which, in total (technical losses plus unaccounted
for energy), amount to about 201.1'
1/ This compares with losses of about 101 in a well designed and operated
transmission and distribution network.



- 6 -
1.17    Trends in National Electricity Demand.  Growth in demand bas averaged
about 9S per annum over the period 1965-1985. Between 1970 and 1983 the
percentage of population with public electricity supply rose from 511 to 781.
Per capita annual consumption of electricity in currently about 550 kWh. The
current medium- and long-term forecasts, prepared in connection with TEl's
long-term generation plan (1987-2005) are based upon the relationship between
electricity consumption and industrial output. They show total demand growing
at about 101 per annum to 1990. Beyond 1990. TEK projects a growth in demand
of about 81 per annum. This implies a continuation of the high (1.6-1.8)
elasticities with respect to GDP and sectoral (primarily industrial) growth
rates. These are higher than in many other industrializing countries (e.g.,
Korea, Hungary, Singapore) which have been able to reduce electricity demand
significantly by implementing a program of demand management. Given the
difficulty Turkey has faced in expanding electricity supply it is critical
that efforts be made to bring about lower demand elasticities. This may be
achieved in part by the series of real electricity price increases implemented
since early-1984. A program of demand management implemented in parallel with
a program to improve efficiency and plant availability within the electricity
subsector could produce significant savings in investment over the medium to
long term.
1.18    Given the constraints in bringing additional supply facilities on
stream, the national forecast of electricity sales has been derived from the
Bank's projections of available generation. Under this forecast, TEK's sales
would increase at an annual average rate of about 101 to reach about 45,000
GWh by 1990 (Annex 1.2).
1.19    Generation. National installed capacity is expected to grow from
about 8,500 MW in 1985 to almost 14,000 NW by 1990, with the share of
hydropower increasing to about 501. Assuming average water flows, the share
of hydropower in total generation is expected to be about 421 over the
period. This estimate is, however, dependent on the extent to which lignite
supply constrains the availability of thermal generation. Any improvement in
the lignite mines' abilities to supply lignite would have a major impact upon
increasing generation from the thermal plants.
1.20    All new thermal power plants presently identified, either under
construction or proposed in the investment program, would use lignite for
power generation, with the exception of a coal-fired plant to replace an old
unit at Catalagzi, a small pilot (18 M1) geothermal plant, and a new 600-MS
combined cycle plant located in Thrace to utilize domestic gas (amitabat) and
imported gas (USSR). Furthermore, the State Planning Organization (SPO) and
MENR are carrying out discussions with several private international consortia
which have made bids to construct and operate thermal stations based on
imported coal.
1.21    Transmission.  The salient feature of the Turkish transmission system
is that the largest load centers are located at considerable distances from
the existing and/or committed major power plants, most of which are to be
located in the far east or south west of the country. For technical reasons
of system stability and reliability, there is a need for a more geographically



- 7 -
balanced system, especially in European Turkey (Thrace) where the system is
particularly vulnerable. TEK's bulk transport system consists of a 380-kV
National Grid System that feeds into 154-kV grids. These 154-kV grids supply
major power users and feed into 66-kV subtransmission grids. In 1984 there
was a total of 22,852 km of transmission and subtransmission lines. TEK's
substation plant in the transmission grids consisted of 492 transformer
substations, having an aggregated capacity of 15,230 MVA.
1.22    Distribution and Village Electrification.  Primary distribution
voltages are 35kV, 15kV, 6kV and 3kV. In 1982 TEK took over responsibility
for urban distribution from the municipalities. In the 18 regional
distribution enterprises under TEK, the distribution systems consisted in 1984
of: 103,490 km of distribution lines at 34.5 kV or below and 20,708
distribution substations with an aggregated capacity of 12,219 MVA. During
the 1970s there had been a sharp decline in the share of investment in urban
distribution, from 14X of total subsector investment in 1975, to 6S in 1979
despite an urban population growth rate of almost twice the national average.
Problems of underinvestment were compounded by the fact that many
municipalities practiced cross-subsidization of services, utilizing revenues
from urban electricity sales to finance other services. This resulted in a
deterioration in the physical condition of the urban networks and high
losses. The level of technical losses in distribution is between 12Z and 15.,
which is high by modern standards. Recent estimates by TEK place losses at
1,500 GWh/year, of which pilferage and illegal connections account for about
500 GWh and technical losses the balance. Almost 1,000 GWh of total losses
occur in the three largest urban areas, Istanbul, Ankara and Izuir.
Rehabilitating the urban networks should be accorded greater priority than
hitherto, since it would provide a cost-effective and rapid way to increase
the capacity of the system. TEK hired consultants in 1983 (EdF, France) to
assist in identifying losses and to prepare an investment program for the
urban networks. The consultants have prepared the first comprehensive
investment masterplan (Izmir).
1.23     The village electrification program forms part of the Government's
social policy of providing basic services to rural areas, especially to those
provinces designated as least developed and most impoverished. As such,
government objectives are geared to regional development, equity
considerations and poverty alleviation rather than either financial cost
recovery or economic efficiency. By the end of 1984, about 70% of the
villages had been connected to the national system, and the target is to
electrify the balance by the end o' 1990.
Performance of Power Subsector and Government's Strategy
1.24     The Turkish power subsector has been confronted with problems of
major proportions. Electricity supply had been insufficient to meet demand,
resulting in high costs to the economy, as imports increased and supply
interruptions became more frequent. The shortfalls in supply are attributed
maiuly to institutional problems, especially the shortage of qualified staff
in the public sector agencies responsible for planuing and implementing the
development of the electricity subsector, and shortages of local funding



- 8 -
resources. This has resulted in project delays, consequent Substantial cost
*ecalations, chronic power shortages, frequent and protracted power plant
breakdowms due to inadequate maintenance, and high system losses. The
shortages of qualified staff in TEK has resulted In resources, spread too
thinly over too many projects in the investment prograr.
1.25    Mseting electricity demend in Turkey will require a major coordinated
effort on behalf of the agencies in the subsector since it will require that
the country bring on strea three times more capacity in the 1980. than in the
1970s and sutain that momentum throughout most of the 1990s.
1.26    The Government is, however. coinitted to a progrm to deal with the
issues faced by the power subsector and plans to focus particularly on the
medium-term issues of expanding output, maximizing efficincy and, in line
with the Government's structural adjustment progrm, curtailing the country's
oil import bill. MMNI has instructed all the individual emrgy institutions
to address the following priority issues:
(a) omanaeritl and institutional impro emts, In particular the
strengthening of planning, project selection and project    _ manamt
capabilities through increaed training and tecbnical aistance;
(b) the coa letion of ongoing Priority orolects In the electricity
subsector and In lignite mines to supply key thermal plants;
(c)  the u4aradina of existing faciliti s with special reference to
improving operational efficiency, retrofitting of plant and provision
of adequate spare parts;
(d) evaluation and imDlmentation of a broader range of alternatlve
energy supplies including natural gas and imported coal;
Ce) energy conservation, including the identification of investments and
pricing policies to increase the effLciency with which energy is both
produced and consumed; and
(f) an increased role for the Drivate sector, particularly in the
construction and operation of power plants and operation of lignite
mines.
Legal Changes Affecting Investment in Electric Power
1.27    The objectives of encouraging a greater role for the private sector
are to ease the manpower and staffing problems in the public sector. improve
project        e t, and mobilize private financing. A law issued in December,
1984 (Law 3096) allows utilities and other compnies, designated as regional
utilities, to construct and operate generating facilities and to have full
responsibility for electricity distribution and sales within a designated
service area. The full set of regulations explaining bow the principles set
out in this law would be implemented is under preparation.1'



-9-
Electricity Pricing
1.28    Bulk electricity tariff levels are close to the long-run marginal
costs of bulk supply (LRMC) but do not yet fully reflect the structure of
LRMJ. TEK has hired consultants (EdF, France) to assist them in a study of
the long-run marginal cost of supplying electricity at both the bulk and
retail levels. The counultant's report was submitted to TEK and the Bank in
July, 1985. It was agreed under Loan 2322-TU (1983) that TEK will review the
recommendations of this report and implement them according to an agreement to
be reached between TEK and the Bank.
1.29    In line with government policy to price energy products closer to
their respective economic costs, bulk rates were increased by an average of
about 13S in real terms from 1982 to 1984. Further increases since the
beginning of 1985 (on January 1. March 1, April 1, December 1 of 1985, and
February 1 of 1986, respectively) have resulted in a real adjustment of bulk
rates of about 50S. By April 1986 the average bulk supply tariff was
estimated at about 90S of the LBHC of electricity supply at high voltage
(paras. 4.07-4.08). Despite significant increases over the past two years,
retail tariffs are not yet as close to the long-run marginal cost of supply at
low voltage (701 on the average).
Electricity Planning
1.30    TEK is, and has been since its creation, overwhelmeu by the immediate
problems of coping with increasing demand, problems that have preoccupied
senior managemt to the detriment of forward-looking strategies.  As a
consequence little effort has, in the past, been made to upgrade TEK's
planning skills. aowever, agreement bas been reached on a comprehensive
sstem planning training program for MENR and TEK. Training is being given in
sstem plasning using the 96<P1' model and in demand forecasting using the
'MED" model. Both models have been developed by the International Atomic
Energy Agency (ARM) and the training program is provided under their
auspices. Improved planning would ensure that significant opportunities to
maximie supply over the medium term are realized (e.g., reduction in system
losses, coordination of the investment program, demand mnageupnt,
rehabilitation of plant currently derated, etc.) as well as identifying a
1/ Two regulations, which clarify to some extent certain aspects of Law 3096,
were issued on September 4, 1985. The first one pertains to companies
other than TEK and DSI which are interested irs constructing and operating
power plants in Turkey, to the exclusion of transmission and
distribution. The second regulation defines the service areas within
which co_mpnies could be entrusted with generation, transmission,
distribution and sale of electricity.
2/ WASP - Wien Automatic System Planaing Modei.
3/  MMID - Model for Analysis of Energy Lvzvmd.



- 10 -
long-term least-cost expansion program for the subsector. TEK is to prepare a
report by end-1986 of the proposed long-term generation plan.
1.31    One area of system planning where technical and cost data could be
significantly improved is in the hydropower subsector. System planning is
hampered by the lack of a systematic inventory of hydroelectric resources and
a ranking of these resources based upon uniform technical criteria and
comparable economic and cost criteria. The Kayraktepe Hydropower Project
(Loan 2655-TU) provides technical assistance to prepare this inventory of
hydropower resources on the basis of a uniform methodology. Once completed.
the hydro inventory and ranking study will allow the optimal design and
development, scheduling and construction of hydropower plants with consequent
major savings in investment. The results of the study will also provide
additional information to a subsequent round of expansion planning exercises.
1.32    To ensure the rational design of the medium-term investment program,
it has been agreed under the Fourth TEK Transmission Project (Loan 2586-TU)
that Bank and Government would undertake, by October 31 of each year, a joint
review of the electric power investment program and related financing plans,
with a view to identifying project priorities, realistic completion dates and
adequacy of electric power investment levels and finance.
Bank's Role in the Power Subsector
1.33    The proposed Project would be the twentieth Bank operation in the
power subsector in Turkey. The Bank has made fifteen loans and a technical
assistance grant, and IDA has granted three credits. These comprise
loans/credits for hydroelectric projects; thermal power stations
(oil- and lignite-fired); transmission and distribution networks; and
assistance in improving TEK's system operations.  The technical assistance
grant helped reorganize Turkey's power subsector.
Previous Lending to CEAS
1.34    CEAS has not received any Bank financial assistance since 1971, given
the restrictions against CEAS undertaking new investments in power generation.
Previously the Bank/IDA made four credits/loans to the Government of Turkey
which were onlent to CEAS, financing almost all of the generating facilities
presently operate%d by CEAS: (1) in 1963, Credit 34-TU of US$1.7 million for a
third 18-MW unit at Seyhan Hydroelectric Power Plant; (2) in 1964, Credit
59-TU of US$24.0 million for the construction of the Mersin Steam Power
Station and the Kadincik I ;-Aroelectric Power plant; (3) in 1969, Loan 623-TU
of US$11.5 million for the construction of the Kadincik II Hydroelectric Power
Plant; and (4) in 1971, Loan 775-TU of US$17.0 million for transmission lines
and cost overruns related to the Kadincik II power plant.
1.35    A final Construction Report, issued in May 1972 on the Second
Cukurova Power Project (Credit 59-TU), reported that the project had been
executed with no major delay or cost overrun. A Project Completion Report for
the Third and Fourth Cukurova Power Projects (Loans 623-TU and 775-TU) was
issued in August 1975 and indicated that some difficulties due to unexpected



- 11 -
conditions had been encountered and caused some delay at the construction
stage. Tlis delay, coupled with exchange rate fluctuations, had resulted in a
301 cost owerru. Nowever. the major conclusion of the report vas that the
capability of the project _mangment team and CEAS' efficient organization had
been crucial to the success of the projects and to obtaining full project
benefits.



- 12 -
II. THE PROJECT ENTITY: Cukurova Electrik A.S. (CEAS)
Present Legal Status of CEAS and Scope of Activities
2.01    CEAS, a limited liability company which is subject to the provisions
of the Turkish Commercial Code, was granted a concession in 1953 for the
supply of electricity in the Cukurova Region in Southern Turkey, which
includes the fertile and highly developed Cilician plain. Initially formed to
operate the power portion of the multipurpose Seyhan Project, which was
completed in 1956 with the help of Bank Loan 63-TU, CEAS presently operates
five generating plants. In 1983 CEAS received the approval of SPO and MENR to
build the Sir Hydropower Project and the Duzkesme-Berke Hydropower Project
downstream. Under its present charter, all fixed assets operated by CEAS
would revert free to the Government at the end of the concession period which
runs to 2002.
2.02    CEAS has applied to become a "regional utility," as provided for
under Law 3096 of 1984 (para. 1.27). If the Government grants regional
utility status to CEAS, new arrangements would be made between CEAS and the
Government which would replace the existing concession agreement. CEAS would
become a fully integrated regional utility, possibly taking over all
generation, transmission and distribution facilities within the Cukurova
Region. This likely change and its related financial implications are
discussed in Chapter IV (para. 4.17). The laws currently applicable to CEAS
are sumarized in Annex 2.1. The Government has confirmed to the Bank that
subject to a satisfactory outcome to the ongoing negotiations between MENR and
CEAS, it is expected that CEAS will become a regional utility as provided for
under Law 3096.
2.03    CEAS presently has an authorized (registered) share capital of TL 15
billion of which TL 3.6 billion is paid in. While the Government, through
TEK, is the largest single shareholder, TEK's shares account for only one
quarter of the total capital. Individual investors, trade associations, banks
and insurance companies, and other private firms own the majority of the
stock. Shareholders are listed in Annex 2 =
System Characteristics
2.04    Existing Power Facilities.  CEAS' present installed capacity is 298
MW, of which 192 MW (64X) is hydro. The generating facilities consist of:
(i) the 60-MS Seyhan hydroelectric power plant; (ii) the 70-MS Kadincik I
hydroelectric plant; (iii) the 56-MW Kadincik II hydroelectric plant; and (iv)
a 106-MS oil-fired steam plant at Mersin. In addition, CEAS operates a 6-MW
hydropower station at Yuregir for which it pays an annual rental fee to DSI.
Operation of these facilities has been constrained by various difficulties,
ranging from problems with the runner of a turbine at Kadincik II to
insufficient capacity to utilize completely the water released for irrigation
at Seyban, and to high fuel cost at the Mersin thermal plant (details are
given in Annex 2.3 on Mersin fuel consumption and decreasing efficiency).
Under the proposed Project, technical assistance would be provided to carry



- 13 -
out consultants' studies with a view to reconeuding remedial actions (para.
3.07 and Annex 3.3).
2.05    There are several power generating facilities in the Cukurova region,
presently under construction or recently completed, which are neither owned
nor operated by CEAS (Table 2.1). In the event that CEAS becomes a regional
utility, consideration will have to be given as to whether any of these
facilities would be transferred to CEAS. In connection with the appraisal of
the Kayraktepe Hydropower Project, the Government has already indicated to the
Bank that this particular plant would be constructed by DSI and operated by
TE.
Table 2.1
GeneratinR Plants in the Cukurova Region Not Controlled by CEAS
Coummissioning
Plant           MW        GWh           Date               Comments
a) Ceyhan-Aslantas      138       569            1984           Downstream of
HPP                                                        Sir, operated
by TEK
b) Catalan EPP          156       508             1988          Under construc-
tion by DSI,
north of Seyhan
Reservoir
c) Gezende IPP          150       528             1989          Under construc-
tion by DSI on
GiSku River
d) Kayraktepe HPP       420        991            1993          Construction by
DSI on Gkcsu
River to start
1986
2.06    In 1985 total net generation by CEAS amounted to 1,394 GWh compared
to a regional electricity consumption of 2,800 GWh (representing about 101 of
the national electricity consumption) and a peak demand of 502 NW. Because of
the restrictions placed on its ability to construct new generating facilities,
CEAS has had to resort increasingly to purchases of electricity from TEK to
try to meet demand in its concesaioL area. Since 1978 CEAS has been a net
purchaser of electricity and in 195, TEK's supply accounted for 571 of the
energy supplied to the regional network (Annex 2.4 presents historical
developments of electricity generation and consumption in the Cukurova region).
2.07     Peak load and electricity consumption in CEAS' concession area
increased at an average rate of 9.11 over the past ten years, mainly as a



- 14 -
result of the region's rapid economic growth. However, actual consumption has
been consistently lower than potential effective demand, estimated to be about
10 higher. Power shortages at the regional level are a reflection of the
pervasive energy deficit observed at the national level as TEX has been unable
to supply all the electricity needed by CEAS to complement its own generation
(pars. 2.06).
2.08     Industrial customers, numbering in total about 200, account for over
half of the regional electricity consumption (nearly 601 in 1985). The
largest industrial customer in the region is the Iron and Steel Works at
Iskenderun (Isdemir), accounting for over 161 of regional industrial
consumption. This plant has its own generation capability, but no longer has
surplus energy to sell to CEAS. Other major industrial consumers include
textile, cement, and food processing plants (Annex 2.5). The remining share
of available bulk supply is then sold by CEAS to TEK's Toroslar Distribution
Enterprise for retail distribution. On TEK's behalf, CEAS prepares bills for
electricity sales to about 200 villages and municipalities, but TEK itself
collects from these retail customers. Despite the region's rapid industrial
development and accompanying urbanization, about half of the population is
still classified as rural, and of these, almost 902 are connected to the
electricity grid as compared with only 501 in 1975. Overall for the region,
almost 951 of the population has access to electricity, which is high compared
to some other regions in Turkey.
2.09     Demand Forecast.  CEAS' planning department prepared a 10-year
forecast of electricity demand in the Cukurova region and carried out an
extensive sensitivity analysis. The forecast was determined by breaking down
sales into major consumer categories and by taking into account projected
growth in the national GNP and in the regional population. The methodology
and forecasts were reviewed in detail by the mission and found to be
satisfactory. According to the forecast, electricity demand would grow at an
average rate of 101 per annum over the 1986-1994 period, with industry's share
in the total remaining constant at about 601. Net sales to the Cukurova
region would reach 6,312 GWh by 1994 (as compared to 2,800 GWh in 1985) and
maximum demand 1,102 NW.
2.10     Planned Generation and Supply. The proposed Sir hydropower plant, to
be conmissioned in 1991, would be CEAS' only new generating capacity over the
1986-1994 period, in addition to the possible rehabilitation of the Mersin
plant and its conversion to combined cycle (paras. 2.04 and 3.07 and Annex
3.3).V  Generation from Sir (projected at 725 GWh per annum without
irrigation development at the Meazelet dam upstream) would partially meet the
increase in electricity demand and the deficit would have to be met by
additional transfers from TEK through the national grid. By 1990, purchases
from TER are expected to represent 731 of the energy supplied to the regional
1/ Given the uncertainty regarding the results of the feasibility study for
such conversion, the associated capacity addition (estimated at about 160
NW) was not taken into account to derive CEAS' planned generation.



- 15 -
network, this share decreasing slightly afterwards once Sir is coimissioned.
CEAS' ten-year forecast balance of energy and capacity for the Cukurova region
has been communicated to MENR and TEK for use in the preparation of the
national forecast balance of energy and capacity. However, there is no formal
contract between TEK and CEAS concerning their annual exchanges of
electricity. Instead, MENR collects information from both utilities on the
expected available supply and then issues instruction to CEAS and TEK on the
amount of electricity which in principle should be exchanged between them
during the year. However, in the event of power shortages at the national
level, CEAS remains subject to load-shedding measures to the same extcet as
other regions in Turkey. Forecasts of electricity generation by CEAS and of
regional electricity sales are given in Annex 2.6 and the projected installed
capacity and maximum demand are presented in Annex 2.7.
2.11    Transmission and Distribution.  Primarily a wholesaler of power, CEAS
operates the regional network down to the 15-kV voltage, plus some of the 6-kV
lines in the region. Altogether CEAS owns and operates about 2,200 km of
subtransmission lines at 154kV, 66kV, 30kV, 15kV and 6kV. The operation of
the CEAS power system is controlled from a telephone-operated dispatch center
at Seyban. However, there is no proper coordination with TEK regarding
optimization of the generation scheduling and the plant outages. Under the
proposed Project, technical assistance would be provided to improve CEAS' load
dispatch operations [para. 3.07 (b)]. Subtransmission losses on CEAS' network
are reasonable, amounting to about 4S of the electricity supplied.-?
2.12    The 380-kV substations and lines within the Cukurova region are part
of the national power grid owned and operated by TEK. CEAS interconnects with
this 380-kV grid at TEK's 380/154-kV Erzin substation. Two additional
interconnection points at 154-kV exist at the Toroslar and Osmaniye
substations. TEK will construct an additional 380/154-kV substation at Adana,
which is being financed under the Fourth TEK Transmission Project (Loan
2586-TU). The distribution system within the CEAS concession area is owned and
operated by TEK, through the Toroslar Distribution Enterprise, which is one of
eighteen regional distribution enterprises formed in 1982 when the
responsibility for retail sales was transferred from the municipalities to TEK.
CEAS Investment Program for 1986-1994
2.13    Generation.  In addiifun to the Sir Hydropower Plant, to be financed
by the proposed loan (Chapter III), construction is expected to begin on
another generating scheme: the Duzkesme dam, located 7 km downstream of Sir,
and the associated Berke hydropower plant (168 KW with an average annual
generation of 916 GWh). The siting of both hydropower plants was evaluated
together in the original feasibility studies of the Ceyhan-Berke Scheme (para.
3.03). Further studies are still required before the technical specifications
V/ These exclude losses on the distribution network which does not fall under
CEAS' scope of activities.



- 16 -
of the Duzkesme-Berke Project can be finalized.  The construction starting
date has been tentatively set for 1989, making possible cocmissioning by 1995.
2.14    Transmission. The investment plan for the transmission line and
substation facilities presumes that the distribution network does not fall
under CEAS' scope of activities and that its existing service area is not
extended. During the period 1986-1989, CEAS would be adding about 350 km of
transmission and subtransmission lines and 570 MVA of transformer capacities
at existing and planned substations. In addition, during this period TEK
would be investing in the 380-kV transmission lines and 380-kVI154-kV
substations required in the CEAS region to meet the system demand of the
national grid which is owned and operated by TEK (para. 1.21).
Organization and Manpower
2.15    The present organization of CEAS is shown in Annex 2.8.  The Board of
nine directors includes: a chairman; five directors representing private
stockholders, who have two-year terms; and, three directors representing TEK,
who have one-year terms. These appointments are often renewed. The present
Chairman of the Board Ls also chairman of ELTEN-TEK, an engineering consulting
firm, partially owned by CEAS and TEX.
N2.16     CEAS is able to pay higher salaries than those permitted for public
enterprises such as TEK, and attention is also paid by the mangeDnt to
ting the training needs of the staff,1' improving their living
conditions, and providing other benefits. As a result, CEAS has experienced
less than 1S turnover of staff annually, mostly due to retirement. The total
number of employees at the end of 1985 was 889, classified by educational
level and technical area as shown in Table 2.3.
Table 2.3
Profile of Staff of CEAS - 1985
By Educational Level     X           By Activity              S    Number
Higher Education        14           Generation              36      322
High School             47           Transmission            22      192
Secondary School         7           Investment &
Construction           7       61
Primary School          32          Administration           35      314
Total              100               Total              100      889
1/  mmprovements in training facilities are planned by CEAS to keep up with
the expansion of its construction and operating facilities and  $Ill be
supported by the technical assistance component of the proposed Project.
(para. 3.07 and Amnex 3.3).



- 17 -
2.17    CEAS has investments in a number of other companies, including:
about 272 of the shares of the Kepez Electric Company, which is building the
Asagi Manavgat Hydropower Project (48 MW). and 11  of the shares of ELTEM-TER.
In addition, CEAS has a 40X share in CESTAS, which manufactures principally
electrical equipment, including surge protectors and circuit breakers.



- 18 -
III. TME PROJECT
Objectives and Rationale for Bank Financing
3.01     In order to overcome the chronic power shortages facing the Turkish
economy, the Government is encouraging greater participation of the private
sector in the power investments (para. 1.27). Through involvement in this
Project, the Bank could serve as a catalyst to enable one of the first power
plants in Turkey to be constructed and financed without public funds under the
new legislation. Given the present uncertainty about the timing of
legislation defining the legal status of CEAS as a regional utility, CEAS is
unlikely to obtain the required foreign exchange for the Project from other
sources. The Bank's involvement in the Project, in addition, would assist the
country in: (a) developing indigenous hydroelectric resources; (b) reducing
the country's dependence on imported oil; (c) encouraging involvement of the
private sector to supplement public investment in expanding Turkey's
generation capacity to meet the demand; and (d) creating job opportunities in
a less developed region (Kabramanmaras) during the project construction period.
Project Description
3.02    The Project consists of the following components:
(a) construction of a thin concrete double curvature arch dam (120 m high
above the foundation and with a crest length of 32.5 m) at Sir on the
Ceyhan River to form a gross storage reservoir capacity of 1,120
million m3, spillway, bottom outlet, and intake structures, a
powerhouse with three 94.5-MW vertical Francis turbine generator
units, and a switchyard with SF6 switchgear and gas insulated
busbars, including necessary consultancy services and the carrying
out of a resettlement program, or provision of indemnification, as
required, for about 7,000 people currently living in areas to be
affected by the project, including provision of alternative adequate
housing and other comminity and infrastructure facilities;
(b) transmission line facilities to interconnect the Sir powerhouse with
TEK's 380-kV grid, and subtransmission lines and substation
facilities to efficiently transmit the Sir generation to the load
centers in the CEAS service area; and
(c) technical assistance for studies to improve the existing facilities
of CEAS (Mersin, Seyhan, and Kadincik II power stations), a regional
power transmission study including "wheeling" of power over the
National Grid System, training, procurement of training equipment,
and upgrading of existing computer facilities.
A full description of the three project components is provided in Annexes 3.1,
3.2 and 3.3, respectively.



- 19 -
Project Origin
3.03    The proposed Sir Dam on the Ceyhan River in south-central Turkey is
in Kabramanmaras province and is about 36 km by road from the provincial
capital of  Sahrauaras. The Sir Dam, the first phase of the Ceyhan-Berke
scheme, is one of the components of the long-term development of the lower
basin of the Ceyhan River (Annex 3.1, para. l and Attachment 1). The Ceyhan
River Basin Master Plan studies were started by DSI in the year 1966, and the
feasibility study for the Ceyhan-Berke scheme was initiated by EIE in 1975.
The feasibility study (completed by EIE in 1979) considered various
alternatives before arriving at the optimum solution for the scheme consisting
of the Sir Dam with its powerhouse located at the toe of the dam and the
Duzkesme dam connected by a power tunnel with its underground powerhouse (at
Berke), about 11 km downstream of the dam. Based on the conclusions of the
feasibility study, EIE completed the final design documents and technical
specification for the bidding documents in 1983 (Annex 3.1, para. 2). CEAS
applied for and received government authorization to construct both the Sir
and Duzkesme Projects, and applied to the Bank in 1984 for a loan for the Sir
Hydropower Project. The preappraisal mission reviewed the design prepared by
EIE. While the Sir Dam and powerhouse were in an advanced stage of
preparation, the second phase of the scheme (Duzkesme/Berke) needed further
investigations (Annex 3.1. para. 2). It was, therefore, decided to proceed
with the appraisal of the Sir Hydropower Project which is independent of the
second phase and also financially and economically, a viable project. During
negotiations, it was agreed that CEAS could proceed with their plans to invest
in the Duzkesme-Berke project.
Design Modification
3.04    The configuration of the Ceyhan River Valley at Sir and the type of
bedrock was found to be appropriate for the construction of a thin arch dam.
However, during preappraisal the Bank's consultants suggested further refining
of the layout to reduce the cost of civil works. CEAS, therefore, appointed
engineering consultants, Coyne et Bellier of France (C&B), according to the
Bank's Guidelines, to review the final design and to carry out the engineering
and supervision of the Project. The redesign of the dam was reviewed by a
Bank follow-up mission (August 1985). The design modifications (Aznex 3.1,
para. 3) reduced the estimated cost of the civil works by about 201; improved
the foundation stability of the left bank; reduced the head loss; increased
the net head available for the turbines; and facilitated operation and
maintenance of the dam and the powerhouse. The main layout and
characteristics of the Sir Dam and the powerhouse as modified are given in
Annex 3.1, Attachments 2 and 3. The Bank's consultants commented that the
redesigned arch dam is a well balanced double curvature shell, however, they
made suggestions for:  (a) further refining of the dam arch; (b) the limit.ng
of tensile stress in the dam; (c) method to be used for cooling of concrete
during construction; and (d) care to be taken while carrying out consolidation
grouting of the excavation in the left bank. C&B took account of these during
final detailed design. Based on the final design CEAS intends to carry out
the hydraulic model test by October 1986.



- 20 -
Technical Evaluation
3.05    The Dam and the Powerhouse: The Bank's consultants reviewed the
available information on: (a) geology of the dam site; (b) the slope and
stability around the reservoir area; (c) reservoir watertightness;
(d) foundation treatment; (e) drainage and grout curtains; (f) seismicity;
(g) hydrology; (h) availability of suitable construction materials; and (i)
instrumentation and safety of the dam (Annex 3.1, paras. 4-15).  The Bank's
consultants agreed that on the basis of the available information there is a
high degree of integrity of the reservoir. The Bank's consultants also agreed
that, in general, adequate quantities of cement and aggregates are locally
available.
3.06    Transmission:  The Sir Dam powerhouse switchyard will be connected to
the National Grid System. During negotiations, the Government and CEAS agreed
to have CEAS complete, not later than January 15, 1987, a study, to be carried
out by consultants (acceptable to the lank), under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, to determine the optimum arrangements for the
transmission of power in the Cukurova region, including if necessary, the
"wheeling" of CEAS power on TEK transmission lines. The Government and CEAS
also agreed to have TEK and CEAS implement the recommendations of the study in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank. The Project includes about 350 km of
transmission and subtransmission lines, and 570 KVA of transformer capacities
at CEAS' substations (existing and pLanned). The attachment to Annex 3.2
gives the breakdown of these facilities. This would adequately meet CEAS'
requirements up to 1995.
3.07     Technical Assistance:  The Bank considered CEAS' technical assistance
proposals (Annex 3.3) and agreed to include:
(a) studies for rehabilitation of Hersin thermal power station,
additional generation capacity at Seyban hydropower station, the
runner problem at Kadincik II hydropower station, and a regional
power transmission study including "wheeling" of power over the
National Grid System;
(b) training for CEAS staff in the areas of load dispatch, load
management, computer system applications, project planning, financial
management, and manpower planning including training; and
(c) training and computer equipment which would include audiovisual
training equipment, personal computer (hardware and software) and
upgrading of CEAS' existing IBM 4300 computer facilities.
CEAS has finalized and submitted to the Bank for its review draft terms of
reference for: (a) studies; and (b) technical specifications and cost
estimates for the upgrading of its existing computer facilities.  CEAS would
submit in advance for the Bank's review, proposals for the training programs
and curriculum vitae of the staff it intends to send abroad for the above
training.



- 21 -
Status of Proiect Preparation
3.08     The following suumarizes the status of project preparation:
(a) Proiect Management: CEAS has already appointed the Project Manager
and the essential support staff at its headquarters for the dam and
the powerhouse (para. 3.24).
(b)  Engineering Consultants:  In consultation with the Bank, CEAS has
appointed engineering consultants (paras. 3.04 and 3.22) and formed
the International Boerd of Experts for the dam and the powerhouse
(para. 3.23).
(c) Proiect Desixn: C&B has completed the detailed engineering and
design for the dam and the powerhouse (para. 3.05). The transmission
lines and substations component of the Project will be finalized
after review by the Bank of the study and the agreed proposal from
CEAS/TEK (para. 3.06).
(d) Procurement: In order to provide basic infrastructure facilities at
the dam site, CEAS has already awarded contracts for construction of
a temporary bridge and improvements to the main access road to the
site, in July 1985. The contracts for additional boreholes for site
investigation, surveying, mapping and the diversion tunnel works have
also been awarded. In addition, CEAS, in consultation with the Bank,
has prequalified the firms who have submitted offers for the main
civil works contract. Bid evaluation is in progress and
recommendation for award is expected by the end of August 1986.
(e) Land Acquisition: CEAS has agreed to a schedule for land acquisition
and the land required for the start-up of the project has already
been acquired (paras. 3.28 and 3.30).
Cost Estimates
3.09     A sumary of the cost estimates for the Project is given below in
Table 3.1 and is detailed in Annex 3.4.



- 22 -
Table 3.1
Sum arv of the Project Cost
Foreign
TL Million              USS Million        as S of
Local Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign  Total   Total
A. Dam & Powerhouse
Land Acquisition    14,000        -   14,000   20.0        -    20.0      -
Preliminary Works   10,344        -   10,344   14.8        -    14.8      -
Civil Works         25,553   15,919   41,472   36.5    22.7    59.2      38
Hydraulic Eqpt.        428    2,860    3,288    0.6      4.1     4.7     87
Electromech. Eqpt.   6,346   14,907   21,253    9.1    21.3    30.4      70
Switchyard Eqpt.       555    4,957    5,512    0.8      7.1     7.9     90
Eng'g. L. Spv'n.     5.s09    3.847    9.556    8.2      5.5    13.7     40
Base Cost           62,935   42,490  105,425   90.0    60.7   150.7      40
Physical
Contingencies     8.141    5.045   13.186   11.6       7.2    U .8     38
Subtotal         71,076   47,535  118,611  101.6    67.9   169.5      40
Price Contin-
gencies           45.661   44.424   90.085   15.8    14.9    30.7      49
Total A         116.737   91.959  208.696  117.4    82.8   200.2      41
B. Transission Lines
& Substations
Base Cost            5,122   15,120   20,242    7.3    21.6    28.9       75
Physical
Contingencies        512    1.512    2,024    0.7      2.2     2.9      76
Subtotal          5,634   16,632   22,266    8.0    23.8    31.8       75
Price Contin-
gencies            4.701   16.260   20.961    1.6      5.5     7.1      77
Total B          10.335   32.892   43.227    9.6    29.3    38.9       75
C. Tech. Assistance
Base Cost              102    1,019    1,121    0.1      1.5     1.6      94
Physical
Contingencies         10      102       112    0.0     0.1     0.1    100
Subtotal            112    1,121    1,233    0.1      1.6     1.7      94
Price Contin-
gencies               49      486       535    0.0     0.2     0.2    100
Total C             161    1.607    1.768    0.1      1.8      1.9     95



- 23 -
Table 3.1
Summary of the Proiect Cost
(Cont'd.)
Foreign
TL Million              USS Million       as S of
Local Foreign   Total  Local Foreign  Total  Total
D. Project Cost
(A+B+C)
Base Cost           68,159   58,629  126,788   97.4   83.8  181.2    46
Physical Contin-
gencies            8.663    6.659   15.322   12.3     9.5    21.8    44
Subtotal         76,822   65,288  142,110  109.7   93.3  203.0    46
Price Contin-
gencies           50.411   61.170  111.581   17.4   20.6   38.0    54
Total Proi. Cost      127.233  126.458  253,691  127.1  113.9  241.0    47
E. Interest During
Construction
IBRD Loan                -   18.059   18.059      -    18.1   18.1   100
F. Total Financing
Required (D.E)  127.233  144,517  271.750  127.1  132.0  259.1        51
The base project cost is in July 1. 1986 prices, as estimated by C&B and CEAS
and reviewed by the Bank. The cost estimates do not include import duties and
taxes as CEAS will be exempt from such duties and taxes on this Project.
Although CEAS will pay Value Added Tax (VAT) on the expenditures for the
Project, the amounts paid would subsequently be recovered by CEAS (para. 4.13)
and therefore, VAT is not included in the project cost in Table 3.1. Overall
physical contingencies of about lCZ have been added except for the items of
land acquisition, preliminary works and civil works of component A for which
about 151 physical contingencies have been included. These overall
contingencies are in addition to the specific allowances of 25X (excavation)
and 51 (concreting) included in estimates of quantities for the dam and
upstream coffer dam. Similarly, specific allowauces of 51 have been included
for the hydraulic and electromechanical equipment. These overall
contingencies and specific allowances are considered adequate. An exchange
rate of US$1 = 700 TL (July 1, 1986) has been used for converting base costs
and pbysical contingencies from one currency to another. Price contingencies
have been added to the baae cost plus physical contingencies on the basis of
the following annual inflation rate projections:



- 24 -
Costs expressed in:              1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
TL (X)                       30      25     20     20     18      18     16
US$ (S)                       7.2    6.8    6.8    7.0    7.1    4.0    4.0
It is estimated that 102 man-months of consultants are required for completing
the studies included in the technical assistance component.
Proiect Financing Plan
3.10     The financing plan for the Project is siumarized in Table 3.2.  The
total foreign cost of the Project including interest during construction,
US$132 million, is proposed to be covered by a Bank loan to the Republic of
Turkey on standard country lending terms. Funds would be onlent to CEAS under
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement on at least the same terms as the Bank's, with
CEAS bearing the foreign exchange risk. The Bank loan would finance (a) the
foreign cost of civil works, the engineering consultants and experts required
for engineering and supervision of the Project, and technical assistance
(studies, training, and equipment); and (b) foreign cost and local ex-factory
cost of supply and installation of material and equipment. In addition, in
view of the considerable foreign exchange cash flow needs during the
construction period of the Project (para. 4.15), the loan amount would also
cover the interest during construction on the Bank loan.
3.11     For financing of local costs (US$127.1 million equivalent) CEAS will
rely on internal cash generation and new share capital issues. Agreement was
reached during negotiations that CEAS would review the project financing plan
anually with the Bank and the Borrower (para. 4.19).
Table 3.2
Proiect Financing Plan
USS Million
Local     Foreign   Total       S
Bank Loan                                -      132.0    132.0       51
CEAS Internal Cash Generation         98.3           -     98.3      38
CEAS Share Capital                    28.8           -     28.8      11
127.1      132.0    259.1      100
Retroactive Financing
3.12     In order to maintain the time schedule of the Project, it was
essential to appoint the engineering consultants early to review the EIE
design (para. 3.04). In addition, CEAS plan to award the main civil works
contract by end-August 1986 to avoid delaying reservoir filling by one flood



- 25 -
season. Therefore, retroactive financing of about US$5,000,000 would be
allowed to cover expenditures incurred since appraisal in June 1985 for
engineering services and advance payment to the civil works contractor.
Procurement
3.13    All Bank-financed procurement for civil works, and supply and
installation of material and equipment would be according to the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines. Hiring of consultants' services would be done
according to the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
3.14     Bank-Financed Procurement.  International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
according to the Bank's procurement guidelines would be followed for the
following:
(a) civil works (excluding river diversion tunnel);
(b) supply and installation of hydraulic equipment;
(c) supply and installation of electromechanical equipment;
Cd) supply and installation of powerhouse switchyard equipment;
Ce) supply of and erection towers and erection of transmission lines;
(f) supply of transmission line conductors and accessories;
(g) supply of insulators and hardware;
(h) supply and installation of substation switchgear equipment including
cables; and
ii) supply and installation of transformers.
It is likely that doestic manufacturers will submit bids against items (b)
and (e) through (i). In case a contract is awarded to domestic manufacturers,
the Bank would finance the ex-factory amount of the contract. Qualifying
domestic manufacturers will receive preference in bid evaluation of 15X or the
prevailing import duty, whichever is lower. For electromechanical equipment,
the domestic content of each bid will be given preference by adding the
applicable tariff or 15X, whichever is less, to the CIF component representing
the imported elements in the package.
3.15     International shopping according to the Bank's Guidelines would be
used for procurement of: (a) training equipment; and (b) miscellaneous tools,
instruments, and relays for substations and transmission lines. Procurement
following the international shopping method would involve obtaining offers
from at least three foreign suppliers-such procurement being limited to
US$20,000 per contract and US$200,000 in the aggregate.
3.16     Direct contracting following the Bank's Procurement Guidelines would
be used for upgrading of CEAS' existing computer facilities. Total foreign
expenditure under this procedure would be limited to about US$500,000.
3.17     CEAS has already appointed the engineering consultant (C&B) for the
da  and the powerhouse following the Bank's Guidelines (para. 3.04) and
appointed an International Board of Experts (para. 3.23), in consultation with
the Bank, to review the dam design and associated problems during
construction, and to review the progress of construction works. CEAS would



- 26 -
also appoint engineering consultants for engineering and supervision during
construction of the transmission lines, and for studies under the technical
assistance component according to the Bank's Guidelines (para. 3.25).
3.18    Non-Bank Financed Procurement.  The Bank would not finance the cost
of the civil works and supply and installation of material and equipment
procured according to Local Competitive Bidding procedures for the following:
(a) river diversion tunnel; (b) the owners camp; and (c) materials and
equipment for transmission lines and substations. Local shopping procedures
would be used for: (a) miscellaneour civil works; (b) temporary bridge and
site access roads; (c) miscellaneous boring and drilling required for the site
investigation; and (d) engineering consultants for the engineering and
supervision during construction of the substations. land for the Project
would be acquired according to the laws of the country. Considering the
amount involved (about 13X of the project cost), the above proposals for
procurement following local competitive bidding and local shopping procedures
are economical and efficient. Further, to ensure maintenance of the project
time schedule, CEAS would appropriately coordinate the Bank financed and
non-Bank financed procurement activities.
3.19     The procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3.



- 27 -
Table 3.3
Summary of Procurement Arrangements
USS Million
(Procurement Method)
Total
ICB    LCB    Other      N.A.' Cost
1.  Land Acquisition                    -        -        -       25.9    25.9
2. Preliminary Works                    -       13.0      4.0             17.0
(-)      (-)     (-)              (-)
3. Civil Works                          76.3     5.0      -               81.3
(31.0)    (-)     (-)             (31.0)
4.  Hydraulic Equipment&&               6.3      -        -                6.3
(5.5)    (-)     (-)              (5.5)
5. Electromechanical Equipment/-       41.6      -        -               41.6
(29.4)    C-)     (-)             (29.4)
6. Switchyard Equipment4k               11.3     -                        11.3
(10.2)    (-)     C-)             (10.2)
7.  Ingineeriag and Supervision         -        -       10.0      6.8    16.8
C-)      (-)     (6.8)    (-)     (6.8)
8. Transission Lines & Substations   32.0         5.1     1.4 <   0.4    38.9
(28.9)    C-)     (O.3)e5 (Y )    (29.2)
9. Technical Ass. & Training Eqpt.    -           -       1.9      -       1.9
_     L-   (1.8)    (-)       (1.8)
Total                              167.5    23.1    17.3      33.1  241.0
(105.0)    t-)     (8.9)    (-)   (113.9)
/a  Includes installation and erection of the equipment.
/b  Includes engineering and supervision for substations.
/c  Includes engineering and supervision for transmission lines.
/d The colua. "N.A." indicates the costs of land acquisition, engineering
and supervision to be carried out directly by CEAS.
Notes:   1. Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank
2. US$5.0 million provided under the column "LCB" for civil works is
for the river diversion tunnel contract.



- 28 -
Disbursement and Special Account
3.20    The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed over seven years
(1986-1992) on the following basis:
(a) 10O1 of the foreign costs of the civil works;
(b) 10OZ of the foreign cost and 100% of local ex-factory cost of supply
and installation of electromechanical, powerhouse and switchyard
equipment, hydraulic equipment, and supply of material and equipment
for the transmission lines and substations;
(c) 1001 of the foreign cost of the engineering consultants for the dam
and the powerhouse, and transmission lines;
(d)  1001 of the foreign cost of the International Board of Consultants;
(e)  1001 of the foreign cost of the consultants appointed for studies;
(f)  1001 of the foreign cost of training for CEAS staff;
(g) 1001 of the foreign cost of training equipment; and
(i) 1001 of the foreign cost of upgrading of the CEAS computer facilities.
3.21     The disbursement schedule (Annex 3.5) follows the Bank's standard
disbursement profile for EMENA power projects. A special account of US$10.0
million will be established for disbursement of the Bank loan proceeds. The
Bank would also permit the use of statements of expenditure on contracts
valued at US$20,000 or less to assist CEAS in making timely payments to the
contractors. CEAS would retain the supporting documents and make them
available for inspection by Bank supervision missions and by external
auditors. Except in cases of direct payments, no reimbursement applications
for less than US$20,000 would be accepted. Retroactive financing of up to
US$5 million would be allowed (para. 3.12). The Loan Closing Date would be
December 31, 1992.
Project Implementation
3.22     Engineering Consultants.  Based on a contract with CEAS signed May
23, 1985, C W is responsible for: (i) preparation of the bid documents;
(ii) assisting CEAS in examination and evaluation of the bids received; and
(iii) inspection of equipment during manufacture; and (iv) providing advice to
CEAS' project team on engineering, and technical supervision during
construction and comfissioning. CUB has completed the detailed design of the
project. Agreement was reached during negotiations that CEAS would continue
to employ engineering consultants acceptable to the Bank throughout the period
of construction and commissioning.
3.23     International Board of Experts.  The International Board of Experts
which CEAS has already established would: (a) advise CEAS on the design



- 29 -
problems arising during construction and commissioning; (b) review
construction progress by visits to the dam site at regular intervals; and
(c) monitor during construction the safety of the dam and associated
structures, diversion and access tunnels., and the reservoir. The Board would
be constituted of internationally known experts in the fields of rock
mechanics, engineering geology, design and construction of thin concrete arch
dams, and powerhouse equipmeat. Agreement was reached during negotiations
that CEAS would continue to maintain an International Board of Experts
acceptable to the Bank during the construction and comaissioning period of the
Project.
3.24    The Dam and the Powerhouse. CEAS has already appointed the Project
Manager and the essent al support staff at its headquarters. In addition,
CEAS would also have   site organization consisting of a chief site engineer
assisted by civil, electrical, mechanical engineers and surveyors. The CEAS
project team vould be assisted by the engineering consultants in inspection of
the equipment during manufacture and in supervision of the dam and the
powerhouse during construction, and commissioning. CEAS would establish a
laboratory at site for testing of the civil construction materials, an
essential requirement for the quality control during construction of the thin
arch concrete dams.
3.25     Transmission Lines and Substations and Technical Assistance.
Implementation of these components would be the responsibility of CEAS'
Project Planning and Construction Divisions under the assistant General
Manager for Investment. CEAS already has experience in procuring materials
and equipment for its subtransmission lines and substations. It also has
adequate experience in engineering and supervision during construction and
comiissioning for transmission facilities. However, considering the extent of
work involved, it proposes to appoint engineering consultants for the
transission and subtranuo$ssion lines according to the Bank's guidelines.
Implemetation Schedule and Proiect Completion Date
3.26    The construction schedule for the Project (shown by major bid
packages in Annex 3.6) foresees project completion by January 31, 1991. The
impounding of the reservoir would be started in the flood season in 1990 s0 as
to commission units 1, 2 and 3 by end of July 1990, October 1990, and January
1991, respectively. The activities connected with transmission lines and
substations would be coordinated to enable power generated at the Sir Dam to
be effectively utilized by the load centers in CEAS service area. The Project
Completion Date, therefore, would be January 31, 1991. However, on the basis
of the experience reflected in the Bank's disbursement profile of the power
projects, the disbursement would be completed about two years later. The loan
closing date, therefore, would be December 31, 1992 (para. 3.21). To maintain
this time schedule, it is essential that the diversion tunnel be excavated by
end of December 1986 and concretinj, of the tunnel be completed by May 1987.
Similarly, the main civil works contract would be awarded by end-August 1986
and field mubilization started as soon as possible thereafter.



- 30 -
Land Acquisition and Resettlement
3.27    The laws and procedures relating to resettlement have been reviewed
and are considered to contain adequate provisions to protect the rights of the
population to be resettled.  Land needed for public purposes may be acquired
compulsorily in Turkey in accordaace with the Expropriation Law of 1983. This
is a three-step procedure. Firstly, the project agency offers to purchase the
land from the landowner through normal negotiations for the sale and purchase
of land. In the event the landowner does not wish to sell, a notice is filed
for compulsory acquisition in the public interest pursuant to the 1983
Expropriation Lav. Under the Law, a permanent committee in each
province-consisting of local representatives, land experts and members of the
administration-determines the value of land in such cases. Land values are
determined at market value. In the event there is disagreement, the third
step is to take the matter to the courts. There are, in addition, procedures
for resettlement of displaced populations. Landowners are given the option
either to be resettled or to take cash compensation. Usually, it is the
Resettlement Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and Rural
Affairs (MAFRA) that makes available other land for displaced populations.
The cost of resettlement is borne by the project agency. Current resettlement
procedures specify that dam construction and resettlement should be carried
out in a coordinated manner and that priority should be given to the
resettlement of people whose land would be submerged due to dam construction.
In view of the delicate and sensitive issues associated with the resettlement
operations, the Prime Minister has ordered the various agencies involved to
fully cooperate with MAFRA in finalizing resettlement issues quickly.
3.28     The Sir Dam reservoir covers about 48 km2 of surface area and would
affect nine villages having about 7,000 inhabitants (about 1,800 families) in
houses which are mostly built with sun-dried bricks, stones, and briquettes.
The farms in the reservoir area consist of small scattered pieces of land, and
their produce is mostly for their own consumption. About 5,000 hectares of
land will need to be acquired for the Project. CEAS has agreed to acquire the
necessary land in accordance with a timetable agreed with the Bank. CEAS has
been preparing detailed surveys of the many smallholdings in the project area
for the last year and this work is continuing. This land includes 1,400
hectares of arable flat land, mostly devoted to maize and cotton, and 1,900
hectares of arid land or steep slopes. Forest covers around 600 hectares and
vineyards and gardens a further 400 hectares. The balance comprises rivers
(400 ha), villages (100 ha) and unregistered land (200 ha).
3.29     In the most recently constructed hydroelectric project financed by
the Bank, impounding of the reservoir has just begun. All the property
affected has already been acquired and the measures taken by the Government to
resettle the affected population are considered satisfactory. For the
proposed Project, the Government has agreed to carry out with CEAS a
resettlement program for the affected inhabitants, including provision of
alternative adequate housing and other commmity and infrastructure
facilities. There is adequate suitable land within the province and
landowners opting for relocation would first be offered this government-owned
land. If this is not acceptable to them, they would then be offered land in



- 31 -
other provinces. New agricultural land is currently being developed in the
region through irrigation projects.  Land wn_rs who opt for indemification
rather than resettlement vill be compensated is cash. The overall program has
been drawn up by the provincial Directorate of Real Estate and Expropriation.
It involves expenditures totalling 14,000 million TL (US$20 million) for
purchase of the above lands and the buildings thereon. We estimate that this
will be disbursed in accordance with the following timescale:
Year                      Up to 1986      1987       1988       1989
Expenditure (Million TL)     2,800       2,800      4,200      4,200
All costs are 1986 values and are subject to escalation.
3.30    The detailed resettlement program will be in three parts.  The first
part covers all the population (between 300 and 400 families) which will be
affected in the first year. These landholdings cover a 100-hectare area
required ftr the construction of the dam, access roads, and construction
camp. Negotiations with these landonners have already been concluded. All
opted for the cash compensation proposed by the provincial expropriation
comittee rather than resettlement. None appealed to the courts. CEAS has
already signed contracts for the construction of a replacement school, health
center and police station. The second part of the program will cover the land
affected during the second and third years by the completion of the diversion
works and the third part will cover the land to be flooded on completion of
the dam in 1990. For these parts, CEAS bas agreed to furnish to the Bank, not
later than March 31, 1987, a detailed plan of action satisfactory to the Bank
for the areas affected during the first three years of project execution and a
similar comprehensive plan for the remaining affected areas by December 31,
1987, and to promptly carry out the resettlement program in accordance with
those plans. .In view of the satisfactory record of the Government in handling
resettlement issues, these proposals are considered acceptable. The
resettlement, program will be closely monitored by the Bank during project
implementation. A sociologist will be included in supervision missions to
provide technical assistance to the implementing agencies.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.31    To monitor the progress of the Project and permit its evaluition on
completion, CEAS would maintain records on the matters shown in the Project
Monitoring Guidelines in Annex 3.7 and submit a quarterly progress report to
the Bank. On completion of the Project CEAS would prepare a project
completion report.
Inspection of the Dam During Operation
3.32    DSI conducts regular inspections of all the dams in the country and
generally follows the practices of the US Bureau of Reclamation in this
respect. Annual inspections are conducted by the DSI's regional division in



- 32 -
whose territory the dam is located. To ensure proper coordination, CEAS
included a DSI representative in the meetings with the Bank's experts in
August 1985 to review the engineering redesign of the project. CEAS has
confirmed the details of the arrangement with DSI for inspection of the dam
during operation. The inspection and maintenance of the dam during operation
by an independent agency acceptable to the Bank were agreed during
negotiations. DSI would be acceptable to the Bank as the independent agency.
Environmental Impact of the Project
3.33     Cukurova University, Adana, conducted a study (September 1984) of the
environmental impact of the Sir and Duzkesme dams . The report states that the
forests in the project area have been depleted by fires, cutting of trees for
lumber and firewood, and clearing the area for habitation; the Sir and
Duzkesme dam reservoirs would have beneficial effects on the climate of the
region due to the resulting increase in relative humidity, and would assist
the plant life and reforestation. There are no endangered plant species or
plant types that need preservation in the areas to be flooded by the two
dams. The geology and mineralogy of the reservoir area are such that no
significant changes in water quality are anticipated. The formation of the
new shoreline around the reservoir would create a new ecosystem with milder
climatic conditions. Presently the fishing potential in the river and streams
in the project area has not been developed. The report, therefore, suggests
introducing productive fish species in the reservoir area. The report also
recommends recreational places to be provided in the reservoir area.  The
report indicates the existence of six sites-two man-made hills, three bridges
of the Ottoman period, and one hot spring -which could have archaelogical/
historical value. Of these sites, the report suggests that the lopaz man-made
hill (prehistoric to Roman period), and Ceyhan and Gene bridges should be
given priority for investigation. During negotiations, an agreement was
reached with the Borrower and CEAS to ensure appropriate and timely action by
the concerned agencies-" on the environmental issues.
Project Risks
3.34     The geological investigation carried out in the foundation area of
the dam and other structures was generally adequate. Results of additional
investigations carried out at the suggestion of the Bank's consultants have
been taken into account in the final design. There is a risk that unexpected
geological difficulties during construction might cause unexpected delays and
increase the project cost. This risk, however, will be mitigated by providing
expert geological supervision during excavation of foundation and foundation
grouting. C&B and the International Board of Consultants will provide the
required expertise. Furthermore, where it is difficult to assess the
quantities of work with accuracy, sufficient contingency allowances have been
included (para. 3.09) in the project cost.
1 Responsibilities are as follows: Ministry of Culture and Tourism for the
historical monuments; Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs
for fisheries and picnic grounds; and Ministry of Energy and Natural
Resources for protection 3f the lake shores.



- 33 -
IV. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Recent Performance
4.01     CEAS has enjoyed a very healthy financial position in recent years,
due largely to government pricing policy and the regulatory environment.
While electricity tariffs increased steadily in real terms from the beginning
of 1984 to February 1986, the operating costs of CEAS' existing hydropower
stations remained low. Given that between 1970 and 1983 CEAS had not been
authorized to begin construction of new generating facilities, and
distribution investments were also outside its realm, CEAS had been incurring
minimal annual capital expenditures before beginning investments on the Sir
hydropower plant in 1985. As a result of these factors, CEAS has been able to
accumulate substantial reserves in recent years. The estimated return on net
revalued assets in service in 1984 was llS. Net income in 1985 was 19Z of
gross revenues of TL 86 billion (approximately US$150 million equivalent) on
sales of 2,800 GWh.
4.02     CEAS has exercised cautious cash manment practices.  It has no
major customers in arrears; receivables over three months old amount to less
than 1S of total sales. CEAS collects from its largest customer, the TEK
Toroslar Distribution Enterprise, by offsetting these sales against payments
from CEAS to TEK for bulk purchases. CEAS has maintained a current ratio of
over 1.2 since 1980.
4.03     Debt service coverage to date has been more than adequate given that
CEAS has contracted no new borrowings, other than limited medium-term local
debt, since 1971. In 1985 cash generation covered debt service obligations
about 8 times. Under previous Bank loans, a minimum debt service coverage of
1.75 had been agreed to. Although coverage sometimes fell below this level
during the 1970's, it has been over 1.7 since 1981. CEAS continues to be
responsible for principal and interest payments including foreign exchange
risk, on two Bank loans and one IDA credit which were previously onlent to
CEAS by the Government (para. 1.36), and which constitute nearly the entirety
of CEAS' present long-term debt.
Capital Structure
4.04     Since CEAS is adequately capitalized and not highly leveraged and is
in a healthy financial condition, it is presently in a strong position to
undertake the proposed Project. The debt/equity ratio for CEAS at the end of
1985 was about 10/90, when equity is restated to reflect estimated asset
revaluation (para. 4.10). CEAS presently has an authorized share capital of
TL 15 billion of which TL 3.6 billion (about US$6 million in book value) has
been paid in, following an issue of new shares in 1983 and again in 1985.
CEAS is subject to the provisions of the Capital Markets Law, issued in 1981,
and to the Capital Markets Board (SPK), which was established to carry out the
Government's policy of strengthening the regulation of capital markets and
protecting the rights of shareholders. For any new issues of shares up to the
authorized level, CEAS must obtain clearance from the SPK, the application



- 34 -
being accompanied by a three-year financial forecast, which will allow the SPK
to determine whether the company is likely to be in a strong enough financial
position to pay an adequate return to its shareholders. To date CEAS has had
no difficulty in obtaining permission for new share issues.
4.05    An increase in the authorized share capital requires a meeting of
shareholders representing at least 75S of existing capital, obtaining a
two-thirds vote in favor of such an increase and then applying to the Capital
Markets Board for authorization. An increase in the authorized share capital
of CEAS is not expected to occur until 1989, following increases in the
paid-in capital within the present limit of authorized capital (TL 15 billion)
each year through 1988.
4.06    CEAS stock is widely held, as discussed in para. 2.03.  TEK's shares
account for one quarter of the total paid-in capital, and individuals, trade
associations, banks, insurance companies and other private firms own the
balance of the shares.
Tariffs
4.07     For the past two years, CEAS has been allowed to charge its own
consumers the same electricity tariffs as those applied by TEK in other
regions. The timing and level of tariff increases on the national level to
date have normally been determined by power subsector financing requirements
and by fuel cost adjustments, and usually occur in response to an application
frm TEK to the Government. As mentioned previously (para. 1.29), by April
1986 bulk electricity tariffs had reached approximately 901 of the level of
LI.C. Additional adjustments will be needed in the future in the overall
level .as well as the structure of tariffs to assure that they reflect the
economic cost of supply to different customer groups. Average purchase and
sales tariffs and the bulk tariff schedule for recent years are shown in
Annexes 4.1 and 4.2.
4.08     Under the Bank loans made to TEK in recent years, a number of
agreements were reached regarding the level and structure of electricity
tariffs and the overall financial performance of the power subsector. These
covenants are suuumarized as follows: '
(a) the internal cash generation of TEK is to be sufficient to finance at
least 35S of the subsector public investment program (TEK and DSI
electric power investments) in 1986 and thereafter;
(b) electricity tariffs are to be adjusted automatically to reflect
increases in TEK's fuel costs;
1/ See Loan Agreements for: Third and Fourth TEK Transmission Projects
(Loans 2322 and 2586-TU), and Power System Operations Assistance Project
(Loan 2602-TU).



- 35 -
(c) retail electricity tariffs are to be adjusted to reflect increases in
bulk tariffs;
(d)  TEK and the Government will discuss with the Bank the recomendations
of a study of the LRMC of electricity supply, and then agree with the
Bank on a timetable to implement these recomiendations to reflect
these costs in its tariffs (para. 1.28); and
(e) the Government will review with the Bank by October 31 of each year
the detailed pover subsector investment program and related financing
plan for the next year, as well as the general requirements and
related financing plan for the next five years.
4.09     Subsequent to each announced tariff increase, CEAS is required to
submit a statement to the Government showing the effect of the new tariff on
its financial situation (Annex 4.3). In particular, increases in the rate
paid by CEAS to TEK for supply at the 154-kV level occur in parallel with the
changes in wholesale tariffs; the latter changes being reflected
simultaneously in the retail electricity rates. On average over the last
three years, supply from TEK has been priced at 85S of CEAS' average sales
revenue. Since CEAS relies on purchases from TEK for over half of its power
supply, the cost of purchased power is its largest single operating expense.
AccountinR Policies, Asset Valuation, and Audit
4.10     CEAS maintains its accounts in accordance with the Turkish Commercial
Code. Until recently, exchange losses relating to outstanding foreign debt
were capitalized by adding an equivalent amount to fixed assets. As a result,
the part of fixed assets financed by foreign Aebt has been revalued, while the
local component is still stated at the historical value. On the basis of a
pro forma asset revaluation carried out by the mission, the end-1984 value of
net assets in service was adjusted from TL 9.5 billion (appearing on the
corporate balance sheet) to TL 63.9 billion. Starting in 1984, CEAS bcgan to
charge foreign exchange losses on long-term debt for completed capital
projects against income, as had been recommended by its auditors.
4.11     No part of the cost of the Seyhan Dam is reflected on CEAS balance
sheet. This dam is owned by DSI and was completed in 1956 for purposes of
irrigation and flood control as well as power generation. The Seyhan power
plant is however included on the CEAS balance sheet at its historical v:'ue
less depreciation. CEAS does pay water charges to DSI as a users' fee for the
dam: TL 0.02 per kWh of electricity generated by the Seyhan power plant.
4.12     CEAS' financial statements are prepared on a timely basis and axe
reviewed regularly during the year, by a board of internal auditors. The
Turkish Commercial Code requires that the annual financial report be submitted
by mid-March, two weeks prior to the annual shareholders meeting. An external
audit is then carried out by qualified independent Turkish auditors acceptable
to the Bank, and which in recent years have been associated with international
audit firms. However, due to the limited availability of qualified
independent auditors in Turkey, CEAS has had difficulty in completing the



- 36 -
audit of its accounts before July or August of each year. Therefore, it was
agreed during negotiations that CEAS would submit its internally audited
annual financial statements to the Bank not later than five months after the
close of each year and that it would forward to the Bank, not later than nine
months after the close of each year, its annual financial statements audited
by external auditors.
Taxes
4.13     CEAS collocts, as does TEK, a number of taxes from its customers
including a 3.5S tax for the Turkish Radio and Television (TRT) Agency and a
Value Added Tax (VAT) of 101 on its sales including the TRT. After deducting
the VAT paid on its own purchases from the VAT billed to its customers, CEAS
transfers the net amount collected to the Government. The VAT paid on
purchases to be incorporated in fixed assets is similarly recovered.
Corporaticn tax and other levies on profits are assessed at the rate of 47.381
of the tamable income base. The taxable base is arrived at by taking net
income after interest and depreciation, and subtracting from it expenditures
made for specially approved investment projects such as Sir.
Financial Forecasts
4.14     The financing plan for the Project is summarized in para. 3.11 and
Table 3.2. The total foreign cost of the Project, including interest during
construction on the Bank loan, would be covered by a Bank loan to CEAS. The
local cost of the Project is expected to be financed through internal cash
generation (771) and new share capital issues (23S).
4.15    In view of the considerable foreign exchange cash flow needs during
the construction period of the project, it is proposed that the Bank finance
interest during construction on the proposed Bank loan.
4.16     The forecast financial statements and resulting ratios are shown in
Annexes 4.4 to 4.7. The corporate funds flow for the 1986-94 period is
suimmarized in Table 4.1.  It has been assumed that the Sir hydropower plant
will start commercial operation in 1991 and will produce 501 of expected
average gross generation in 1991, and 1001 (or 725 GWh) from 1992 onwards.
Other assumptions relied upon for the financial forecasts are given in
Arnnex 4.8.



- 37 -
Table 4.1
CEAS: Proiected Financing of Capital Expenditures 1986-1994
Billions of TL    2
(Current Prices)
FINANCING SOURCES
Gross Internal Cash Generation                                   892         100
Less: Debt Service - Principal                                  (128)        (15)
- Interest                                    (81)        (9)
Dividend Payments                                          (82)         (9)
Inc. in Working Cap. Other than Cash                      (100)       (_11)
Net Internal Cash Generation                                 501          56
IBRD Loan: Sir Project                                           145          16
Credit for Duzkesme/Berke                                         25           3
Foreign Exchange Adjustments-Outstanding Loans                   129          15
Total Borrowing                                              299          34
New Share Capital                                                  86         10
TOTAL SOURCES
APPLICATIONS
Capital Expenditure:
Sir (including Transmission & TA)
Total                                            272
Less:  1985 Expenditure                            4          268         30
Duzkesme-Berke                                                  463         52
Other                                                           139         16
Total CaPital Expenditure                                    870          98
Increase in Cash                                                   16          2
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                           au          1Q2
Potential Financial Implications of Cbanges in Legal Status of CEAS
4.17     If CEAS becomes a regional utility (para. 2.02), its operating
revenues would increase through direct electricity sales to retail customers.
On the other hand, CEAS would incur increased operating and maintenance
expenditures related to the distribution network, which would also require
major investments for rehabilitation and expansion. The possible terms for
transferring to CEAS other generating plants in the region (all hydroelectric)
have not been determined. Agreement was reached during negotiations that CEAS



- 38 -
and the Government will exchange views with the Bank in respect of any
proposals leading to the restructuring or reorganization of CRAS.
Financial Covenants
4.18    It is recommended that the Bank rely on the framework of the existing
covenants agreed to under other power subsector loans in Turkey (para. 4.08).
and on the ongoing energy sector discussions for the establisimh t of
acceptable electricity pricing levels, rather than introducing additional
revenue covenants under the Sir Hydropower Project which could require
different tariff levels for the Cukurova region. As mentioned in the
preceding paragraphs. CEAS has enjoyed a very healthy financial position in
recent years, and an important factor has been that CRAB has benefitted from
substantial rate increases under the existing covenants (paras. 4.01, 4.07).
In order to ensure the continued finnncial viability of CRAS, agreement was
reached during negotiations with the Govern et and CEAS that, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the existing rrngemets for setting CRABS  tariffs
will be maintained.
4.19    Agreement was also reached during negotiations that CRAS will supply
to the Bank and the Government for their review by December 31 of each year
starting in 1986. an updated financing plan for the entire imple eation
perio-i of the Project, showing projections for local and foreign ezpenditures,
disbursement of the proposed Bank loan, expected use of local financing
sources and the cost of those sources. Planned share capital issus and
dividend payments would also be reviewed at the same time. The project
financing plan will be accompanied by a financial forecast for all of the
activities of CRAS -mtil 1992. the first year of full operation of the Project
or later if project completion is delayed.
4.20    Moreover, agreement was reached during negotiations that CRAS will
obtain the Bank's consent prior to carrying out (i) any major investment ($25
million or more equivalent) in power generation facilities, other than the
facilities included in the Project, or (ii) detailed egineering and design
for any such investment. However, the Bank has consented to CRAS' plans to
invest in the Duzkesime-Berke Hydropower Project (para. 3.03).
4.21     Furthermore, agreement was reached durii- negotiations that CLAS will
not incur additional debt, except with the Bank's prior approval unless a
reasonable forecast of internal cash generation for each year during the term
of the debt to be incurred is estimated to be at least 1.5 times the total
debt service due in that year on all outstanding debt including that to be
incurred.



- 39 -
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Least-Cost Analysis
5.01     In addition to promoting the role of the private sector in all
aspects of the electricity subsector activities (para. 1.27), an important
component of the Government's energy strategy is the economic and least-cost
development of indigenous resources, especially hydropower (para. 1.11). The
role and importance of hydropower resource development has been reviewed in a
Bank sector study. The absence of a detailed hydropower project ranking and
inventory makes it difficult to estimate exactly how the proposed Project
compares in cost with all other major potential hydropower sites inl Turkey.
Under the Kayraktepe Hydropower Project (Loan 2655-TU), the Government will
undertake a systematic review of all hydropower projects within Turkey and
rank them on a comparable cost basis. This will be of major assistance to DSI
and the Government in planning the optimal development of the hydropower
subsector.
5.02     In connection with the preparation of the proposed Project, the Bank
reviewed a number of available studies on hydropower projects and concluded
that the Sir Hydropower Project fell well within the range of economically
viable hydropower projects in Turkey. In addition, as part of the appraisal
of the Elbistan Operation & Maintenance Assistance Project (Loan 2650-TU), an
extensive review of the cost of thermal alternatives was carried out (Annez
5.1), which shows that the proposed Sir Hydropower Project would generate
electricity at lower cost than any other baseload thermal plant included in
the expansion program for the power subsector and most of the hydropower
planta. It is estimated that the proposed Project, which would be for peaking
and sub-peaking supply and would have a load factor of about 301, would have a
kWh cost of about 4 US cents (1986 prices).
Return on Investment Program
5.03     Since the Project forms a part of the national 1985-1995 expansion
program, the economic rate of return on the whole timeslice power investment
program 'or 1985-1995 was calculated (Annex 5.2, Attachment 1).
5.04     The measurable costs comprise: (a) the capital cost of the estimated
expansion program for 1985-1995 (generation, transmission and distribution);
(b) operating costs; and (c) the fuel cost of incremental thermal generation
excluding fuel savings. No fuel escalation was assumed since increases in the
price of fuels are covered by the fuel adjustment clause incorporated in the
tariff structure. Detailed assumptions as well as results of the analysis are
presented in Annex 5.2.
5.05     Measurable benefits were limited to the incremental revenue
attributable to the program computed on the basis of: (a) TEg's and CEAS'
projected sales to industrial customers supplied directly at the high-voltage
level and to low-voltage consumers supplied through TEK's distribution
enterprises; (b) projected tariffs at the high- and low-voltage levels; and



- 40 -
(c) net fuel savings resulting from investment in improved efficiency in the
thermal plants not included in the costs of meeting incremental output. Since
the tariff used in the calculation were estimated as a proxy for consumers'
willingness to pay, all taxes were included. Given the large unmet demand
(para. 1.19), the willingness to pay for electricity is likely to be higher
than the current average tariff; but it cannot be readily quantified. The
rate of return analysis thus indicates the adequacy of tariffs (including
taxes) rather than the economic viability of the Project, which in determined
in the least-cost analysis.
5.06     Under the above assumptions, the return on the program is estimated
at just over 11.5S compared to an estimated opportunity cost of capital of
12Z; reflecting the fact that tariffs are slightly below the economic cost of
supply as measured by the long-run marginal cost. mowever, it understates the
real economic return since the  easurement of benefits underestimates the
willingness to pay for electricity.



- 41 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMHENDATIONS
6.01    During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Borrower and CEAS:
(a) to have CEAS furnish to the Bank, not later than January 15, 1987, a
power transmission study to be completed by consultants (acceptable
to the Bank) under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.06);
(b) to have TEK and CEAS implement the recommendations of the
transmission study in manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.06);
(c) to carry out a resettlement program, or provision of indemnification
as required, for the people currently living in areas to be submerged
by the Sir reservoir, including provision of alternative adequate
housing and other cosmunity and infrastructure facilities (para.
3.29);
(d) that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the existing
arrangements for setting CEAS' tariffs will be maintained (paras.
4.07 and 4.18);
(e) that CEAS and the Borrower will exchange views with the Bank in
respect of any proposals leading to the restructuring or
reorganization of 'EAS (para. 4.17);
(f) to have CEAS submit to the Government and the Bank by December 31 of
each year, starting in 1986, an updated financing plan for the entire
implementation period of the Project, and review this plan with the
Bank and the Borrower (para. 4.19).
6.02    During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Borrower to:
(a) operate a Special Account for the Project out of which payments to
CEAS' suppliers could be made (para. 3.21);
(b) cause the dam constructed under the Project to be periodically
inspected by DSI or another acceptable agency in accordance with
sound engineering practices, in order to determine whether there are
any deficiencies in the condition of such a structure, or in the
quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operation of the
same, which might endanger its safety (para. 3.32).
6.03    During negotiations, agreement was reached with CEAS to:
(a) employ engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank,
to assist CEAS in carrying out the detailed engineering, procurement
(preparation of bid specifications, bid evaluation and inspection of
materials and equipment during manufacture) of materials and



- 42 -
equipment required for the Sir Dam and the powerhouse, and carrying
out engineering supervision during construction and commissioning of
the Sir Dam and the powerhouse facilities (para. 3.22);
(b) maintain during project implementation an International Board of
Experts with qualifications satisfactory tc the Bank, to advise CEAS
on technical matters during the design and construction and
comaissioning of the Project (para. 3.23);
(c) furnish to the Bank, in accordance with a timetable agreed during
negotiations, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that land and rights
in respect of land required for the Project have been acquired (para.
3.28);
(d) furnish to the Bank, in accordance with a timetable agreed during
negotiations, a detailed plan of action satisfactory to the Bank for
the second and third parts of the resettlement program for the areas
to be affected by the project, and promptly carry out the
resettlement program in accordance with these plans (para. 3.30);
(e) furnish to the Bank its audited annual financial statements and audit
report not later than nine months after the close of the year (para.
4.12);
(f) obtain the Bank's approval prior to signing contracts for
construction of new power generation facilities other than Sir and
Duzkesme-Berke or for engineering services for other projects (para.
4.20);
(g) maintain a minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.5 times (para.
4.21).
6.04     Subject to the above, the proposed Project is recommended for a Bank
loan of US$132 million equivalent for seventeen years, including a four-year
grace period, at the standard variable interest rate, to the Borrower, the
Republic of Turkey.
July 1986
(2745P)



- 43 -
ANNEX 1.1
TURUSY
SIR HYDROPOWER PROJECT
National Enern Balance (1978-1984)
(Million tons of oil equivalent, HT08)
1978          1980           1982         1984 /a
NTOE     S    MTOE             ME      S    MTME    Z
Consumption
Petroleum                  18.0   51.6   16.2   46.3   17.1   45.2   18.1   44.7
Lignite                     4.0   11.4    4.6   13.1    5.2   13.8    6.6   16.3
lard coal                   2.8    8.0    2.7    7.7    3.0    7.9    3.5    8.7
Asphaltite                  0.1    0.3    0.2    0.6    0.3    0.8    0.1    0._
Hydroelectric               2.3    6.6    2.8    8.0    3.5    9.3    3.4    8.4
Imported Electricity        0.2    0.6    0.3    0.9    0.1    0.3    0.2    0.5
wood                        4.6   13.2    4.8   13.7    5.0   13.2    5.2   12.8
Wastes                      2.9    8.3    3.4    9.7    3.6    9.5    3.4    8.4
Total Consusmtion        34.9  100.0   35.0  100. 0   3.0  100.0   40.5  100.0
Damatic Production
Petrolem                    2.;    8.3    2.4    6.9    2.5    6.6    2.2    5.5
Lignite                     4.6   13.2    4.3   12.3    5.3   14.0    6.9   17.0
lard coal                   2.6    7.4    2.2    6.3    2.5    6.6    2.2    5.4
Aspbaltite                  0.1    0.3    0.2    0.5    0.4    1.1    0.1    0.2
Hydroelectric               2.3    6.6    2.8    8.0    3.5    9.3    3.4    8.4
Wood                        2.3    6.6    2.7    7.7    2.3    6.1    2.6    6.4
Wstes                       2.9    8.3    3.4    9.7    3.6    9.5    3.4    8.4
Subtotal                 17.7   50.7   18.0   51.4   20.1   53.2   20.8   51.4
Illicit Deforestation       2.3    6.6    2.1    6.0    2.7    7.1    2.6    6.4
Net Stock Changes          j0.7)  (2.0)   0.1    0.3   (0.2)  (0.5)  (0.1)  (0.2)
Total Daoe tic SuvPlD   19.3   55.3   20.2   57.7   22.6   59.8   23.5   58.0
I ports
Petroeim                   15.2   43.5   14.3   40.9   16.0   42.3   17.4   43.0
lard Coal                   0.3    0.9    0.5    1.4    0.6    1.6    1.2    2.9
Electricity                 0.2    0.6    0.3    0.9    0.2    0.5    0.2    0.5
Total Imports            15.7   45.0   15.1   43.2   16.8   44.4   18.8   46.4
Petrolei  Exports          (0.1)  (0.3)  (0.3)  (0.9)  (1.6)  (4.2)  (1.8)  (4.4)
Total SUPpl              34.9  100.0   35.0  100.0   37.8  100.0   40.5  100.0
la Preliminary estimtes.
Source: Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources.



ii     S    *uSvmhNml"Ru         11  22mRRRRmR33mm.uuau3 ,R mmUhhllU   3333*2:28WS  5 
- |8        ! | I         SONwREhRA!       se"t"*^Rs""ag" 'u            ' * sMMu  "u 3hh2..N9999S5 *    1
-I-   --           H I-- - R-R---- --- --- -- RR RR- RR|lRsug----- --------S  S 3W9 9   -   - 5 
#1    s9Sll"""|##fll##RRRRR"3 Aft d " "00 "'t"t"W a" @st"aw1@ oftf
ii     5    33333"|lfl:hRR1      ""R1R3 RRm3ASmuim*'"'"'e''" "''''':'''s'''" |s
3  i           mm33Esm| s|~ ve asw|s| mesa ems....,. sees. aseamema eameame Sllll  15
ffi  O              1115  eels,,..,, 555111 isa s, images sss, 5,5553 *ggSSggsmg ases    i 
a  -~ ca          - -                                 -%- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -- -- - - - - - - - - - -
-- -- -- -- -- -------   ------------------------------------------iiZU7W    it      --s
3            imjjaaagasggisssgalaegasaagsmeeeeaagme   0 
I                ,,e,Cea,a,aaaaasaasasaaaslaagas 
|  31"   3W|33gglRRgR3Utt3UU33RR333flh*1111UgABIRhRhh3ll0fj3333W3                       5 



-45 -                          ANNE 1.2
Page 2 of 5
------------------------------------------_.----
ffi I  l.  RRRR|sissiSg!WngRs88R8888 1 g   s   Son    I
#4                                           -~~~..  ".
Ro22o2^iRRgRg''282E88818    -   I
.9        I& on d".0 " ft - t - " -0 --   - - - -   0~"0v
3    RR"3g5ASl88 B88~8  -8fiS
i! I     U,                                    '     ~
- --  -- --   -   -   -  -- - --- - - -- -     ----     
**i                      C~~O@llI88808t8o0o80lCESI9| i   211
X   0_-e<_<*__^_^""__z""8z00,i 0
j]. .______________________________________
-}.,----------- -- ------ --- U,-----
ii-|-26g6 ;}}}@3a=
________________________
sI ~     ~     ---- a"wwb^"_"_"Z" -
Zj ii g1l":alj}glilSii8                                                       l



II  5   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iol$1 IIIIIII io       'u3vE2in  
--  ------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
I I       5       t"^ffB.kk^99""R""22 " "    ^mo A*"                 '    * PI*   "*    " ' 'O "R 3   ' ' "  ' '  t4 "
so                                              - I  S                                                         I -
ii5                eegaeaegges*gg *|b||4""|"|l"||"gwg eeeeeeeeee sea               aeeeasgsegges ese e
II     o    r   F   .n*",*sg ss a s^  r*r a....................................g..........eae e g a a b t g g t ef s a g g g e e e e   s  .F r 360*
i WggIhEiaamm,mA,3Ra1s.Kmm.m3m.""g..SSgNhhK3,,vv7wagRR!!
.1
iiJ  .               lll ll1111lllllflIIluuilfluJinif                                                U    IIlllllllllsss



-47-                           ANNE 1.2
Page  of 5
~~~~ ~~~~~4l
!1~~          - - -           -   - - - @g@@881            !    RE
- _____ -       _- - -              ."          P ii
1 ~~~         --- 8882@ @X-           -|-8g1 -      -- U
_      -- ---          ---                  _E ms 
-                                 -~~~~~~~~9 A
1 ~~         -   -gsagaR    '                               in3}8s|s-s    ,2;
Ia       St a%
i- |  l-     ll  ' .3'''''''''B'   RB'''|g g 3  R
Ii,           _ _   _                                 * 3Ssb83RU33ass
f I        g    8                                 1 pt          I
Nba j       0~~~~C on * -O f -t .4 C4 Oh.   " ~            ~"- - d"((.q.~   #4( .0   " " %
a1 ffi '''''''''' 1 -    i-                                         0
s~~~~~~r 4  ~ -     14>~^ (- #4.-- 4 .#4 44 (4 
1h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*(
II. d ---------------    p--------
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21 ,i! |J ii  ii Ji In;"3.,. Xq   33 |$|  
__ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ __  _  __   __  __  _



- 48 -
ANNEX 1.2
Page 5 of 5
SUMMARY TABLE
TEK Electricity Generation and Sales
1984-1995
(in GWh)
nim:  b
A. m0                      15K    1S55    11       1!10   1911    1309   130D      151    1532    1531   159    15915
hiueI~~~~           5.~65   5.X13   51,5  25,350  D,O ID3.10001  30100  3D,010  ;s,1iD0   3.0,1   3D,00  3.01
12,55  12.000  12,95  12.00   10,000  10.,11 0,0   100,M   10.0   1o.m   io.    10.0
1443 14.13 I    . 13s,90  13,90  AOMO  10.0D=  lkO=O  10.m   10O.  1%0.0   1,Ohs  10,OCD
ai  ke_ !                1.639   1.56   1.3%   1356   1,00D  101    1.0100    900      g0     0       we    700
k adis a im              25.0    21.574  25,53399  2%,t  19.0  19.1   19,   19,1   19.0  19.2   19,3   19.
NW 1     -i                     0   3,0   6,914  14.3   24.55  30,216  33,721 3.60   41,M 45 6.13 95  31.15
0      0      14   956   6,415  10,.40  12,7   123  125  16.47   21.M5  2,3
I i - 10   3,22D   6.9D0  13.17  1s,110  19,476  2n1,3  6,11  3.    30jo1   31.760  31,70
sti  vwbn    '              0     3 o    6m    1,32   1al   1,9U   2.1    2,174   2A6    2,415   2,51   2,2n
NM _ C-otim                   0   2.31    6.6  13.OW   21.714   M.5   31.51   345  39.1   4%21   30.51 t         ,53
InalG  mti                 2.U6   29,33  33,9   40.33  44s55  50.26  53.72   1 6.68  61,745   6,6   73.5  76.15
-9;t                    159  12.000  12,5M   1256  16.41   3.740  ZnZ1  226   22*6  5.43  31.7M   34M6
wi-R                    14 4    17,33  2,O  V737  23.11   2F36   31.0O  34.13   38.93  40.11   4.    41.780
-im u b. 1               1.639   1.56   2.M0   2,733   2,51   2.5    3.1   3,04   3.3    3.a1   3,31   2,59
U       1 1           25.5        1   1.76  317,65  41,714  47.58   057   53,53 3 .!35 1    63,U   70.3   73.13
Jqmu.t                   2,931   3.1    2,730    70D       0       0       0      0       0       0       0      0
I=l     AUNL              2B,1   30.6V   S,5D  3MA    41,74  4P.5   5057  53.9           . 21  63.44   7018   73.13
_.   _  (CZ)            1.578   1.5    1,75   1,95   2.16   2,363   2.5    2.677   2,912   3.12   3.M    369
uw.XL =smi                5.4    29,14  32,73  36.3q   39.69  45   41.D   30.5  5A329  60,6  66.75  65.5
IL AIZAMM 3I1I
-Diut V uply (SW         13,.7  14.X   16,M4  1915   19,.4  22.452  2%05  Z54    27,    30.13   33.W   34,762
-Wa_ati at. (CM)  13,637  14.55   16,39   1.195  19,54  22,4   21,5  25,4    7,84  30133  33.2W  34.2
1hdb"                    1,09   10m    700    730        0       90D0    g     1.30   1.00   1,20   1.30   1.20
*nk k-m. g               2,OM    2,570   2,64   2,64    3,5    3,5M   3,739   3.99    4k.3    4.75   5,j    5,39*
Nt d&    atimm .Wly    11.635  13,1   14.530  16.10   1.52   19.,  21,15  Z65  2495  26,637  29.3   30,367
S U                       25,432  27,51  30.93  34.    .33?  U,31   45,211  43,04  52,159   ,75  86    65,32
1/ lI f   1915 to 1950, 9 i 191 & 1IM, 3 in 1993 & 15. im 72 in 1935.
if 11 fi  1915 to 1950. 14S in 1911 1, 133 fwm 5M =mem.



- 49 -
ANNEX 2.1
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
SIR HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Sumuary of Laws Applicable to CEAS
Law        Date              Name                 Maior Features/Changes
Regn. No.   12/24152    Charter of Cukurova      - Defines the organization,
16/1835                 Elektrik A.S. (CEAS)      management, and capital
(Adana)                                           structure of CEAS.
- Gives CEAS a 50-year life.
- Amended in 1957, 1961.
_          8/26/53      Concession Agree-        - Authorizes CEAS to produce
ment between CEAS         transmit and sell electri-
and the Government        city within its concession
of Turkey                 area.
(represented by        - Expires in 2002.
MENEW.
Specification           - CEAS tariffs are set accord-
anrneed to Con-           ing to the provisions of
cession Agreement.        Art. 10 of the Specification
6762        1/1/57       Turkish
Commercial Code
Regn. No.   6/17/60      Electricity Tariff      - Sets out principles on basis
10528                   Regulations                of which tariffs are estab-
lished & applied for all
entities in Turkey.
- Amended in 3/9/61 & 10/27/67
2499        2/1/81       Capital Markets Law     - Regulates issue and sale of
commen stock shares.
-           Published    Principal Statute       - Defines TEK as a Public
11/9/84;     of the Turkish Elec-      Economic Establishment under
effective    tricity Authority         Law 233 and under the juris-
1/1/85                                 diction of the Ministry of
Energy and Natural Resources
(MHE).
- Provides for TEK to cooper-
ate with other entities and
corporations in establishing
electricity production and
distribution facilities.



- 50 -
AWNEX 2.1
Page 2 of 2
Summary of Laws ApDlicable to CEAS
Law         Date              Name                MNaor Features/Chantes
3096         12/19/84    Law conzerning the       - Perzits Turkish and foreign
entrusting of elec-       companies to (a) operate
tricity generation,       as fully integrated electri-
transmission, distri-     city utilities within a
bution and cc'sce         service area, (b) form a
to entities otber         joint stock company only for
than TEK.                 electricity generation, or
(c) take over TEK's opera-
ting right for particular
facilities.
- The above rights would be
valid for up to 99 years.
Article 9 sets out tariff
principles.
Regulation   9/4/85      Service Area             - Defines 15 areas in Turkey
Of Lay                   Regulation                 to be served by regional
3096                                                utilities.  Area No. 1 in-
cludes Icel, Adana and Hatay
provinces, plus Sir project
site in Kabraanmaras pro-
vince.
Regulation   9/4/85      Regulation for Private  - Explains procedures to be
of Law                   Entities planning to       followed by entities apply-
3096                     build electricity          ing to build and operate
generation facilities.   power plants, the criteria
for review of applications
by MENR, and the guidelines
for setting sales tariffs.



- 51 -
-~
-                                      V0 I.E 2
Tb of
1Ubic Sector
Ic. _A a  aw i                                LI3
FcUa Fimwci-1 OffM 
Adma Nmicipslity                           u.w5
FOURi R.icipsiTy                              Lie
CqIm Nadeipslity                            2.766
nmm9              26.1
bniw
T. Is   *                                  ll.iS,
T.qpebw BE&5D2
T. Cncial Rk                              19503
Rubm&                                      72,554
T. Is     n                                1-16w
174.K2
Abu I                                         72
SD.O59            16.3
hPmim lbml aitutio   uti
Pwuaml Nuiam
pIinm rs-  m im                            35,61
Zero  P      Il                            35,I1
Aid IY1i0                                 22518
CD P~s                                    1SO,79Q
T. Iria lwIp.t1 -f
Pemmm1 Pmk                                    60
Ahok P1ometua     P~ima                   5S1.66S
-  -_t intia
Sdrer Thmowice PJom    ll.W
Fookhtin                       ~~~~~~~~5,450
TI.  _e PWmae1 ?.Psins                     1=
tktimla Xrmmzice Pearndw                    2.M0
re Ib1digB 1aa I P aimi                       16
32.S2D           g9.0
Cobaers of Vimrce
hA   Crcial  bu,r                           S.91
Ad   Twuhtral (3  iNr                       9.000
Hbri  oxmtdal Mw                            2.0Wulch6w9
Cejbm Qinocial NailDt                          5
21,W6            0.6



- 52 -
hECK!                                    Arumrh 2.2
-  Pe 2 of 2
Shn-ebo1ders of CAS
(As of Deo 1985)
uoof
a-~~~~
nmaraimc  xpanies                         ('1000 IL)             Z
Aksigcwta                                     109778
Alaln hAmm Tar Tnmsu3ce                       35,150
Effetern lm rmemm                              8,1w
Tm Tam                                         4,m50
T. Gal lmue                                    4,42
_ddiuzr                                        1,022
lauk laurnie                                  14,342
1Diga TlMawae                                  8,613
Titus                                         129695
blk 1      ourance                               738
Birlk Tnouuwe                                    1a
100,536            2.8
ln&euial md Obr Co   p  es
Yarn F     =nancial Ibi                           20
okbirli                                       62a0
Bumss                                          2,768
13ibva c      t-  ort                            248
AMma Industry ml Trade                           225
Se3bon Tzxutzy ad Trad
;Gad Sn                                    10
Kayir CoUativew 2Qu6
TA-fted Liable Cooperaive of mlniczafta            1
Moilve 9zlem DirNO   COllective Cot.              49
Q    _uv  InuTwS                              510228
lerda Temile Indstry                           5,454
Kqez E c                                      44*
Iitry Ebldirg                                  1,800
H     0h Ozgz lD1dizg                          3,485
Bac |     Sdumci                               2,7(5
DdIb  liport mnd Eport                            92
Nhsa Food Industry ad Trade                      60D
Vde OEiet Pre                                    64
S_mz Holdizg AJ.                                 29B
hdmcel Cttu, Treed, Ol TnduuT                 34,3
210,714            5.9
Private lidividnls                         1,417,454            39.4
1C3X;L                                3,600,000             100



- 53 -
AM= 21.3
TURKEY
SIR HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Gross Generation and Fuel-Oil Consumption
at Mersin Thermal Power Plant
(1974-1985)
Total
Fuel-Oil              Gross               Specific
Year           Consumed            Generation          Consumption
(tons)               (GWh)               (gr/Wkb)
1974           190,127               623.1                305.1
1975           162,146               546.4                296.8
1976           169,555               548.1                309.4
1977           200,118                651.5               307.2
1978           207,089               676.6                306.1
1979           146,358               476.5                307.2
1980           126,781                394.4               321.5
1981           173,093               544.2                318.1
1982           151,839               483.1                314.3
1983           156,989               492.4                318.8
1984           174,701                550.2               317.5
1985           174,030               551.3                315.7
Fuel Oil Prices for Mersin
(12/31/85)
From Shell - 85,841.74 TL/Ton
From Mobil - 85,841.70 TL/Ton
(04/10/85)
From Shell - 86,984.10 TL/Ton
From Mobil - 86,984.10 TL/Ton
From TPAO - 87,234.10 TL/Ton
(12/31/85)
From Shell - 114,531.40 TL/Ton
From Mobil - 114,531.40 TL/Ton
From TPAO - No purchase since April 1985



- 54 -
AME  2.4
TmL 5i m, m- A m 11_-195)
(in Gb)
1917   1918   1919   190    91    1          193    190    19 5
61.5  676.6  476.5  39 A   541.2   43.1   42.3  550.2  551.3
se*=                    410.8  423.   376.2  440.1   482   370.0  371.0  383.8   31A4
adinc  I                300.5  336.1  2989   335.3 40.0   2A   36.1  3118   315.9
Ka=c' I                 237.9  275.9   24.   270.6  338L2   26.7   2W.8  25.1   27.0
lwir                    16.0   122    9.5   12.2   16.3    1          11.0   10.6    9.1
C-s (kD  1o6,tima     11,616.7 1,71    1,35.5 1,4.5L6 1,76J.9 1,6   1,447.2 1,56.5 1,434.7
statim The               45.5   42.8   41.7   39.7   44.0   40A    42.0   44.3   40.5
illerl m G1,57n.2 1,6I             . I1,343.8 1.412.9 1,722.9 1,362.2 1,05.2 1,42.2 1,394.2
BM     nt fIm
MR                    206.5  239.5   S17i   60.5  451.0  19.0 1,174.5 1,40.0 1,53.9
Otbia                  35.7      -       - _  _  _  _  _ _
poem %pmlid to:
a(vuwn  1iqml  J     1,815.4 1,910.9 1,851.1 2,06.4 2,172.9 2,59.2 2,579.7 2,955.2 3,2481
-;1b8dseim L~            66.5   77.9   71       .4    90.6   92.9  1M.1  125.7  144.3
mm ZL EI=  g      cNC     1,748.9  1,33.0 1,789.7 1,93.0 2,012.3 2,1663 2,6 2,929.5 3,103.8
to ouKm              1,490.7 1,630.9 1,739.2 1,94.5 2,009A  2,092.1 2,25.4 2,552.8 2,799.5
to MX                 258.2   2.1   50.6   785    72         74.2   25.2  256.7  301.3
Ttal le                 112.0  1207   113.1  12.1  1346     1333   143.   169.0  176.0
Net Pbrdms (Saks)
fzu TX                (49.7)   37.4  446.7   55.0  377.2  On.   949.3 1,216.3 1,549.6
IBEm   1 Sles QAd         0.2    9.42    6.61    6.61    8.4    4.1    7.71   13.72    9.2
Z of 111mm SRI
sVpied  C
OQu a dja                86.3  817.5   72.Z1  70.1Z   793X   60.1   5S4.     49.    4L91



- 55 -
ANNEX 2.5
TURKEY
SIR HYDROPOWER PROJECT
CEAS Electricity Sales BY Customer Group. 1978 and 1985
1978                      1985
X of     S of            Z of      S of
Industrial  Total        Industrial  Total
GWH    Sales     Sales   GWM      Sales    Sales
rNDUsrY
Textiles                        519     54                742      11
Cement                          222     23                266      16
Iron and Steel                  61       6               306       18
Food Processing                  64      7                139       8
Glass, Paper & Plastic           -7      5                 96       6
Fertilizers                      36      4                 76       5
Other                            12      1                 45       3
Total Industrial Sales      961    100        52    1670      100       54
MUNICIPALITIES                    581               31      948               30
VILLAGES                           32                2       69                 2
GOVERUIENT DEPARTMENTS             34                2       62                2
AGRICULTURE-IRRIGATION             11                 1      22                 1
MISCELLANEOUS                      12                 1      29                 1
Total Cukurova Region      1631               89    2800                90
Gross RV Sales to TEK       202               11      304               10
TOTAL CEAS sALEs                                          f30



- 56 -
ANEX 2.6
CtMoM  ur3 AS.
FaMM  GNE   hU AS M (191-9S
(in GI1)
1986   19ff   1988   199    1990   1991   1992   1993   199%
IIIr.i 5,44.0  544.   544.0  544.0  544.0  544.   54.   544.   544.0
Se,Iin                  385.0  385.0  385.0  385.0  395.0  395.0  395.0  395.0  385.0
ImKinCi 1               314.0  314.0  314.0  314.0  31q.0  314.0  314.0  314.   314.0
MKIfm& 3ik              247.0  247.0  247.0  247.0  247.0  247.0  247.0  247.0  247.0
y1gmar                   13.0   13.0   13.0   13.0   13.0   13.0   13.0   13.0   13.0
-  a     n       -        -      -      -       -      - a
CaS Giog Gain          1,5M4.0 1,50.0 1548.0 1,50.0 1,58.0 2,25.0 2250    50 2s44.0
Statimi U.               43.0   43.0   43.0   43.0   43.0   51.0   51.0   51.0   51.0
cm8 1  G TMw          1,450.0 1,460.0 1.460.0 1,60.0 1.460.  2,177.0  2,377.0  2,T1.0 2,177.0
132,5.0 2,643.0 3,1M.0 3,569.0 3,962.0 3,98L.0 44400  14933.0 51,34.0
Thezg Mwplied to:
(hbAva Degioil Nditwk 3,725.0 4,108.0 49561.0 5,029.0 5,422.0 6,158.0 6,617.0 7,110.0 7,617.0
frammimsCo 1bse         149.0  164.0   1.   231.0 17.0  246.0  265.0  294.0  305.0
TMIA       SW9(1 Er (Vh  3,576.0 3,   4.0 ,39.0 4,38.0 5,235.0 5,T.0 6,35.M2.0 6,8.0=.  7,312.0
to l xau             3,15.0 3,439.0 3,779.0 4u12.0 4,505.0 4    o912.0 5,352.  5s85.0 631l.O
to 7TK                450.0   500.0  600.0  700.0  700.0 1,D00.0 1,000.0 1,000.0 1,000.0
Total bums              192.0  207.0  225.0 235.0  260.0  291.0  316.0  335.0  356.0
]let N"r *ausI. ($ales)
IX111C  1,815.0 2,143.0 2,501.0 2,869.0 35,2.0 2,981.0 3,440.0 3,933.0 4,440.0
Di1491 sale.s G          15.22   10.2Z   11.22   10.3    7.3   13.6    7.4    7.52    7.12
Z of Rqimis Sales
Suppisi by CMS
ola (o?eetim             39.2-  35A.Z   32.01   29.01   26.91   35.4   32.91   30.61   28.61



- 57 -
ANNE 2.7
rnr
am -famon PIMM
-U A              m xvm m    (196-15%)
19191    1S      1915    196    l91D    19111    19119    390    159        1592    1593    1994
m 1                                 1 106  IN  106    10       1       106      306     106      106      16      16       106
S,lm                         6D       60       60      so       Go       a       60       60       60      60       a        60
Yaiiucik                     70       70       70      70       70       70      70       70       70      70       70       70
1AMOd l                      56 X      6       56      56       S6       S6      S6       56       S6      56       S6       56
-rqir                         6        6        6       6        6        6       6        6        6       6        6        6
Sir                           -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -     283    283        283     283
_hEllk                       192     192      192      192     192      l92      192     192     475      475      475     475
Ind       4     yho         79      7 296     296      296     296      29       36        6SB   581    58        581     581
Rq 1   *i     1_            414      41       50       Sl      635      700      763 fin          911     911D    103    1148
2 oEf Uqimi
- b by OXO
-atu1d Cb.et               72.U    61*S   59AZ    51.         46.6    42.     39.11   35.       64.4Z  59.3Z  54.7Z  50.6Y



-58-
ANN   2.8
TURKEY
SIR HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Ogankbonl Chart d Culk      Ekidk AS.
0         1
1fwnifv &
Other~ than SiI ukeu-ek
R hg    W 
Cw| GMawm(3) 
vw X. I H
|   T&                    2 ~~~~~~~VJf



- 59 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 1 of 7
TURKEY
SIR HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Technical Assessment of the Dam and the Powerhouse (Component A)
General
1.       Origin of the Prolect Component: The proposed Sir dam on the Ceyhan
River is in  arumnucaras Province and is about 36 km by road from the
provincial capital of Rahra m   ras   The Ceyhan River is in the south-central
part of Turkey and flowing in a southerly direction joins the Mediterranean
Sea. The initial Ceyhan River Basin Mbater PLan Studies were started by DSI
in the year 1966. The Master Plan divided the Ceyhan River Basin into Upper,
Central, and Lower partx (Attachment 1). The Upper Basin Development Plan
consists of the Karakus and Adatepe irrigation dams (under design) and the
Kandil dam (under planning) for power generation. The Central Basin
Development Plan consists of the Kartalkaya irrigation dam (in operation), the
Menzelet multi-purpose (irrigation and power) dam (under construction) and a
small run of the river Ceyban hydropower plant (in operation). The Lower
Basin Development Plan consists of: (a) the Rozan and Kesiksuyu irrigation
dams (in operation); (b) the Ceyban-Aslantas multipurpose dm (in operation,
Bank Loan/Credit 883/360-Tr); (c) the Savrun and Sarikiz irrigation dams
(under planning); and (d) the Sir and Duzkesme dams for power generation
(under Ceyhan-Berke scheme). EIE started the Ceyhan-Berke feasibility study
in the year 1975 for the development of the upper portion of the lower basin
lying between the Nen elet dm and the Ceyhan-Aslantas dam. The study,
completed in the year 1979, considered thirteen alternatives at seven dam
sites and found that the combination of the Sir and Duskesme dams was the most
economical solution. A further optimization, fixed the storage level of the
Sir dam at 440 m and that of Duzkesme dam at 345 m. The feasibility study
also considered the reservoir operation to determine: (a) the installed
capacity at the Sir and Duzkesme (Berke) powerhouses; and (b) the most
economical diameter of the Duzkesme tunnel. Further, three alternatives were
considered for the size and the number of units to be installed at the Sir dam
powerhouse; and three units each of 91 NW capacity (revised to 94.5 after
completion of the detailed design) were found to be the optimum solution.
Since the water releases from the upstream Nenzelet dam (under construction)
considerably affect the Ceyhan-Berke scheme, eight variations on the quantity
of water released and timing of completion of irrigation facilities of the
Menzelet dam were considered for optimizing the above [(a) and (b)] parameters.
2.       The Bank's Review of the Scheme: Based on the conclusions of the
feasibility study, EIE completed the final design documents and technical
specification for the bidding documents in the year 1983. The-final design
divided the Ceyhan-Berke scheme in two phases:
(a) Phase I - the Sir dam and the powerhouse; and
(b) Phase 2 - the Duxkesme dam and the powerhouse at Berke.



- 60 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 2 of 7
The final design proposed thin arch concrete dams at Sir and Duzkesme (located
about 7 km downstream of the Sir dam). The powerhouse for the Sir dam was an
outdoor type located near the toe of the dam, while that for the Duzkesme dam
was an underground type located at Berke and connected to the dam with a
seven-meter diameter tunnel about 11 km in length. The installed capacities
propcsed at Sir and Duzkesme (Berke) were 273 MW (3 x 91 NW) and 168 MW
(3 x 56 MW), respectively.  The Bank's consultants of the preappraisal team
reviewed the final design prepared by EIE. The Bank's consultants commented
that the second phase of the scheme (the Duzkesme dam and the Berke
powerhouse) needed further investigations-especially the areas of the tunnel
and the powerhouse-for proper estimation of its costs. This phase is not
included in the present project.
3.       The Redesign of the Project Component:  The Bank's consultants, while
agreeing that the first phase of the scheme (the Sir dam and the powerhouse)
was in an advanced stage for appraisal and that the site conditions (a narrow
valley with very hard rock) were ideal for locating a thin arch concrete dam,
suggested certain modifications to the design and layout-specially of the dam
and the powerhouse-to bring down the costs for the component. CEAS,
therefore, appointed (contract signed on May 23, 1985) engineering
consultants, Coyne et Bellier (C&B), France according to the Bank's Guidelines
to: (i) review the final design of EIE for the first phase; (ii) to carry out
the dam redesign based on the suggestions of the Bank's consultants;
(iii) assist CEAS in inspection of the Equipment during manufacture; and
(iv) to assist CEAS in engineering and supervision of the project component
during construction and commissioning. The redesign carried out by C&B was
reviewed by the experts of the Bank follow-up mission in August 1985.  The
Bank's consultants confirmed that the proposed redesign was technically and
economically superior to the previous design and reduced the estimated cost of
the civil works by 20X. The volume of concrete in the dam was reduced from
420,000 m3 to 310,000 m3, and the volume of the excavation was reduced
from 410,000 mi3 to 320,000 m3. The crest length of the arch was reduced
from 357 m to 325 m. By locating the switchyard at the top of the powerhouse,
it was possible to locate the turbines closer to the toe of the dam, and the
length and diameter of the penstock was reduced from 155.7 m and 5.3 m to
65.5 m and 4.8 m, respectively. The penstock redesign also reduced the head
loss and, therefore, increased the net head for the turbines by about 3 a
which resulted in increased installed capacity of each unit from 91 MW to
94.5 MW and total annual generation by 18 million kWh. The spillway is now
better located, and the volum  of excavation for the spillway has been reduced
from 360,000 m 3 to 95,000 mi'. The dam shape-decrease in the central
angle at the crest and at lower levels from 120- to 84e-improved thne
foundation stability conditions (especially those of the left bank). Redesign
made other improvements, such as relocation of the bottom outlet gate,
elimination of the lift attached to the downstream face of the dam, equipping
spillway with stop logs, and provision of ring gates for the turbines, which
would assist in better operation and maintenance of the dam and the
powerhouse. Attachment 2 gives the general layout of the redesigned dam.



- 61 -
ANNME 3.1
Page 3 of 7
GeologY
4.       Dam Site.  The Sir dam's axis is located in the narrow asymmetrical
"V" shaped section of the Ceyhan River which rung north-south at the dam
site. The arch dam, intakes, penstock supports, powerhouse, and spillway are
to be founded on the bedrock which consists of light colored, medium grained,
quartz veined, well-cemented and interlocked grains of quartzite and quartzose
sandstone of Cambrian age. The major geological structures are a
strongly-marked stratification and faults. Stratification is the primary
direction of weakness. It strikes diagonally across the site and dips
upstream and towards the right bank at moderate angles (30--500 below the
horizontal). The quartzite is limited by the major Sir gopru reverse fault
(generally dipping 701-80 upstrea ) crossing the river about lCO m upstream
from the dam. The upstream part of the fault is composed of dark gray,
fine-grained foliated phyllite overlaid with quartzite of Cambrian age. There
is no obvious indication of recent movement of this fault, and it is
considered inactive; as are all other lesser secondary faults in the east-west
direction at the site. Detailed geological investigations were carried out at
the dam site. Nine adits with a total length of about 720 u were driven at
different elevations, and seven vertical and 15 inclined core-drill holes with
a total length of about 3,500 m were drilled for investigation of the
geological properties of the rock. Lugeon permeability tests were performed
in all the drill holes at two-meter intervals. Geological and related
investigations also included geological mapping, seismic refraction,
geophysical profiling, and testing of rock in situ and in the laboratory.
These investigations indicate that in the right abutment the line of arch in
plan would be parallel to the strike of the bedding, whereas in the left
abutment the thrust is roughly at right angles to the strike. It in clear
from the geological conditions that, in general, the stability of the left
bank is determined by the dip of the strata, and some of the interbedding
which has a silty clay infilling (30- angle of friction). Therefore, care
must be taken to keep excavations on the left bank to the minimum and to take
suitable precautions (such as rock bolting and anchoring) to stabilize the
quartzite beds in the left bank. The dip of the quartzite on the right bank
is towards the mountain and does not pose problems indicated for the left
bank. The Bank's consultants (preappraisal and follow-up mission) reviewed
the investigations carried out and concluded that the rock at site is adequate
(or could be made adequate with suitable treatment) for the structures
proposed at the dam site. The experts also suggested additional site
iuvestigations which have been carried out by CEAS.
5.       Reservoir Watertightness.  The Sir dam reservoir area consists of
(i) Cambrian quartzite; (i) Silurian phyllite; (ii) Triassic calc-schist and
limestone; (iv) Jurassic-Cretaceous limestone; (v) Eocene conglomerate,
(vi) Miocene molasse mudstone, sandstone, conglomerate and shale; and
(vii) Quaternary terrace conglomerate and alluvium. EIE carried out
geological investigations and concluded that it does not expect water leakages
from the Sir reservoir because:
(a) the Ceyhan valley is the deepest drainage axis of the region and is
surrounded by high mountains forming very wide divides between the
reservoir and the adjacent lower drainage areas;



- 62 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 4 of 7
(b) a significant part of the reservoir is within hydro-geologically
impervious lithologies such as phyllites, calc-schist, and molasse;
(c) the karstic Jurassic-Cretaceous limestone outcrop, which is in
contact with the reservoir (in very limited sections), is surrounded
by impervious formations of Silurian and Triassic ages;
(d) the northern part of the pervious Eocene conglomerate is overlaid by
the thick Miocene sedimentary rocks and western and southern parts of
the Eocene conglomerate (up to an elevation of about 1,000 m) is
surrounded by the impervious basement and triassic rocks;
(e) there is no water-bearing fault line on a regional scale;
(f) ground water levels at both banks of the dam site are above the river
level; and
(g) the grout curtain at the Sir dam site would effectively prevent
possible leakages through the quartzite around the dam.
6.       Slope Stability Around the Reservoir.  EIE have carried out the
geological survey of the reservoir area, and the engineering consultants have
also visited the area and specially considered the following two types of
sliding from the reservoir banks which would affect the safety of the Sir dam:
(a) large volumes of rock mass suddenly plunging into the reservoir and
creating a shock-wave against the dam and
(b) large volumes of loose material sliding into the narrower parts of
the valley and creating a temporary barrier that could store a large
quantity of water which, on sudden release, could create a shock-wave
similar to (a) above.
On the basis of the field data gathered, C&B concluded that the landslides
described in (a) and (b) are not anticipated in the vicinity of the dam site,
and any upstream landslides further away from the dam site would not affect
the safety of the dam. The Bank's consultants reviewed the available
information on the watertightness and slope stability. While accepting that
there is a high degree of confidence in the integrity of the reservoir, the
Bank's consultants recommended that further data on the reservoir area be
gathered. This information was collected and has been taken into
consideration in the detailed project design.
7.       Foundation Treatment.  The redesign allows for the necessary classes
of excavation, including controlled blasting and final exposure of rock
surface without blasting. Protection of excavated surfaces (including high
and steep walls of dam foundation excavation) is by rock bolting, anchoring,
shotorete and other methods. Specific allowances of 25X in the quantity
estimates for excavations and 5S for concrete have been included by the C&B
and are reasonable.



- 63 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 5 of 7
8.       Subsurface Treatment. The Bank's consultants reviewed the redesign
proposal of grout and drainage curtains and considered the proposals to be
satisfactory. C&B proposed locating the grouting curtain at the toe of the
dam inclined upstream at about 300 to the vertical so that the curtain crosses
the zone of compressed rock. This would substantially prevent cracking of
grout curtain which normally in the case with the vertical grout curtain. The
Bank's consultants, accepting the advantage of the proposed system, suggested
that the possible uplift forces beneath the foundations due to the water
between the upstream face of the dam and the row of the inclined grout
curtains at the toe of the dam, should be considered for the design of the
dam. The Bank's consultants reviewed and accepted the drainage curtain layout
proposed by C&B.
Seismicity
9.       The Bank's consultants reviewed the available data and recomnended
updating of the study of ambient seismicity carried out by EIE so as to
include any earthquake event that might have occurred since 1978. The Bank's
consultants further recommended that the faults in the vicinity of the dam and
the reservoir area should be examined to determine whether they might still be
active. These studies have been carried out and the results have been taken
into account in the detailed dam design. Microseismic measurements in the
vicinity of the dam site are also being made in accordance with the
recommendations of the Bank's consultants. C&B completed the preliminary
static analysis of the dam based on peak horizontal ground acceleration of 190
cm/s7 (normal earthquake) and 300 cm/s2 (maximum earthquake). The Bank's
consultants felt that the method adopted for static analysis, though
conservative, is acceptable. Dynamic analysis of the dam under seismic
conditions has also been carried out satisfactorily by C&B.
Hydrologr
10.      The catchment area of the Sir and Duakesme dams covers the whole
Upper and Middle Ceyban River basins (para. 2 of Annex 3.1). Maximum
elevation of the catchment area is 3,090 m and the minimum is 288 m at
Duzkesme dam profile. Average annual precipitation (snow and rain) for the
catchment area is about 612 um--50X from December to February, 30S from March
to May, 5% from June to August and 15S from September to November. Majority
of flood occurs in March-April from concurrent snowmelt and rainfall. The
catchment area for the Sir dam is about 13,000 km2 and the average annual
runoff is between about 4,500 to 3,700 million m3 depending on the releases
from the Menzelet multipurpose dam under construction. The dam is scheduled
for completion in the year 1986, however, completion of irrigation facilities
could take another 9 to 10 years. Analysis of sedimentation in the reservoir
area indicates an operating lifetime well in excess of 50 years. The
completion of the upstream Menzelet dam will further assist in the reduction
of sedimentation in the reservoir.
11.      For the design of the dam and its spillway, EIE had used peak inflow
flood of 7,876m3/s (without the Menzelet dam) and 6,630 m3/s (with the
Menzelet dam). C&B reviewed the calculations (based on the maximum probable



- 64 -
ANNM   3.1
Page 6 of 7
flood method) and recommended to use, instead, the figures of 10,888 and
9,220, respectively. This revision has the effect of raising the maximum
reservoir level from 442 m to about 444 a. For calculating peak outflow from
the diversion tunnel, the redesign used a ten-year period return flood of
1,727 m3/s instead of 1,648 *3/S assumed in the EIE design.  The Bank's
consultants reviewed and accepted the figures proposed by C&B.
Construction Materials
12.      CEAS and the engineering consultants supplemented the previous
investigation carried out by EIE. The Bank's consultants reviewed the
available information and observed that, in general, adequate quantities of
suitable concrete aggregates from areas 5 to 25 km from the dam site are
available; however, the Bank's consultarts recommended that additional
investigations to be carried out before issuing the bid documents for the
civil works. The Bank's consultants also reviewed the available information
on cement from Gaziantep, Iskenderun and Adana cement factories and concluded
that Gaziantep cement factory, which is the nearest to the dam site, can
furnish pozzolan cement suitable for the arch dam.
Safety of the Dam
13.      Instrumentation:  The instruments proposed in the EIE study for the
observation of the structural behavior at the dam and hydraulic performance of
the dam foundations (including proposed modifications by C&B) were reviewed by
the Bank's consultants. The Bank's consultants agreed with the instruments
provided. However, the Bank's consultants strongly recommended that the data
from the instruments provided for controlling the dam behavior and those
measuring various effects (including the plumb-line displacements, filtration
flows and pore pressures), should be converted into electrical signals for
automatic measurements. Such measurements should be frequent and a computer
should be used for calculating, interpreting and storing the results. C&B are
incorporating the experts' recommendations in the final dam design.
14.      Inspection of the Dam During Construction:  CEAS have appointed an
International Board of Experts, acceptable to the Bank, to advise CEAS on the
problems arising during construction (including those connected with the
safety of the dam and associated structures) and to review the project's
construction progress by visit to the dam site at regular intervals. The
International Board of Experts will specially monitor the safety of: (a) the
dm and associated structures; (b) the diversion and access tunnels; and
(c) the dam reservoir area.
15.      Inspection of the Dam During ODeration.  DSI conducts regular
inspections of all the dams in the country and mostly follows practices of the
U.S. Bureau of Reclamation. Annual inspections are conducted by the DSI
regional division in whose territory the dam is located. To ensure proper
coordination, CEAS has associated DSI representatives with the project
component during the review of the redesign by the Bank's experts.



- 65 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 7 of 7
Hydraulic Model Test
16.      The redesign carried out by C&B modified the spillway.  To minimize
excavation in the left bank, the spillway is now displaced by about 25 m
towards the valley so that half the spillway id supported on the dam concrete
superstructure. The ski-jump is made wider 33.4 m against 26 m of EIE design,
and is designed with a variable angle to the bucket so that the impact zone at
full flow is elongated along the axis of the river. C&B and CEAS will carry
out the hydraulic model test of the spillway by October 1986 to check its
proper functioning and will modify the spillway if necessary.
Generation
17.      The generation at the Sir das powerhouse is affected by the water
released for agricultural purposes from the upstrem Menzelet multipurpose dam
under construction. The Menzelet dam is scheduled to be completed in the year
1986. It is estimated that it would take at least 9 to 10 years to complete
the irrigation facilities to be provided from the Menzelet dam. Without the
provision of irrigation facilities at the Menzelet dam, the annual generation
of electricity at Sir dam is estimated at about 725 GWh; and with the full
irrigation development at the Menzelet dam, the generation would be reduced,
on an average, to 550 GWh.
Land Acquisition
18.      The reservoir for the Sir dam covers 48 kma of surface area and
would affect nine villages having about 7,000 inhabitants. Houses in the
locality are mostly built with sun-dried bricks, stones and briquettes and
farms consist of small scattered pieces of land with produce mostly for self
consumption. Most of the affected land is govervneAt-owned. About 5,000
hectares will need to be acquired under the provisions of the Expropriation
Law of 1983. CEAS has already acquired the 100 hectares which will be
affected by the access road, construction camp and dam construction. Mapping
and documentation of remaining landholdings is in progress and a p.. -s. of
land acquisition is being prepared. CEAS has agreed to acquire the * .essary
land in accordance with a timescale agreed with the Bank.
General Characteristics
19.      The general characteristics of the project component are given in
Attachment 1 through 3 to the Annex 3.1.



Annex 3.1
*1      ~~~66~                          Ata 
_   ~     ~~   U    IF I                             -
:;_jlim'                I 'a
II  U A     .    1 
I   , |   g    .    |    |    .    ,l              -XW~~~~~~~~~~I .q
Ja~~~~~~
|            ' ~~~~~i ,!    -J                      I    -e -  E
L                                          III\;    N
:'
25~~~~~~~~                       



.4.  %   041                           I                    %~~~~  I.l aI
I.'..~~S&M   A
I wr                                          7      fI
Ca?~~*          
4-                                                   I                                  /~~~~~"rA
am                                                   Nmissm~~~~~~PM          *                 /SI
m~~~mM1w.E1.~~~~~~A
.0                     OFILLWAI                    h~~~~ **2     ~
.,P                                                      40axwm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~121
SI4 AA  flwcu o  ATA
-0.  110 DAM  A#10 IITLR".B6'fRk; NX.VER FLA
op~~~~~~~*~4I/* 
11 jo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~
ol. a rw so. 



- 68 -
AM=l 3.1
Attachment 3
Page 1 of 4
TURKEY
SIR HYDROPOWER PROJECT
General Characteristics of the Proiect Comnwonent
Unit                   Description
1.  Location                         -               On the Ceyhan River
2.  Catchment Area                   k2                12,950
3. Average Annual Discharge           10IM3             4,580 (without Menzelet
irrigation
developmnt)
4. Peak Inflow Design Flood          a'/s               9,220
for the Dam Spillway Design
5. Construction Peak Inflow            3/S              1,727
Flood (on 10-year return
period)
Reservoir
6.  Maxi=j. Flood Level               X                   443.9
7. Full Supply Level                 a                    440.0
8. Reservoir Area                     km2                  48
(at fully supply level)
9. Gross Storage Capacity             10o.6             1,120
10. Effective Storage Capacity        10s"                720
Diversion Tunnel
1.  Location                                         Left Bank
2.  Length                            m                   431
3.  Diameter                          m                     10.78
4. Excavation                         m3                65,000



- 69 -
AMU 3.1
Attacheent 3
Pag 2 of 4
Unit                   Description
The Dam
1.  Type                                            Double Curvature Arch
2.  Crest Elevation                 m                    445
3.  Height                          m                    120  (aboe. the
feamdations)
4.  Crest Length                    o                    325
5. Upstream Radii at Center
(a)  Crest                      m                    120
(b) Middle                      m                     70
6. Upstream Radii at Left and
Right Abutment
(a)  Crest                      m                    388
(b) Middle                      m                    247
7. Central Angle                    degrees               84
8. Thickness of Crown Cantilever
(a) Crest                       m                      5.0
(b)  Middle                     m                     14.6
(c)  Bottom                     m                     17.5
9.  Excavation                      m3               320,000
10. Concrete                        m3               310,000
11. Intake Levels
(a)  Top                        m                    384.5
(b)  Bottom                     m                    339.0
12. Spillway
(a)  Type                                       Gated Surface Spillway +
Chut and Flip Bucket
(b)  MDaximzm Discharge         m3/s               7,460
(c)  Length                     m                    140
(d)  Excavation                 m3                95,000
(e)  Concrete                   m'                82,000
(f)  No. of Gates               unit                   3
(g)  Type                                       Radial
(h)  System of Energy                           S Ski-jump
Dissipation
(i) Width of the Ski-jump       u                     33.4



- 70 -
ANNEX 3.1
Attachment 3
Page 3 of 4
Unit                   Description
13. Power Intakes
(a)  Power Intake Gate           m                    384.5
Sill Level
(b)  Bottom Level                m                    339
(turbine end)
(c)  Length of the Penstock      m                     65.5
(d) Diameter                     m                      4.8
14. Bottom Outlet
(a) Height x Width               m x m          4.0 x 5.0
(b) Maximum Discharge            m3l'                 700
The Powerhouse
1. Type                               2             outdoor
2. Excavation                        m              Included in the Dam
Excavation
3. Concrete                          m'                60,000
4. Number of Units                   unit                   3
5. Type of turbine                   -              Vertical Shaft Francis
6. Headwater Elevations
(a) Maximum flood                m                    443.90
(b) Normal                       m                    440.00
(c) Yearly average               h                    438.40
(d) Yearly mdinmum               a                    434.91
(e) Absolute minimum             a                    418.80
7. Tailrace Elevations
(a) Maximum normal               m                    345.38
(3 sets' full
discharge and
Duzkesme reser-
voir full)
{b) Minimum s                                         342.75
(1 sets' full
discharge with
Duzkesme reser-
voir empty)
8. Net head
(a) Maximum                      m                      96.25
(b) Nominal                      m                      93.62
(c) Design                       m                      92.42
(d) Yearly minimum               m                      88.52
(e) Absolute minimum             m                      72.42



- 71 -
ASNEX 3.1
Attachment 3
Page 4 of 4
Unit                   Description
9. Rated discharge!turbine
(a)  At maximum head             m3/                  114.25
(b) At design head              m*/s                  113.50
(c)  At absolute                 m3/s                 100.50
minimum head
10. Output/turbine                   MW                    94.5
11. Rated speed                       rpm                 200
12. Expected Efficiency
(a)  At maximum head             Z                     91.5
(b) At design head               2                     92.0
(c)  At absolute                 2                     86.6
minimum head
13. Generator
(a) Rated power Factor           unit                   0.9 lagging
(b)  Type                                        Vertical shaft, Three-
Phase, Synchronous
(c) Rated Voltage                kV                    15.75
(d) Frequency                    HZ                    50
14. Generator Step-up Transformers
(a) Numbers                      Unit                   3
(b)  Rated Capacity/             MVA                  105
Transformer
(c)  Rated Secondary             kV                   154
Voltage
15. Switchyard
(a)  Voltage                     kV                   154
(b)  Type                                        SF6 with Gas Insulated
Busbar System.
16. Annual Energy Production
(a)  Firm Output (before          GWh                 408.4
upstream development)
(b)  Firm Output (with            GWh                 311.8
upstream development)
(c) Normal Output (before         GWh                  724.9
upstream development)
(d) Normal Output (with           GWh                 550 (average)
upstream development)



- 72 -
ANNMX 3. 2
TRKE
SIR N!DROPOIER -PROJECT
Transmission Lines and Substations (Prolect component B)
1.      The project component includes:
(a) about 30 km of transoission lines to connect the Sir dam powerhouse
switchyard with TER's existing National Grid System;
(b) about 320 km of sub-tranmission lines (154kV and below) and about
570 KVA of transformer capacities at its CEAS (existing and planned)
substation required for meeting the CEAS regional system's demand up
to the year 1995.
2.      The list of the sub-transmission lines and substations included in
the project component are given in Attachment to this Annez.



- 73 -
AIEU 3.2
Attacb nt
nEET
SIR IEOPOIE  ?ROJKCT
List of Subtranswissiou Lines and Substations
I. Subtrans-ission Lines                                 Length in km
1.   hdaa-Ceyban                                          24.0
2.   Payaa-Iskenderun-2                                    7.0
3.   Antakya-Iskendurn-2                                  57.0
4.   Catalan-Dikili                                       30.0
5.   Akkuyu-Tasucu                                        34.5
6.   Adana-Incirlik                                       32.0
7.   Ersin-Iskenderun-2                                   74.2
S.   Admna-Misis                                          14.0
9.   Mkbelen-Tarsus-2                                     25.0
10.   Zediucik 2 - Tarsus-2                                19.0
316.7
II. Substations
Additional
Transformer
Canacity in MA
1.    Iskeuderun-2                                        100
2.   Timutalik
3.   Kurzey Adna                                           64
4.  ffarasiali                                             16
5.   Antakya                                                -
6.   Kadincik-2                                             -
7.  DNW1,                                                   -
8.   Payas                                                 32
9.   Incirlik                                              32
10.   Zeytiuli                                              50
11.   Akbelen                                               50
12.   Ceyban                                                48
13.   Seyban                                                80
14.   HiAts                                                 50
15.   Trsus-2                                               50
572



- 74 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
SIR HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Technical Assistance (Project Component C)
I. Studies
1.      Hersin Thermal Power Plant Rehabilitation Study. The Nersin thermal
power plant is located on the Mediterranean coast near the Atas refinery at
Mersin. The power station, with an installed capacity of 106 NW (four 26.5-MW
units), annually generates about 550 GWh of electricity and consumes about
175,000 tones of fuel oil. The power station was commissioned prior to the
world oil crisis of the year 1974 (Units 1 and 2 in the year 1966 and Units 3
and 4 in the year 1969) and did not include energy efficient design of the
equip ent. Further, the specific fuel oil consumption has gradually
deteriorated from 305 gms/kWh (gross) in the year 1974 to 317.5 gms/kWh
(gross) in the year 1984. The aim of the study is to examine ways and means
to economically generate (net) maxismm electricity from the quantity of fuel
presently being consumed in the power station. The study will be completed in
two phases. The first phase would examine: (a) suitability of the existing
equipent for rehabilitation; (b) suitability for combining the present
equipment (partly or wholly) with additional equipment such as combustion
turbines, and slow speed diesel engines to improve the performance of the
power station; and (c) the economics of the various possible alternatives to
arrive at the least-last solution for the power station. The second phase of
the study will be taken up after review of the first phase proposals by the
Bank. The second phase of the study will provide for:
a)   the engineering design;
b)  preparation of the technical specifications for the bid packages, and
c)  assistance to CEAS in bid invitation and bid evaluation process.
The project component includes cost of about 30 expert-man-months(for both the
phases), and the study is estimated to be completed in a period of about six
months from the award of the consultancy contract.
2.      Additional Generation Study for Serhan Hydropower Station.  Seyhan
hydropower station has an installed capacity of 60 NW (three 20-MW units).
The first two units were commissioned in the year 1956 and the third unit was
commissioned in the year 1964. The existing units are not able to utilize
completely the water released for irrigation, and additional generation is
possible by installation of a bulb turbine unit (of about 20 NW) in the power
station. The study will be completed in two phases. The first phase will
examine: (a) the quantity of water available for additional generation; (b)
the existing layout of the power station; (c) the appropriate type and size of
the proposed additioral unit, (d) the economics of various alternati-es to
arrive at the least-cost solution for the power station. The second phase of
the study will be taken up after review of the first phase proposal by the
Bank. The second phase of the study will provide for: (a) the engineering



- 75 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 2 of 2
design; (b) preparation of technical specifications for the bid packages; and
(c) assistance to CEAS in bid invitation and bid evaluation process. The
project component includes cost of about 10 expert man-months (for both the
phases) and is expected to be completed in four months after the award of the
consultancy contract.
3.       Study of Runner Problems at Kadincik II Hydropower Station.  The
power station consists of a Francis turbine of 56-MW capacity. The power
station is experiencing problems regarding the runner of the turbine. A
study, therefore, will be undertaken to: (a) identify the runner problems (b)
suggest various possible solutions (c) com pare economics of various solutions;
and (d) recommend the least-cost solution for the problem. The study would
require about six expert-man-months and would be completed in about three to
four months after award of the consultancy contract.
4.       Study for Transmission of Power Over the National Grid System.  The
study will determine the most economic way of transmitting Sir (and later
Berke) power generation taking into consideration: (i) the CEAS future
requirements of additional subtransmission lines and substation facilities in
the service region to meet its demand up to the year 1995; (ii) TEK's existing
and planned transmission facilities in the vicinity of CEAS service region;
and (iii) the possibility of "wheeling" power from the Project over TEK's
transmission lines. CEAS and TEK have agreed to implement the recommendations
of the study. CEAS will appoint consultants for the study, acceptable to the
Dank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The study is
estimated to require about 35 expert man-months and is estimated to be
completed in about four months from the award of the consultancy contract.
II. Training
5.       CEAS will be ezpanding its construction and operational facilities in
the near future. rt in therefore essential that proper training facilities
are provided to ensure timely availability of trAined personnel in the
administrative, technical, and financial disciplines of the organization. It
is accordingly proposed to update the technical expertise in: (a) load
dispatch; (b) load met; (c) computer system applications; (d) project
planning; (e) financial        e t; and (f) manpower planning and training.
About 21 man-months for training abroad of CEAS' staff in the above fields is
provided. CiAS will submit to the Bank for its reviewbio-data of staff
proposed for the traiaing.
III. Training and Computer Equipment
6.       To augment CEAS' existing training equipment the component provides
about US$450,000 for procurement of: (a) audio-visual training equipment,
(b) personal computers including hardware and software; and (c) hardware and
software required for upgrading of CEAS' existing IBM 4300 computer facilities.



6~~~~~
m                        a -
--~~~~~~~~~~~ - 
-   -   -    m                                                             -   - m                     -
- - - -                    M  m -                   m  - - - -    -                                    m             .
t.~~~~nr                S Rm,        S i."       6" ,II       S S,*        S     6      S  _      _      _     _              _ __ _ _  
5. 4I_              au       S  I61  i.ig  5.56g  1w    ?s   ..    me5U~im~gjn  i,*   i.n,  *.mM U    .,m  MiQ  A
|,,* _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s  u_/m   mm, a.m.  aw  ---
&  i.a  am.,.  * uj.w  .me ~~U.m  4.ua.in n*~  ~Wgm IS.~  sawim  sum  ~ea.m  sum  i.e.-  .m.m  am.m uem    i    m=.....
*. _iu  ,._
14.~zin. I-'  -        S     S  m.   *gm  iU,ni  MISUM  t.1U    Z   1,559.3~^C      "A   a...   MM   0e1.                 "t ao am.  mm
n  -           g     g  ~~~~~~~~~~~WXi   ^M    Sa:  ,M'   's,e Alm.   54=   =.   I=     'ji'm  Pin.u   wn  emao   US.sNJ,    ai
L._.                   5  *    m.    mm   USES awa,. am.. sum   *.... a.m.m  a.m.a uu.m  a. uWl vmimns a..w  u.n..m 1       .    i    Imu
.                                  l                               3   - I                             .W
D     S   As    mm    a        ,   Ii      m             g =  _-*-m   It:
uab                                 5     5 i        ,8    mm   n.    am   3.e   aF   n.m           .     aS   3.8   UI.   1 .33
#~~~~                      i.e   mm   su    m.    u,,r   1u   Jm  ,-u    as   am              a     *            a_ em    iiu.
mm.   .   n.m  in..  in..  ups   em   m,m   ins n.  D.W   sa                 *     * @m  us.. @m.m
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3M                                    ~  jt    UtR  401 16  0,lJS    ^1" iJ M  tN # @  | U 1 
*         mm         3.5MW    1 ,m,m           5.e.        ?.m.in  ,1mm101  T,.                         W,
/a  Difference between 1985 expenditure expressed in July 1986 prices and expenditure actually Incurred                                 a.
(based on 1985 Inflation rates for T* and US$ costs of. respectively. 43.22 and 1.32).
K  __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



I. mm  ~ ~        ~       ~        ~       ~      ~      i            V. L
A. VXAID ~ ~ ~ ~          ~           ~          ~          ~           ~          ~         ~          ~         ~          u nga 
IL1i .C941ti                         1"        0   $,05        0   4,05        0   5,93        0   4,m         0       0       0       a       0       0        0   3,43        0  3.05
2: n.      I W*..                  3,8"        0  loom         a       0       a       a       a       a       a       a       a       a       a       a        0 14,3          114,Am
3. CvIl *AN                          6"I       0     193   3,570   Gm1    3,411  10,011   5,5s    6,61    4,730   5,6s3  3,m    3,03   1,01   1,465           15   5,5m  u,iu   nows
6-  1*4m                             a      it      m0      I5      14      in      71      Xs      mu      IN      rn      3Mt     4         0      W       wl   4,in   ,A
5. 13mbwthm alm  69dpwa               0        0       0       0     05    2,35    2.05   3,1W    s,0       s.m%   2,n    5,1W        57    2,3        a   1.315    Os"5   now   3,52
6. &At*-d Eqafwt                       0       0       0       0       0       0       79     M0      Xs6  1.739      VA    ,   I,    isI'm a.1               VI       MI   1,4      7,85
7. fti-ff  Mi W4visj               2.113       0     6O5   2,54    1,110      M4   1,05       MI   1,W        4w    1.0W      5n      S0      NI       0      73     V 6.1      N 5. 3 0,
6.Medtal                        6V69        0o  16.3    6,392  1,4-31  _6.1   ito-du  -AlM5   9-AV   53,31   9.73  12,364  4,j30   S.V46   5,043   2.15   3.4    6070 
9APInel Ck  LagmIm                     a       0   2,400     so   1,746    6VA    2,7       1,01W261   1,52   1,3V    1,39            61      746     M       31    in       ?,311 7.5 6 lwu
10.AMeAt                           6,61        0  1,641   7,672  14,091   7,33   3,430  13305   0,112  14,90   10,4U   32.1M    ),M           ?o 73 1  ,053 5,     MM,3   6,36  59,4
353dce m r    om                    (6WLa   0        395     11   l,Ox       SR    3,33    3,97    5,0    3,4%    3,315  4,35     J0WA   2,69         1M    le5s   15,09   A4M3  36,M4
12A05LA                            6.1W        0  19,035   71,3  13,141   6,165  5,75   15.W2  V,05   116,5         371 Ulm 6,114   I'm1  10,315   2,45    5.037  WI  N ow 3.        1.55
3. lm1s Wm A mUin
33.TisadimL                            0~ 0        0       0       0       0          66      m 14            so 1 3   5     6On      '       1 0               0sa 1  as   low52low
14.Mk~. Umn  & Mutw&in                 0       0      M6     36      "I   2,101   1,16    4,673   1.464   4,W7        93   3.33        15   I.=0      M 133   63            AM330   NO6W 
15AWk1                                                       M  1 3  93    2,921   2,63   4,3       1,0    5        13      4,672     so    2,52      U3      93    7,317  X.43   AM3
* miktl a16hmi                           0       0      a       so      94      M1      M6      43      190     1       125     43       so     ni       U               M913    some   son
I7.&i1                                 0       0GM463    1,'M               33      3,n 6   5.311   2,09    5,W     131      ,3       M4   2436       16WA360    3,14   Ulm4
mbiftim 0okod                                  0      10      53      so       9     14       U       45    1,3M      M     361       so      rO       a5     45    JAN6    VA4   I,=
0  0    54      647~~G   1,112   3,3 2,02    ,3    2,32   7,59    1.51   6,4             1      ,5         l 1M1961             .6 3
3.~~~~~~~m ~~~0                      0      3       M3      a       315     35      54        0       0       0       0       0       0       01      0       ii     73      a
nl.Tabft                              0        0       0       0       4      40       4      40       4      40        4      35       0      0        0       0       6      to      17n
I2.    mm0                                     0       2      M       70     3m       a       no       a       0        0      0        a      0        0       0      1       go      57
D.A1 Al                                        0      24    241       60      M3      14      14       4      40        4      35      0       0        0       0      141,431,45
26.*guM1 anhmm0                                0       2      14       6      60       5       54      0       4        0       4       0       0       0       0       13    is       i36
SdnenIm                                0       0      a6     a5       a      655      59      S9       4      4 4              39      0       0        0M0a35l69                      x.2
5.h1 mbLmmi                           0        0              6       5      Si       9      90        3      t0       I      12      0       0        0       0              No36    M4
21A1S. Ir=L                        6,643       0  30,014   6,711  11,31   12,33   v,95   2ow,65         5,779  8,614      5.3 4,02   6,110  33,1W    2,643   6,61   Iis,j   ul,=3  51
39.343 1                                       0             313            2,01            3.05            5,              71                                          0  to,05  i36,0
3Q.U0   11i                        6.646       0  3.05    9,134  16,36   14,343  V,94   25,333  29,716  30,a4  13j53  32,092   6,1I0  U3o            ,43 665731              3,5a,39
/a Difference between 1985 expenditure expressed in July 1956 prices and expenditure actually incurred
(based on 1985 inflation rates for TL and US$ costs of. respectively, 43.2Z and 1.32).



- 78 -
AMNEX 3.5
TURKEY
SIR HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year
Quarter Ending             Quarterly Disbursement    Cumulative Disbursement
1987
December 31, 1986                     9.1                           9.1
March 31, 1987                        2.8                          11.9
June 30, 1987                         3.0                          14.9
1988
September 30, 1987                    4.0                          18.9
December 31, 1987                     4.5                          23.4
March 31, 1988                        5.7                          29.1
June 30, 1988                         6.3                          35.4
1989
September 30, 1988                    6.3                          41.7
December 31, 1988                     7.0                          48.7
March 31, 1989                         7.2                         55.9
June 30, 1989                         7.5                          63.4
1990
September 309 1089                    7.7                          71.1
December 31. 1989                     8.4                          79.5
March 31, 1990                        8.4                          87.9
June 30, 1990                         8.2                          96.1
1991
September 30. 1990                     7.9                        104.0
December 31, 1990                      7.6                        111.6
March 31, 1991                        4.2                         115.8
June 30, 1991                          3.5                        119.3
1992
September 30. 1991                     3.1                        122.4
December 31, 1991                      2.9                        125.3
March 31, 1992                         2.2                        127.5
June 30, 1992                          2.1                        129.6
1993
September 30. 1992                     1.4                        131.0
December 31, 1992                      1.0                        132.0



TURKEY
SIR HYDRIPOWER PROJECT
Proiect ffalaentation Schedule ~.
_           --               ~~~~ ~ ~~~Year  les i_= =   lolSl     =        192               to a!LS_    I    lsse       I     IS              I* 
DESCRIPT20N                    Yuertar   x   I  II I IV                    J_      _hi        I         I      _L_ -   _L      I_    !       IL
A. The p. and the Pawerhousa  u
1. Praliminary iIorks
1. Temporary Roads & Bridges
- Award of Contract
- Complete Works                                 /P-PT1-/-T2------ 3__
2. awors Camp oI                                                        
-AwUard of Contract                                   /-PT1-/  /PT2
- Complte Works                                             /                                           I- |
I. miscellaneous InvestigatiansI
- Award of Contract                                                      I
- Coeplete Works                                     -----              ---
II. flivercian Tumiail/4~                                        1 
-In wite  Bids
-Award Contract                                       /-                 I -Grout                      I   I                 C.Plu|
- Camplte Works                                             T      f-a-11eon: -- |--- - |   |   |--- --
III, Civil Works A Hydrauil c out..
-IZnvite Olids                                -  -   -   -
- Award Contract                                             -----
- Complete Mobilization
- Complete Catm S facilities                                         I/-                 
- Install 0iver'n Tunnel Gate                                        I           /-/  I        |
-Complete 0/S and U/S Coffer Dam                                                  /---
(a)Mlain Dam                                                |
- CoMplete Main Damn lExn.                                                         -----
- Compleate Upentoci Penstonk Leve
- Concrete Up to Penstock Level                                                                    /------
- Complete Concreting Er-------- -  |   ||
- Camplete Drainage/Grout Curtains
Installation and Erection
PTI - Part One    Erl - Installation and Erection of Unit I Equiwment            Cl - Commission Unit 1 Equipment                                                    1
PT2 - Part Two    Er2 - Installation and Erection of untt I Equipment           C2 - Commission Unit 2 Equipment                                                      P4
PT3 - Part Three  Er3 - Installation and Erection of Unit 3 Equipment            C3 - Commission Unit 3 Equipment
LI  The schedule reflects the Borrower's estimatis  stee para. 1.6 Of the report)                                                                                      099cg
July 1986
2?46P



- Complete Jloint Grouting
- Install Intake Equipont                                                                                          ...
- Install Bottom Outlet Equi pmnt
- Comoleto Excavation                                                             -
- Cuolete Concreting                                                                          --------
- Install Gates
- C|olets Pwrheuse Access Turnal                                                     ...
-Cumipte Excavation
- Conereting to Draft Tube Level                                                              ......./ .
- Caouleto Superstructure Concrete                                                           I    /                  /    I
Complete misc. Concreting                                                                                         .         ...
- Invite aids                                               ,--/                             I
- Award Contract                                                 //                         I      InErnErr3
- Install Draft Tube Cone                                     r|/--r. a Deliver to Site-/--/--/--/
- Install Special Casing & Staying                                      /---ifr   , Deliver to Site----Irl/Ir2/Ir3/
I- nstall lnlet Ext. & Pit Liner                                                I   I    I       I        I  I
& Ring Gate                                           |/----Ifr. & Deliver to Site----/E l-/1r2--/IrI-/
- Install Wicket Gate/Oper. Ring                                                  r    -----efr  4 Deliver to Site---------------/Ir/rl/EIr/
I Install Runner and Shaft                                              /----- fr. & Deliver to Site -------------/Erl/ErI/Ir/M
- Install Thrust *earino/Governor                                    I     /-------fr. L Deliver to Site---------------------Irl/ErV/r3lI
|  Install Generator                                                    /Gej ---to ir                 ite .---In-              -/Er2I/r3/1
- Comiisstoning of units                                                    litIIl                          Il                   /9/Cf /Cf/
July 1986
2746P
1N
olo



IUREY
SIR HYDvOPaaaP Pl6OECT
V.Cieet I       tandan tt
- Invite Bids                                                                                                               I                          III 
_V.  rae  an L1dgi Hoist            _                                                                    II11111           
- Award Contract                                                          /--   -/
- Complete Installation                                                            /-Man.bOel to Site  Er/
VI.  witehvard EauinnL nt
- Install Transformers                                                           C-& Oel. to Ste -                       -       / Cl-IC2-/C3-/
- Install Switchgear                                                            /-----------Man. I Oel. to Site-------/ Cl /CZ / C3 /
- Install Common A Hisc Equipment                                                 -------Man.& Del  t  Site--/-C-- Cois ioni--/
VL-. Reservoir                                         --                                                                        ------/
Flood Season (Jan. through May)    ///I                                  /p"                                                      '
STIranAission Lines  Substat1ins    |    |
Lal Conductar and Accessories
- Invite Bids                                           - - _____ ___-| |                                  | ||-| |                           | |
-Award Contract                          II --                                          / --
- Manufacture & Delivery                      ii---/
(hi Ins1latar1s & Hardware            |   |
- Invite Bids                                              I
- Award ContraCts                                                                 - - -    /
- Manufacture  Delivery                               1II-
(a) Towers I Misc. Hatarial
- Invite lids                                         /---------/- -
- Award Contract                                                               -/--- / |
- Manufacture A Delivery/
Idl Ennineerina Consultants LTJS |                                                                                          I            I
- Invite Offers                                         -------
- Appoint Consultants                I                          Ill
_   - Codplete Bidding Doe I Design                                     | /-------~--~------                        | | | |                   0 | |  
July 1916
2746P
0M6



lua
SIR NDMYEPOIJI PROJECT
Preimet ?Avi1ntattan  eaai
Year          ess       I  lead                           =   =                 1       laL 1                                1641
_   s Lint Eraction                                                           [
Invite Bids                                                     ----- ------
-Award ContractI---
Complete Erection                                                                         -------i--i---l--l---l------------------                 I   I ---
-Invite lids/                                                                             I I
- Award Contract                                                          _-------/
Manufacture and Delivery                                   _-----------------
( a      t Sditchd oar and Cables                                                      I /|
- Invite Bids                                             /                             Ill
-Award Contract                                                            -                 ---
|   Manfacture     Celiver                                                                           --------                              ---   ----
1hi Ena11erin. consultants ISIS)                                                                                                                                             c
1te             s                                         ---------- 
- Appoin  Consultants                                I         I       /      i
-Comlete Bidding Doc & Design                                                     -------
_ A ppoihnt Catineultants                                I                              I    I   I   I                  L-L----------
- Inlite liudsy 
-Awurd  Contrlc ant
24 Co6ete   rtin
3. Kadncin  bHaydropater Study
- Appoinit Consultants                                          --- - - -/--
- Cowlete study                                                                   I
July 1986
2746P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a



TURK[
SIR HYDROJPOAR PROJECT
Praiuct 1 l1l  nt!tinn Sehadula
1 ud10w1sua1 Equ1                  lots          lan l1111                           los             los  l4l
4. Power lAeling" StLudy
PpacCodntr ctInstall  -qu-Pi-nt                        I-_------
2. Upgrad1ng Computer Facilities                          I   I           I        I          
- Obtain Ouctations                                  ----
_-Plc  Ort1Qdeora Install  Equ1ant                                                               -Gl_joj...._ .___/=  ............   __    __C
July 19"6
2746P



- 84 -
AMUI 3.7
Page 1 of 2
MRKY
SIR IYDROPOWII PROJECT
Prolect Monitoring Guidelines
1.      The monitoring guidelines given below indicate the broad requirements
and supplemnt the Borrower's obligations according to the Loan Agreement.
These requirements could be modified if circumstances so require.
General
2.      Records will be maintained giving planned against actual
achievements, to be reviewed annually or at agreed intervals, for the
following:
(a) Installed and derated generation capacity In MI for each of the power
stations and according to types (suech as hydro, thermal);
(b) Energy capability in Gib by station;
(c) Units generated in Glh by station;
(d) Station use in 6Gb by station;
(e) Purchase in Gih from TEK and other sources;
(f) Sales in Gih to TEK and other utilities;
(g) Transmission and distribution losses;
(h) Planned and forced outages (by classification) in power stations.
and in transaission and distribution networks;
(i) Sales in Gib to consumers (by categories);
(j) Number of consumers (by categories);
(k) Quality of supply to the consumers (number of interruptions.
durations classified according to causes, and voltage conditions at
the consumer end);
(1) Annual system load duration curve;
(a) Plant and load factors and plant availability;
(n) Fuel consumption for each of the units in the power stations; and



- 85 -
ANNEX 3.7
Page 2 of 2
(o) Average tariff for purchase from TEK and average sales tariff to
customers.
Proiect luplementation
3.      Records vill be maintained, shoving original schedule against actual
achievements and supplied to the Bank at agreed intervals on the following
aspects:
(a) Procurement action by bid packages (bid specifications, bid
invitation, opening of bids, bid evaluation reports, award of
contracts and signing of contract documents);
(b) Physical progress according to project components and contracts
(highlighting critical activities);
(c) Actual project costs and expenditures (local and foreign)and
estimated remaining expenditures (local and foreign); projected on an
annual basis through project completion;
(d) Disbursement schedule (for Bank loan and any other loans);
(e) Information on problems encountered during implementation (including
major mishaps), and expected impact on comuissioning schedule;
(f) Minutes of the meetings and reports of the International Board of
Consultants;
(g) Progress report on land acquisition and resettlement of those
affected by the project; and
(h) Progress report on the environmental issues connected vith the
project.



- 86 -
AM 4.1
TURY
SIR YDPOWIR PROC
Average Electricity Tariffs. 1962-1986
(TL/kUb)
Average Sales       Ixebane Tariff
Tariff to          Jetvee CEAS         Differeoce
CEAS Customers          sadTEK             (A-B)
1982
March                  6.05                 5.50               .55
June                   6.42                 5.63               .79
September              6.58                 5.87               .71
November               6.79                 6.67               .1
Yearly Average             6.43                 5.90               .53
1983
June                   9.29                  7.70             1.59
Yearly Average             8.44                 7.31              1.13
1984
January               11.88                11.00              0.88
June                  15.42                 12.00             3.42
August                15.68                 12.65             3.03
November              19.20                 13.60             5.60
Yearly Average            15.35                12.35              3.00
1985
January               21.11                 16.00             5.11
March                 26.90                 18.504L           8.40
May                   33.734L               22.154L           11.58
June                  29.14$L               22.154L           6.99
December              32.41L                25.65zz            6.76
Yearly Averag             30.73                  .59             10.14
1986
February              40.41L                29.60"            10.81
/a Including 3.52 TRT tax; excluding 10' VAT.



- 87 -
AMNEX 4.2
TURKEY
SIR HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Summiary of CEAS Tariff Schedule - 1982-1986
Two-Part          One-Part Tariff
Tariff                Eneray        Reactive Rnerwy Tariff
Date             Excess                                                   Over
Effective Demand   Demand   Energv Villages Others  0-60S 0-801 801-100% 100I
-(TL/kW/Mo)-              (TL/IWh)                 (TLIkVAIJr)      -
01-03-82      350     460     4.87      4.12     6.02     -   1.25   2.00   3.50
01-06-82      350     460     5.00      4.25     6.15     -   1.25   2.00   3.50
01-09-82      350     460     5.24      4.49     6.39     -   1.25   2.00   3.50
22-11-82      350     460     6.04      5.29     7.19     -   1.25   2.00   3.50
Over 50S
0.50S   payable on all
01-06-83      420     600     6.95      6.60     8.35     -           3.50
01-01-84      609     800     9.80      8.00    11.80     -           4.00
01-02-84      609     800    10.30      8.50    12.30     -           4.00
01-06-84      700     900    13.40    10.00    15.70       -          4.50
22-08-84      700     900    14.05    10.65    16.35      -           4.50
01-10-84      700     900    14.50    11.10    16.80       -          4.50
01-11-84      900   1,200    17.00    12.10    19.30       -          6.00
01-01-85    1,000   1.200    21.00    13.00    23.00       -          6.00
17-02-85    1,000   1,200    21.80    13.80    23.80    -             6.00
01-03-85    1,250   1,450    25.00    15.00    26.50    -             7.00
01-03-85    1,250   1,450    25.80    15.80    27.30    -             7.00
01-04-85    1,550   1,880    29.20    25.30    32.80    -             9.00
02-05-85    1,550   1,880    29.70    25.80    33.30    -             9.00
12-01-85    1,620   1,965    33.20    25.80    36.90    -            12.50
02-01-86    1,782   2,245    37.95    36.90    42.10    -            17.20



- 88 -
AlIEa 4.3
TURKEY
SIR HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Example of Submission Made by Cukurora Elektrik A.S.
In Support of Application of Tariff Increase
(January 1, 1985)
TL MILLION
ESTIMNLED SALES                               2,905.00 Gvh
AVERAGE SALE PRICE                                20.90 TL/kWh
Sales Revenues                                60,714.00
Fuel oil                                      14,724.00
Purchased energy                              20,866.00
Depreciation                                   2,020.00
Personnel expenses                             2,036.00
Materials & Spare parts                           78.00
Maintenance                                      117.00
Insurance                                         50.00
Miscellaneous                                    423.00
Property tax                                      12.00
Water charges                                     20.00
Interest                                       1,560.00
Corporation taz                                7,340.00
Required Profit to pay dividends
& related taxes                              3,666.00
Non-operating revenue                            (500.00)*
Foreign exchange loss on
principal payments                             457.00
TOTAT.                                        52,869.00
Investment Fund                                7,845.00
TOTAL COSTS RECOVERED FROM REVENUES           6071.0
* Principally late payment penalties



- 89                                                        ANNEX 4.4
- -
UK_e 
1~ - 133
nu     nu  M      ,    I=       im 0w  li .1  I,oSno-                              nok
1932   1901    155    133     15        1       11      m                 1       1                193      1151U
a      aid    )*             2,.2 2092.  2,.0 2,.0 2UM    311.0 3,4.  3,719.  41.   4, 5504,30   5.W.    3sW   GM"
A-W    ah0^
-)   (395                    4A4    6.4      .4   153  3L 0          3.3   46.       M0   O9AS    W1.                  UW      13           O
-         I -                  6.3   13.461  19.016  39,3   56CS    12=5  166.792  29,2   236M  311,22  4"7,    63,15   762,1   *1,1
L 011OU                      4,6   5AM   7?.312,    16,5I1  1             67,    313  346    4S,5   Ws.=    65,9               V.99    3,1
IN                           1,561   4.8    6,12  15,11  3135    MM5    2D   1  3,3    M103   13              5,a13  1JI   gram 
ragn_-m                       77 m      3   1,151   1,3I    2,       3.15   3,.     4,613   5,       6,617    ,2    9.753    13    16F
I_wb~svtb                     316    3Z    4AN        23     go      I,      1.190    1w32    ,1      2W      s,2      4,51     5,u      57
_w ~f _XXfI                        a      a       a       6        a       8        a       a       6    1,011    2wW      2,63    2.9
35     55      56      62     79       1       12      i5      1        29      33       438      3        59
4     1 7  1   11,1   .       4 1      ,15  11,132    179  26         25,51627        4w    5,3    1is
;1ffi_~~~~~~i    I& ,SDx6    sd 169 O,IU                                     M%      X%M   3W, 12W1    1ge Svas                   :16 4,11
1.M  ,l,D    1,5   9,15  32.6          3k=   46J1   5,6        6 3   &W    MM12  11,3   2,1m    2.79
- .bm    m               466    533    113   2,3       ,419        -       -       -       - _   _   _   _ _
unit. Aj. im                      -      -  -        (5,35   33)   (36) C3231)  (237) (22    075   (135   (1,95)  (.25   as
9a                           1, 1.43 1.6    2,6   6,433  31.,S     2 1  4.510    So=   a,3m    1.o  1 ,    M16,    1,7                 M,
k.-.a    (mdiw                451    71       7s       1      N      1, 1   1,3    1,315   1,3I       1,1    19,37   19,3    11         17.1
hetm 1                  1,013    915  1,313   5,46   36        3,5   40,W    51.92 D5,1    3,76    U,3   11,30              M,  31,0
_inin~e ~m                    53      3539    Gli  2.      142       4,34            5,37M   O O         0        0       0    5,30 79.43
3F                                          31-      4-%    G-s9   -&,       -U9    MaM         Z
uns                          516           1,W    3.38   16,    22,719                                                      M 4l,6a 65,3   16,0   1,3   14J1,95
Oiv~                         2116    413    53   1,55   2,         3,W2    4,     D SA,    7.65    9.01   12,65   160         216      3,150 
313    1M     2S   1,741   3,112    19.=9  A5,=    41,= 3      ,IV   rW.7=    6f3   13,0   U m   11.9
gm of Ulm       'I



- 90 -
AN=NC 4.5
U-:
a~ DAJ.
A -
19K-
03m  or L, airn  zut pdm)
155     DE      1       Ila     ISO       I=      10       13      33       130      191      192       111   19m
Findi Am    ian %utim           7,11   9,M   12,072  14,366  15,71    1,435  2),32   5,107   3,61   34.145  179,W   330519   34,8   363,4
3m: Lcc.FsdMti                1,563   2'      3,41    4,5     6210      7.5U    %        10,MS  32,9%       ,W     a,u      30,3     3km      ..m
at Fn ANN  in C w.              S,61    6,13    9,45    9,514   8,1D7     9,83  U1,336   13,24  15,72    11,69Q  15,630  310,3D3   33.195  32,
MaS in  1m                        i7      3%      AM      16    2,5       29,36  59, 73 117,313 21S,61  3 10  33,291 45,53              0      516,ef
0.;. Wm   hmM                     13      D3s     2               5z      1,15   1,M       1,62   1391    2,3        2,7      3,221    3,731    4,9
mm  Vl AM=                      5,3W4   7,4    10,4    9,5     X32       41W    72,491  132,2         M   33,6               646.9    79,3   61,4
Ocat Amao
iSb 6435                                39      46    4       29.       32,     45,169   543    42,4      296    13,52=   161          ,46M    45,
Ama.t hl.ibble                 2,760   3,30    4,01    7,50   345    23,21   313.9    42U,3    3.         71,191   91n1   115779   1,4   13,4
1mmda                           so0    617    66    1,65   2.249         2,9     3,6S    4C31   5.30    6,210    7,33    310          km    U1
*                               5       US      346    4U0   2,3         3,456   4,       5,292   6,o2    7,3       SA62   3,6        11,96    13,31
ML a13,                                 4,4    5,59  33,775  4,31    61,9             7   13,73 157  ,3l 113,712  12,10    15,15O   13,161  O0,
L.                            9,5    12,1t0  3742  D,763  60,919   111 9      15,=36  23%,032 32,7W  4^73  66,315  79.31    3,31
-      ~                        -        -      -                 -       -                 -       -                 -          -
ld-b aoilp1                     400     AN    1,2      1,M    3,3W       7,0  32,0   15,01        ,       310 ,    40,6  60,6         75,0    0,"
490     no0     2     1,136   3,37    1,   31,41   63,30 10,413  1,0  23,61                 35 1   46 ,36    35
asm es                  36            1,1G 6   3,    36,3    22,m79  30,2   46D   65,9z    3J,70   3,9             1,    35,    34191
ta  biq                       1.411   1,319   2,30   5,662  23,915    47,63   w6,00  12,3  1wow   25,3  3,1 1    3W3,3    6 S   7I,5
Ibauo                         SM5   6,JU      9,M    13,517 15,2       5,3    425       7129 2,33   3            1,7,    19,94   1915    11,510
1om1                            30      74      7%3     340      22        DI      336      35       50       0  2,%=01110                0        @
Me.*                          5,315   7,3  IO,W   13,71  15,96o   21,07   42,73   n,3v  132,3    337   2,6715    5914 14                 11  31,5
1_:  A        Pti0            46     U      1,29     ,= 2   1,4       261    3,5    3,3   3.79    18,36   30,634   3133                    2O6M25
amtmw a0|_bdiom                  St      60               -       -         -       -        -       -        -         _        _                 _
Rl zq-tom mt4,950   6,760   9,512  12,6    3,5                          342  39,7C5   67,912 1,9  3,3    1,7                            6     3,
a                             Ii .  1,13    3,04  0   3,On   18,61    23,40   3,231   35,3  42,           49,75   53,650   665        73,19   U,
m     1mt of LT 1ik             416      31.  1,'3   1.2    1,46         2,616   3,3    34        3,s     18,1   30,3    333          2,M1         5
-m   & Odw                     1.30   1,679   1,        647   3,         4,5W    563      6,7 ,11  33    9,573   11.21    13,1        15,l15   3,31
Ind ir.   bilidtin             3,59   3.51   3,310    6.6  21,112    30,52L  37,54   45,2    5            707. 7,512  10   119,D0   119,652        0
IML MUMT 4 37A5m                935  32,14   15.74   23,763  36,91    192,54 35.VG6  26,0O2 352,50   454,7   631.    7;95,             93,35  1,03,43
__        _      -        - _-  _--                                                             - _-              - _ _ _



1W-  -
IU - 19%
OgIlim  of UL, Le amW  plem)
la"
19N     IOU      191     165       S        136    11W        11W      I9       1980     199       11m       19        131  comm          (D)
on=      m  (Iin mp.t)              167   1,3      1131    4,317  1,23        24,252  32,015   4,OX   07,m21    82,90   101,90   162,99    171,517   159,117         OS0      G7I
isloto nebta                       45      7M1   1,140   1,15S   1,552       1,302   1,512    1,M       2,111    2,513    8.552    6.37s       84       8IS           U42      2
Own   Irma Cu  t                  1,415   2,05    3,011   5,43   1,W7         3554  33,52   40,781  60,332   1,453  110.460  169,0            179.1    118.3          U        ?a
bact)1MUS OmitAmtrb.                t(U)    (31)    469    (58)         0         0       0         0       0         0        0         0         0         0          0       a
NW Om  cjp_i*                         0       0       No       0   2,1         3.80    4,1o     3,000   3.S8l  1o0.1       10.0   20.6         35.10   IS,IIIO          s       n
1mi (IL) endue                    3l 80   Ns        a2       0        0         0        0        0        a        0   s.ma                               0s                 a
fe  im    8fit                      0       0        0       0        0     7I'm    1O       M        53.3      37.3   18W        1 779 116      0         0        145     2In
0       to   ". Uj. - km        JJ46    2,331   3.On    5,19   3,403 64,46S     S.6           0."I  11,10    0,30 6    u2,        ns.m       252,W    1,DM           13      to
- _  _  _  .1    -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -    - 
2,41S   4,749   &,9S   9,09   85,          42,0U   596.5     5,1    11.7M  1W,.256  16,00   221,31   214,  M0,32                  127      INS           _
66
sit vja(all cm           )          0       0        0       0   3,5S       2A1R1  :8,509    52,06   66,194   56,979   30,0        14,W20        0         0                 2U2
D11mim twoject                      0       0        0       0        0         0        0        0  32,769   60,650  97,730  107,3          91,S5  72,774          463    3X
thr                               S347    498      737   1.291       93     6.449   3,735    4,594   5,478    9.615   15,00    17.53    20.351   23,3              107       91
h"rop   c. Aj. - km             1,461   2,231    3,021       0        0       798   2.575    4,612   8,671    I2,25           0        0         0         0    2     9  2     t
Tb*al                         2,003   2,729   3,758   5,21    3,619    2z,4    32,a9   61,80  113,312  539,457  14,741  139,161   112.56   96,162                57      6C
r. MS.tUA          u                       (405)   (107)   (27)                  -                                 . -  _0 _
Tnr. La Otr  A56                              -      149       5      592       256      277      277      332      359       42       444        5S       5D           3       4K
*i Senic
Frimlpl                        249      50N     350   1,81    1,334       2,176   2,616    3,016   3,405    3,716   18,336   30,G34    3.133    25,04            1      1
lanot                          40      716      73      "99      957      1,473    ,413    1,375   1,2%       1,110   19,917   19,40      17,115   17,198         a       42
T71a  Met 8s.ice                650   1,222   1,131    2,65    2,291       3,649   4,119    4,3M    4.6"       4,975   30,153   50.,       55,32    42,m           211    L1z
D(v1d{ Pi   a                       1a9     248      41      589   I,5'        2,45S   3,240    4,600   5,410      7,000    9,000   12.600    16,010   21,400           82      n
InM(Dec) In WIC                     317     83    1,517    1,I45  (6,464)    3,961   3,311    4.,13   6,624    8,961   12,14U   IS,5S          20,358   24,184        100       a
iac(Dh) ian  O                      113     152      129   4,317  2.341       3,250   12,75    8,656 (11,5W) (13,496) (15,423)   3,174    12,77   15,9U1              16       IS
_ _                         -        _                                                                                            __ __ ____.___
TOML AFMUCJM;                   3,415   4,749   6,996   9,959  25,934   4U,670  56,56    8,399 118,781  147.56  16 I 4C   25,202   1',244    0,3111                 1277    lX:           5
14-_                                                            _*                                  - _



- 92 -
ANNEX 4.7
Sm  -vm         PXU
cmmm iMM S.
#Atmi
19m           z98 ur         Dr        155   I9SP     195    198      1980    1991    19g 92    1993    1599
awroa   *1tio                   1.2    1.3    I7      2.3    2.1       2.0    2.2     2.3    2.0      1.      1.2      1.3      1.6     L
Dsk Sowim n1P                   7.3  1J       2.7    1.9   82          7.0    3      1.3   16.       17.2     LS9    3.         3.3     3.9
J_cenul Gob 16mrsti            IAS   -9JZ   0.1!  66.   592.          52.11   69.5   5L.    66.4    4L3    35.E   65.4         78N    5.6
_I1Vk~.IqdtyCu.~ zuiMlo        17.d    7.    76.3   66.1   3631    33.5  332X    353    363Z   34.3   33.3    253              2.    1La.
14-5



- 93 -
ANNEX 4.8
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
SIR HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Assumptions used in Financial Forecasts
1.       The forecasts were made in Turkish Lira (TL) in current prices
applying the following annual inflation rates:
1986    1987    1988    1989    1990   1991    1992/93    1994
Local   ()      30      25       20      20      18      18        16       14
Foreign (X)      7.2     6.8      6.8     7.0      7.1    4.0       4.0       4.0
The exchange rate for june 1986 (TL 700 = US$1) was used as a base rate.  In
order not to understate the TL equivalent of foreign expenditures and debt
Service payments, it was assumed that depreciation of the TL wou:ld occur in
line with the ratio between forecast local and international inflation rates.
2.       Changes in the legal status of CEAS which would involve an increase
in its scope of activities (such as the transfer to CEAS of regional
electricity distribution assets) have not been taken into account.
3.       The sales forecast, developed by CEAS, shows a growth in demand
averaging 10i/year over the 1986-1994 period.
4.       The average revenue earned by CEAS on electr4 city sales would remain
at the February 1986 level in real terms (TL 38.80/kWh, excluding Value Added
Tax).
5.       CEAS would be able to purchase from TEK as bulk supply adequate
electricity to make up the residual between CEAS own generation and the
regional sales forecast. The tariff for exchange of bulk supply between CEAS
and TEK would be 85% of the CEAS sales tariff.
6.       Gross generation of Sir would be 363 GWh in 1991 and 725 GWh from
1992 to 1994.
7.       Other operating expenses would increase with inflation.  Additional
operating expenses attributable to the Sir Hydropower Plant starting in 1991,
are estimated as follows (millions of TL, in mid-1986 prices):
Personnel     495
Maintenance   290
Insurance      50



- 94 -
ANNEX 4.8
Page 2 of 2
Only 501 of these operating expenses are included in 1991, the first year of
Sir conmmercial operation.
8.       Fuel expenses are based on gross annual generation of 544 GWh of the
Mersin Thermal plant, requiring 173,000 tons of fuel oil/year (assuming
specific consumption of 318 g/kWh). Since the results of the feasibility
study for rehabilitation and/or conversion of Mersin are not yet known, no
allowance has been made for related investments, or for changes in Mersin fuel
efficiency.
9.       Interest during construction on the Sir Hydropower project will be
capitalized up to March 1991.
10.      Dividends would be paid out at twice the level of annual inflation
(i.e., if inflation is 20Z, declared dividends would be equivalelit to 401 of
the mid-year book value of paid-in share capital).
11.      The interest rate for the proposed World Bank loan for the Sir
project is assumed to average 8.5Z.
12.      Principal and interest payments on foreign currency denominated loans
are converted into TL at the anticipated exchange rate (see para. 1 above).



- 95 -
AINE1 4.9
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
SIR HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Supply Tariff of TEK's Generation and Transmission Enterprise
as of 02101/86
(Summary of Sections I, II and IV)
The following tariffs exclude aniy tax or dutv that TEK must collect
as intermediary.
1. Active EnerRy
(a) Two-Part Tariff
(i)   Demand Charge:
a.   TL 21,3841kW/yr or TL 1,782/kW/month of contracted power.
b.   TL 2,160/kW/month for power consumed in excess of the
contracted power.
c.   Section (b) above does not apply to TEK's Distribution
enterprises, nor to the concessionary companies (e.g.,
CEAS, KEPEZ).
(ii)    Energy Charge:
a.  Uniform tariff:  TL 37.95/kWh
b.  Time-of-day tariff (applicable to customers with a
contracted power greater than 0.7 MW):
TL 49.25/kWh during peak hours
TL 37.95/kWh during day hours
TL 28.15/kWh during night hours
(b) Single-Term Tariff
(i)   TL 42.10/kWh for all customers except villages.
(ii)    TL 26.80/kWh for villages.
2. Reactive Enermy
(a) No charge for the consumption of reactive energy below 50% of tte
active energy consumed.
(b) TL 17.20/kVARh of react4 nergy above 50X of the active energy
consumed.



-96 -
ANNEX 4.9
Page 2 of 2
3. General Conditions
(a) The above tariffs will be applied by TEK's Generation and
Transmission Enterprise to its direct customers.
(b) The above tariffs will be applied to TEK's distribution enterprises
as follows: (i) with a lOX discount by the concessionary companies
(e.g., CEAS, KEPEZ); and (ii) at a rate to be determined by TEK's
Board of Directors by TEK's Generation and Transmission Enterprise.
Special tariffs are to be applied to certain industrial development
zones.



-97 -
ANNEX 5.1
TURKEY
SIR HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Comparative generation costs
(US cents /kWh)
Plant Factor          90%   801   75Z  70%   65%   601   50Z  401   301   20%
Combustion turbine    7.2   7.3   7.4   7.4   7.5   7.6   7.7  8.0   8.5   9.4
Combined cycle        5.5   5.6   5.7  5.7   5.8   5.9   6.2  6.6   7.2  8.5
Fuel Oil              8.0   8.2   8.3  8.5   8.6   8.8   9.3  10.1  11.3  13.7
Hard Coal             6.9   7.2   7.4   7.6   7.8  8.1   8.8   9.9  11.7  15.2
Lignite               6.1   6.4  6.6   6.9   7.2   7.5   8.3   9.6  11.7  16.0
Nuclear               5.3   5.9   6.3   6.7   7.1   7.7   9.1  11.2  14.7  21.8
Assumptions: Discount rate: 12S
Plant life   : Fuel Oil, Coal, Lignite, Nuclear = 30 years
Combined Cycle                   = 25 years
Combustion Turbine               = 20 years
Plant Investment Cost (including interest during construction):
(US$/kW)
Combustion turbine             337
Combined cycle                 491
Fuel oil                      1026
Hard coal                     1355
Lignite                       1625
Nuclear                       2654
Bank projections for oil and coal price escalation were taken
for calculation of the average incremental cost of fuel.
Source: Bank Reports 5021-TU, 5431-TU, 5572-TU and 5774-TU



9-98 -
ANNEX 5.2
Page 1 of 3
TURKEY
SIR HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Rate of Return Analysis
Return on the National Investment Program
1.      The rate of return analysis in page 3 of this annex was carried out
on the basis that the project forms an integral part of the national 1985-1995
expansion program for the power subsector. The program is estimated to have
an economic rate of return of 11.5Z, compared to an opportunity cost of
capital of 12Z. Key assumptions are presented below.
2.      Benefits.  Incremental revenues plus net fuel savings derived from
investment in improved efficiency of thermal plants were taken as the benefits
of the program. Electricity tariffs were assumed to increase at regular
intervals to reach and maintain LRMC, and to ensure an adequate level of
self-financing for the power subsector, reflecting the Government's commitment
to reduce public expendf.tures. Tariffs include taxes to reflect the prices
faced by consumers.-'  The average revenue (in 1985 prices) would be as
follows:
1985     1986     1987     1988      1989     1990 & Onwards
TL/kWh           30.55    31.04    31.88    32.58    33.36         33.82
Net fuel savings were calculated on the basis that investment in improved
efficiency of existing therml plants (Tuncbilek A and B, Anbarli, Seyitomer,
Soma B and Yatagan) would increase their average efficiency by one percentage
point as a minimum and result in an annual net fuel savings of TL 5.9 billion
starting in 1991. Given the fact that these plants would be retired at
different dates, net fuel savings would progressively diminish over the entire
30-year period considered for the life of the entire program.
1/ This includes VAT (10X) and a telecommunications tax going to the TRT
(3.5X). VAT presents some difficulties for economic analysis since for
industries (which use electricity as an intermediate good) a tax rebate
will be given. However, since such rebates may take upwards of one year,
the "effective price" faced by these consumers is estimated to include
VAT. Excluding VAT in the analysis results in a rate of return of 10.341.



- 99 -
ANNEX 5.2
Page 2 of 3
3.       Capital and OPerating Costs.  The capital costs of the national
expansion program were estimated on the basis of discussions in connection
with a joint Bank-Government power subsector investment review carried out in
ea ly-1985. Operation and maintenance costs were estimated at 1X of
cumulative capital costs for generation and transmission, and at 2% for
distribution.
4.       Fuel Costs.  The incremental generation from thermal plants was taken
from the projected balance of energy and capacity for TEK (Annex 2.1). The
cost of fuel was estimated on the basis of the following assumptions:
(a) Specific consumption (ton/GWh):
-    lignite-fired steam plants: 1,450 (for a lignite with an average
calorific value of 1,725 kcal/kg);
-    coal-fired steam plants: 730 (for a coal with an average
calorific value of 4,200 kcal/kg);
-    gas-fired combustion turbines: 302;
-    gas-fired combined cycle plants: 226.
(b) Economic cost of fuels (US$/ton):
-    lignite: 20 (equal to the weighted average long-run marginal
cost of lignite in Turkey);
-    coal: 60 (equal to the estimated CIF price of imported coal);
-    natural gas: 180 (equal to 90X of the border price of fuel oil).
5.       All benefits and costs were expressed in January 1985 prices, with an
exchange rate of TL 450/US$. The life of the program was taken at 30 years.



- 100 _
AME  5.2
-                                     Page 3 of 3
h.aE 3        h _ hiz
Ras o   litm Ca Tu.)    Po
-                .   }T      -                                                        c -   - -   r  T                 -
1993    37,30     0.0   37.30    451.S80    201.656      93.12   49.00      4,53        1.017      1,963  21A8   MM,9  (693,621)
195   192.691     0.0  192.696   560,962    140,6?      118.750  59,091     10,127      2,423      2.169  91,901  9.008t7 (79.391)
1917   426.433    0.0  46;,433    517.817    128.38     143.750  64.773    15.306       3.707      3.606 172,55 1,069.69  (63,2W1)
Isis   697,178    O.D  6971       524.7B8    144,011    181.Z5   48,D       2D,54       5,14B      5,419 26,455 1.175.964 (473,7861
1989   93.466     0.0  933.466    49622      180055     2Zb00   51.35      25.516       7.028      7,669 275,65. 1.276,329 (462,863)
1990   916,319    0.0  916,319    521.142    19.94    237,375  53.968    30,72B         9.08      10,03 215,40 1.355.65  (439.3)
1991 1,051,269 58941 1.0579.162    5M273    195.170    237.00  50,000    36.403        10,977      2413 353.002 1,418.$ (361.776)
1992 1.192.47B 5,893.11.198.31    515,427    196, 3     237.WD   50.00     42,010      12.90      14,73 414 1,412,5 (28,44)
1993 1.33.618 5.893.1 1,389.511    505.474   19i.0O     237.000  50,OOD    47U64       14,90      17,153 45131 1,518,939 (129.428)
1994 1.59.476 5.83.1 1.605369    499.516     19.0       237.000  50,0       52,0       16.50      19-5  458946 159,5       75,44
1995 1.719.411 5.8934 1.725,304    490.0c    195,000    231.0M   5D,000    56,960      1,83s      21,393 45946 1.529,618  195,68
1996 1,765,532 5,8 . 1,771,.425        0          0          0       0      56.960     13,52D     21,393 468,566  55.618 1,224.W7
1997 1.761,751 5,736.410.413           0          0           0      0      56,960     13.D       21., 458,946  556.6181,213170
199  1,763,942 5,736.4 1,769.679       0          0          0       0      56,60      MM         21.9  48946  556,18 1213,061
1999 I.7S3,16I 5,736.4 1,768,398       0          0          0       0      56,960     13,.0      21,33 45946  556.618 1212,281
21M  1,762,409 5,736.4 1,768,145       0          0           0      0      56,50O     18,8Z0     21693 458.9M   55.618 1,211,527
2001 1,761.628 3,67.4 1764.95          0          0           0      0      56.960     18.50      21,3  458,946  5566181,23377
m02 1,760,347 3,3.4 1.764,214          0          0           0      0      56,960     18,580     21,893  58.966  556,6181217,596
2103 1.760.096 3,367A1763,461          0          0           0      0      56,960     18,50      21.39  458,946  556,6181,21,343
2104 1,759,3n  3,367.41,762,738        0          0           0      0      56,960     1s8,5      21.893 458,s9   551.618 1,6.120
2105 1.756,590 3,367.41,761,957        0          0          0       0      56,960     18,s5      21,893 458946  556.618 1.5s,339
2M6 1.75765  2,247.2 1760,112          0          0          0       0      5,9S60     18s.0      219  4C58,946  556,618 1,23,49
207 1,757865 2,2S7.2 1.760,112         0          0           0      0      56,960     18,50      21,893 458,.96  556,618 1.203,49
2108 1.757,s5  2,W.2 1,760,112         0          0           0      0      56,960     18,50      21,893 458.946  55,618 1,213494
2109 1,757,65 2,247.2 1,760,112        0          0          0       0      56,960     13.,5      21,895 458,946  556.618 1,213.49
211  1.757855 2,247.2 1,760,112        0          0          0       0      56.960     18,20      21,893 458966  556,618 1,03,494
2D1  1.757,865  1,566.01,759,411       0          0           0      0      %56.0      18,50      21.8   458.9546  556.618 1,al2,793
21D2 1,757,565 1566.0 1,759,411       0          0           0      0      56,96      18.0       21.393 458.966  55S1618 1,32,793
2013 1.757.565 1.546.0 1.759,411       0          0           0      0      56960      18,820     21,393 458,946  556,611 1,212,793
2D14 1,757,55 1,5(6.0 1,759,411        0          0           0      0      56.960     1s8=       21,893 458,966  556,618 1,212,793
Fi_: zorine                                                                                                  Rseof        C*:    U.5
19 -S5



- 101 -
AN.-FX 6.1
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
SIR HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
A. Sir Hydroelectric Power Proiect
A.1 Feasibility Studies and Preliminary Design, Energoproject (20 volumes)
A.2 Revised Loan Application Report (May 1984)
A.3 Reports by Mr. L. Wolofsky, Consulting Geologist - July 1984 and September
1985
A.4 Reports by Prof. Eng.  J.L. Serafim Civil Engineering Consultant   -
October 30, 1984 and September 1985
A.5 Environmental Report on Sir and Dukesme Dam Projects, Cukurova University
Faculty of Agriculture (September 1984)
A.6 Consulting Engineer and Construction Supervisor Services of the Sir Dam
and HPP, Contract with Coyne et Bellier (5/23185)
A.7 Sir Dam and Hydroelectric Power Plant - Engineering Report (July 1985),
Coyne et Bellier and Akai.
A.8 Future Development of CEAS Network and Related Investment Scheduling (June
1985)
B. Economic Aspects
B.1 Description Report about the Electrification of Adana City, Counties, and
Village (Toroslar Region)
B.2 Load Forecasts by CEAS
C. Financial Aspects and Legal AsDects
C.1 CEAS Annual Reports, 1983 and 1984 (English and Turkish)
C.2 Report on Financial and Legal Situation of CEAS, by Robert Smith-
Consultant, 2/6/85.
C.3 Letter from CEAS to the MENR, Giving Justification for Making CEAS an
Entrusted Company( 3/26/85
C.4 Letter from CEAS to the Prime Minister, Giving Justification for Making
CEAS an Entrusted Company, 3/22/85



- 102 -
ANNEX 6.1
Page 2 of 2
C.5 Law No. 3096, Concerning the Entrusting of Electrical Generation,
Transmission, and Distribution and Co merce to Institutions Other Than TEK
C.6 Working Papers for Financial Forecasts.
July 1986
(2746P)



BULGARIA       ,-N                                                         32
~~~~~~-  h                                                       CcehOIa  --  - 
GREECE   U                                                                                       ,-' *          -
t  y@a              <__                                   'S--- ~~~~~~~~---- 9 
I tc. ' ~~~~n ,,, \ sS 's . ., .~~0.00                                                              *1 
~~~~~~~~~~0 ~ ~ ~       4L
--I
; o m;: ~~2.-                                                                                           2 \.....v.<x4;.
3.2'                                                 3 - -
I ~~~~~~~~~~~ -y   t .,    -- ---
So. . ,.                             S                       .,D..
-36                                                                      j     _  ^; r~~~   _
)~~~~~~~~~                                 ~    ~~~~~~~~           ot 9e, ma  -6D   19 -'
K~~~~~~~~~~~~ Y P R U 
n____* ~     ~     ~     I--                                              .,m .
"__._~ * _                                     0.        ~
___.t_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ 1                                 
__e___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     
_6_,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _ 
36_
_ D _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*".
___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ __ 
___w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_~~~0  De_l_e   BO    94
_,____ ~~~                  ~~                 ~        ~YP U
*e sbn  -tOES5)X02CROC
_-_                  28---
.eI . -     



IBRD 19443
- ^~~~ --- ~~~-                                    ,' ~~ U     5     S     R
O..wI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ G-                                                                U  5  5 R     |
E - bo..     O
4~~~~~~~04     -
%          ~~~~D-mrdop
%9.--                                                                                           L \  S  iit4-a._  e- .\  ISLAMIC
\7REPUBLIC
OF
IRAN
C"h-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Ad-m~~
F-                                                                         I/                           
Hosao   if0w w.i.                                                   / 
-~~~~~~~  (~~~~~~~~~~ ~~TURKEY                                                                       36L
SIR HYDROPOWER PROJECT
MAIN GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
AS OF JANUARY 1985
SYRIAN  ARAB  REPUBLIC                               POWER PLA5NTS                     TRANSFORMER STATIONS
r.-ERMAL -0RO
*.       In operolion                   *   In operaton
*        Under construct-on ond future  *   Urnder construction and future
-   Project
TRANSMISSION LINES
380 kW '34 kV
-    -     In operotion                -      nternational boundaries
- -     ~~Under construction and fvture
ON--  Project
36W  J*                                                                                                          440
JUNE 1986



OTHER
POWER COMPANIES                    C. E A S.
UNDER PLAMNNG            UNDER PLANMNG
IN         OR            0N          OR
OPERATON  CONSWRUCT1ON   OFERAMO   cONSlRUCnON PROJECr
Power Plants:
*                            Thermal                    :        Cuk
,J              O                                        yOm Hdr                            Proii
Nuclear                      -      Inter
Transmission Lines:
380 kV
:                          .0         *n         .-    ~~~~~~~~~~~~154 kV
See Abte                *66 -5 kV
Other voltages
Substafions:
A                    A       Existing
A         A   New
06kv- ov ond omrer wvopg excVt 38kV T,orwms.an Iines Wfo
Power Cofm7rdes o.ter marn CEAS ore not shoV*w- on Ihas moo          >. -= 
^,'A                         -G, e
7O~~AV
. -i tw A..                                      -
.7 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
=:'OA"~10   23   A0   40  50   60   70  80   90  100A
*    *      , b           ,, aa    VW S                                 s
~t~-Dm~,>                                  -           =f =dge ;on .h _                   ctSlA in th  r~7eo ~
. . ** golik-  
4>s :   ;,  -                                                                                       -      , 



IBRD 19
TURKEY
SIR HYDROPOWER PROJECT
TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
Cukurova Region
~~/2
5                       I1 103 
A, Kxm  -'     I/
SolmDe?~~~~/  */ 3 
A ri Iw *A L                                                  A--
T                                                     ~~      ~~/ AL  -. ,V 2A lX    f\|
r~~~~a            - *-/       .co                        t
tX        w    9 2a.5B,t_w/Nt
\ (     Z                                       r--- iFevu
AceYh />B<ceeX,('   -   f                                 _    f A
;  -- --/                                        U1r    V
-                            -              / P A  0 "
-~~~~~v -kC Sb%                            RIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
-D               .-           - t.  r.   _-
2           xmi/ /^ (_                                  A    <      5R !1;_z
SYRIAN   ARAB    REPUBLIC~~EPMI
\  A    t  zo rr   e  ;>\ /   -      /~~~~~  ~~ ~ > 4:S       ' '
-;  ;    / _^    @   rJv>e   \>>_9  -- -'>  .ck Sa           I    H
-~~~ ROA~~~MA (    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ O v-'c
/~ (                           xg E       -. . , ^ 5>
~~~~ ~~~~~~       TURKEY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LL 1986~~
'-d    F t   ~~~~~~~~~b,,,,. ,,ic C-OVD--S SAi OFR4N
*                              ?            -C       |-RPSC    






