Document of
The World Bank
Report?No: 17395-VN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR49.6 MILLION
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
June 1, 1998
Rural Development & Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dong
US$1.00 = D12,000
(as of November 1997)
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January i - December 31
IDA     :   July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AF[)                   Agence Fran,caise de Developpement
CAS,                   Country Assistlance Strategy
CEMMA                  Committee for Ethnic Minorities and Mountainous Areas
CIRAD                  Centre de Cooperation Intemationale en Recherche Agronomique pour le
Developpement
ERR,                   Economic Rate of Return
EMDP                   Ethnic Minority Development Plan
FRR                    Financial Rate of Return
GDLA                   General Department of Land Administration
GOV                    Government olFVietnam
GRC                    General Rubber Corporation
ha                     hectare
HCMC                   Ho Chi Minh City
HR[)                   Human Resource Development
IDA                    International Development Association
IRR                    Internal Rate of Return
km                     kilometer
M&E                    Monitoring and Evaluation
MARD                   Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
MOF                    Ministry of Finance
MPI                    Ministry of Planning and Investment
PCU                    Project Coordination Unit
PCUAG                  Project Communal Working Group
PIP                    Project Implementation Plan
PMU                    Project Management Unit
PPMU                   Provincial Proj.-ct Management Unit
PRC                    Provincial Rubber Company
PPSC                   Provincial Project Steering Committee
PSC                    Project Steering Committee
RIFAV                  Research Institute on Fruits and Vegetables
RRIV                   Rubber Research Institute of Vietnam
SBV                    State Bank of Vietnam
SOE                    State Owned Enterprise
SRC                    State Rubber Crmpany
TOR                    Terms of Reference
VBARD                  Vietnam Bank ;For Agriculture & Rural Development
Vice President                 :      Jean-Michel Sdverino, EAP
Country Director                      Andrew Steer, EACVF
Sector Manager                :       Geoffrey B. Fox, EASRD
Task Team Leader              :       Philippe Boyer, EASRD



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
A.  Project Development Objective ...............................................................2
1.   Project development objective and key performance indicators ............................................2
B.  Strategic Context ..............................................................2
1.   Sector-related  CAS  goal supported by the project ..........................................................2
2.   Main  sector issues and Government strategy ...............................................................2
3.   Sector issues to  be addressed by the project and  strategic choices .................................3
C. Project Description Summary .............................5
1. Project components ...........................5
2.   Key policy  and  institutional reforms supported by the project .......................................5
3.   Benefits and target population ................................................................6
4.   Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ...............................................................6
D. Project Rationale ................................................................8
1 .   Project alternatives considered  and reasons for rejection ................................................8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ..........9
3.   Lessons learned  and reflected  in proposed project design ............................................. 10
4.   Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ...................................                                ................. 10
5.   Value added  of Bank  support in this project ...............................................................  10
E.  Summary  Project Analyses ................................................................1.1
1.   Economic Assessment ...............................................................                                                 11
2.   Financial Assessment ...............................................................                                                 11
3.   Technical Assessment ...............................................................                                                12
4.   Institutional Assessment ...............................................................                                            13
5.   Social Assessment ...............................................................                                                   14
6.   Environmental Assessment ................................................................ 15
7.   Participatory  Approach ...............................................................                                             16
F.   Sustainability  and  Risks ............................................................... 17
1.   Sustainability ...............................................................                                                      17
2.   Critical Risks ...............................................................                                                      18
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .......................                                                                                18



G. Main Loan Conditions .........................                                19
1. Effectiveness Conditions ......................                           19
2. Conditions of Disbursement ...................... 19
3. Dated Covenants ......................                                    19
H. Readiness for Implementation ......................... 19
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .........................                       20
Anniexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 2.      Project Description
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.      Financial Summary
Table A    Project Costs (excluding farm labor) in US$million
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.     Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.      Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.      Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Map          IBRD 29620



Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Agricultural Diversification Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Date: June 1, 1998                                   Task Team Leader: Philippe Boyer
Country Director: Andrew Steer                       Sector Manager: Geoffrey Fox
Project ID: VN-PE-4844     Sector: Agriculture       Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable
Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan         Program of Targeted Intervention:  [x] Yes  []  No
Project Financing Data                [] Loan       [x] Credit    [] Guarantee       [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: SDR49.6million
Proposed terms:                        []   Multicurrency    []  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10          []   Standard Variable []  Fixed          []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local            Foreign            Total
Government                                                1.86                                 1.86
Cofinanciers: Agence Francaise de Developpement          15.57                                15.57
IBRD                                                       -                  -                -
IDA                                                      25.93             40.92             66.85
Total      43.36              40.92             84.28
Borrower: Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Guarantor:
Responsible agency: Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
Estimated disbursements (IDA FY/US$m):     1999      2000      2001      2002    2003    2004   2005
Annual    3.0        8.0       11.0     12.0    13.0    15.0    4.85
Cumulative    3.0       11.0      22.0      34.0    47.0    62.0   66.85
Project implementation period: 6 years Expected effectiveness date: 09/01/1998   Expected closing date: 12/31/2004
OSD PAD Form: July 30,1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex .1):
The overall Project Development Objecl:ive is to diversify and intensify agricultural production and
thereby increase and stabilize farmers' incomes and rural employment, princilpally through establishing a
smallholder rubber sector and upgrading livestock production and crop intensification activities, in the
poor central highland and coastal provinces of Vietnam.
The Project development objective and key performance indicators were agreed upon during negotiations
and include:
*  the creation of 60,000 ha of new rubber smallholdings, in central highland/coastal provinces of
Vietnam, and rehabilitation of a further 17,000 ha of existing rubber smallholdings by 2004, as proxy
indicators for project impact; and
*  performance indicators for project outputs, as described under Annex 1.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the prcGject (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: CAS Report No. 1 5053-VN
Date of latest CAS discussion: Board discussion of Progress Report dated 12/2/96 held on 12/23/96
The CAS long-term objective is to promote broad-based, private sector-led, and environmentally
sustainable development that results in a rapid reduction of poverty. The proposed project would support
poverty reduction and sustainable development. The proposed project would increase farm incomes in
poor areas of the country by improving crop productivity and would improve sustainability of farm
incomes by introducing a new and profilable smallholder crop to protect against price risks of other
crops. The proposed project would also promote sustainable use of natural resources by supporting
replicable tree crop development on degracled slopes unsuitable for annual cropping.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Issues
*  Maintaining Rural Income Growth - Agricultural income growth since de-collectivization has
been rapid. Growth has been mainly based on increased rice and coffee output and maintaining this
momentum in the post-adjustment period is challenging. Despite income growth, the rural sector is
still overwhelmingly poor. The Poverty Assessment showed that the bul]k of Vietnam's poor are in
rural areas which are characterized by a relatively low contribution of non-farm activities to rural
incorne and high unemployment.
* Diveirsifying Farm Income - Given the market instability of rice and coffee, crop diversification is
necessary for income stability. The low availability of credit, extension, and other rural services has
constrained the move to a wider crop mix except around major urban centers.
*  Protecting Natural Resources - Much of the recent increase in sector output was achieved at the
expense of the environment as cultivators moved onto steep slopes, potentially saline soils and
drained wetlands subject to frequent flooding. This has resulted in degradation of soils and water
resources in major watersheds.



Page 3
Government Strategy
Government strategy is to promote private sector activity in rural areas, upgrade and extend credit,
extension, research and other farm services to increase productivity and encourage crop diversification
while investing in rural infrastructure to improve access to markets and social services and to attract
industries. Public investment is also being used to improve education and health care in the countryside.
Close monitoring of living standards is being implemented following the Poverty Assessment and better
targeting of social services to the poor has resulted. A National Environmental Action Plan is under
preparation and laws and regulations governing land and water resources use are being strengthened to
protect the environment. A major effort is under way to produce a Rural Development Strategy to better
focus the Government and donor initiatives in the sector. Government is concerned that its success as a
major rice grower and exporter (1997 exports about 4 million tons, second only to Thailand) will depress
international prices and hence village incomes. Attempts to diversify sectoral income by promotion of
coffee and cashews have been successful but these also are facing marketing problems exacerbated by the
high cost of the dominant SOE producers. Government strategy is to widen crop choice and to encourage
the private sector to take the lead since their production costs are about 40% lower than that of the SOEs.
Since the private sector in agriculture in Vietnam is mostly smallholders, this approach should both
improve income distribution and increase efficiency.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Despite rapid growth in the economy as a whole, Vietnam's rural communities are still overwhelmingly
poor, mainly because of the small size of farmed area per household. Rural unemployment is increasing
due to high population growth rates, labor displacing technology change, and the return of workers
displaced elsewhere. Rice and coffee export price instability has adversely affected incomes and
investment as the economy has opened to world markets. Rural poverty is worse in the environmentally
degraded highland areas where agricultural conditions are generally not as favorable as in the lowlands
and where ethnic minorities are concentrated. To generate a substantial impact on rural incomes,
employment, and the environment, the relatively high annual agricultural growth rate of some 4% will
need to be increased by changing the structure of production and by broadening the rural based industries
with a need for equitable distribution. Two of the most significant impediments to changing the structure
of production include the general shortage of long termn capital in rural areas, and the inadequacy of
technical advice on new opportunities. Less than 50% of farmers receive rural credit, which is mostly
short term seasonal credit for rice. This is mainly due to the sheer number of new smallholder operations
(10 million) following decollectivization, the large number of farmers without collateral, the immaturity
of rural financial institutions, and Government controls on credit supply. Government limits credit
availability and interest rates in order to limit inflation. Savings mobilization is traditionally low and
predominantly short term partly reflecting the higher interest rates administratively set, until recently, on
short term lending. As a result, rural credit markets do not readily reflect investment opportunities. The
Government is reforming the financial sector with a number of important changes, such as increasing the
longer term interest rates over those for shorter term credit. Additionally, the wide use of joint-liability
(group guarantee) schemes has improved credit access and lowered the cost of reaching a large number
of small borrowers. However, it will be some time before the reform program is substantially complete.
In the meantime, the project would - consistent with the direction of the reforms - introduce long term
supervised credit and support extension services in order to take advantage of clear opportunities through
diversifying the crop mix at both household and sector levels. The project would address the credit
access issue by providing land use certificates to smallholders for use as part of collateral requirements.
Strategic Choices
The principal strategic choice for this project was between a directed diversification program and a
general line of farm credit with technical advice on diversification opportunities and stronger
enforcement of environmental regulations. Analysis of ongoing credit operations showed that increased



Page 4
credit availability was being concentrated on investment in just a few traditional crops for which markets,
extension services and peer advice was readily available and in the more fertile deltas where incomes
were already higher than elsewhere. The analysis showed that to have a major diversification impact
while improving income distribution relative to other areas of Vietnam, an integrated package of short
and long term credit directed to suitable activities in chosen regions, together with necessary technical
support, market access and land allocation would be required.
A second strategic choice was the selection of a suitable smallholder crop and technical package given
the high risk associated with trying to identify an eventual success. A mixture of farm activities based on
investment in rubber, livestock, and short-term cropping was chosen. Rubber is central to the approach
because Vietnam has a long history of successful estate rubber production with proven research and
development institutions.  Markets are well established and Vietnam  has a clear and increasing
comparative advantage in production cost over other regional producers who are reducing planted rubber
area as labor and land costs rise steeply. Smallholders have begun to show interest in this crop and have
planted about 17,000 ha. These plantings though of mixed quality because of insufficient credit and
inadequate technical assistance are suitable for maintenance and/or rehabilitation. Government policy
strongly supports the development of smallholder rubber and anticipates a long-run program of some
200,000 ha. This treecrop is environmentally suitable for the degraded uplands. This project would serve
as a demonstration phase spread throughout the provinces with proven potential, based on experience of
the former and existing plantations and applied research trials, and would need to be of adequate size to
enable each province to establish a minimum sustainable area to give valid results. The area per
province would vary from 1,500 ha to 15,1)00 ha in Dak Lak which already has the largest established
rubber inclustry. Rubber smallholdings, in contrast to large plantations, would be established as plots of
about 1 - 3 ha on average and up to a maximnum of 10 ha, scattered throughout several million hectares in
10 provinces, and would not displace oiLher crops or threaten biodiverse forests which would be
specifically excluded from eligibility for rubber development. Livestock activities were included in the
package because these are compatible with rubber growing, are well known to smallholders and
Vietnam's rising incomes guarantee a strong market. Short term crops such as cassava and maize are
also included because the Central Highlands is a food-deficit area and because these crops are also
suitable for livestock feed.
A third strategic choice related to the area of the project. Both the Central Highlands and adjacent
uplands of the Central Coast have per capita incomes of about 70% of the national average and have a
large proportion of the population without access to social services because of physical isolation or
custom. Forests in this area have suffered extensive degradation both as a result of defoliation during the
war and of intensive logging followed by shifting cultivation. The Government has promoted a program
to rehabilitate these hills through community-based reforestation, treecrops and biodiversity protection
for remaining forest (for example, the IDA.-financed Forestry Conservation Project). Rubber cultivation
fits well into this strategy and is already well-known as a major state-owned enterprise activity in that
area. No other crop was identified as being ready for large-scale promotion in the project area at this
time. It vvas decided that formulation of a suitable project for the Northern Highlands required further
work and therefore a component to identify a possible fruit industry development initiative in the North
was included under the project.



Page 5
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component               Category      Cost Incl.    % of   IDA-      % of
Contingencies  Total financing   IDA-
(US$M)            (US$M)  financing
Smallholder Rubber
Development
New Rubber Establishment    Credit               35.2      43      25.7      38
Rubber Rehabilitation       Credit               10.0      12      10.0      15
Rubber Extension            Institution           2.8      3       2.6       4
building, other
Rubber Research             Institution           1.8      2        1.7      3
building, other
Farn Tracks                 Physical              1.1      I        1.0       1
Subtotal                      50.9     61      41.0       61
Land Allocation                Institution           7.9      9        7.1      11
building, other
Agricultural Intensification /
Diversification
Crop & Livestock Extension    Institution         3.3      4        3.0      4
building, other
Credit for Annual / Perennial    Credit          13.7      16       7.7      12
Crop / Livestock Development
Pilot Fruit Tree Development   Other              1.0      1        0.9       1
Subtotal                      18.0     21       11.6      17
Institutional Strengthening
Support for Ethnic Minority    Institution        1.4      2        1.3      2
Participation               building, other
Human Resource Development  Institution           1.2      1        1.2      2
building, policy
Project Management          Project               4.9      6        4.7       7
management
Subtotal _     __              7.5      9       7.2       11
Total       84.3     100      66.9     100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would support a major policy change in the role of State Owned Enterprises (SOEs), owned
by MARD, in the rubber sector. At present, SOEs account for about 90% of the country's rubber area.
The Government program that the project would support aims to expand smallholder rubber to 50% of
the total area by 2010. By the close of the project, almost 25% of the planted area of rubber would be in
the smallholder sector. This would require a partial shift in institutional focus of the SOEs and MARD
from production to extension. A second major reform to be supported by the project would be the
introduction of long-term credit to smallholders. Long-term (>5 years) investment in agriculture has been
constrained because of the general unavailability of suitable credit to the private sector.



Page 6
3. Benefits and target population:
Economic Benefits:
* increased farm incomes for some 100,000 families, increase in non-farm service jobs; and
*  increase in stability of regional income through widening sources of agricultural income.
Social/Environmental Benefits:
*  increased participation of ethnic minorities in commercial agriculture;
*  increased land tenure security and community development; and
*  increased environmental protection through covering bare hills with trees and reduction of slash and
burn agriculture.
Other Benefits:
* institution building: promotion of dlecentralization in public administration, promotion of
participatory development, strengthening of extension and research capacity.
Target Population:
* Ethnic minorities and Kinh (Viet majority) smallholders and subsistence shifting cultivators in one of
Vietnamn's poorest regions.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangemnents:
Project oversight (policy guidance, etc.) would be the responsibility of the Inter-Ministerial Project
Steering Committee chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development and would include the
State Bank of Vietnam (SBV), the Ministries of Finance (MOF), Planning and Investment (MPI),
VBARD, GDLA, and CEMMA.
Project coordination. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would be established in Hanoi headed by the
Vice-Minister, in charge of agricultural production, directly responsible to the Minister. The PCU would
be responsible for overall coordination and supervision of provincial activities, procurement, research and
international technical assistance. In each of the 11 central project provinces, the Provincial Peoples'
Committee would establish a Provincial Project Steering Committee (PPSC) to ensure effective
coordination between different provincial departments and implementing agencies, and a Provincial
Project Management Unit (PPMU) to coordinate and supervise project implementation in the province.
Project impi'ementation. The PPMUs and MARD, through the provincial departments of agriculture, with
the technical assistance of rubber specialists from the General Rubber Corporation (GRC), local State
Rubber Companies (SRCs) and/or Provincial Rubber Companies (PRCs), would select participating
districts, communes and villages, based on land suitability and availability. PPMUs and provincial
departments of agriculture would identify farmers wishing to join the smallholder rubber development
program in the participating communes/villages, while VBARD would make the final selection based on
criteria to be included in a lending policy manual which was agreed during negotiations. GDLA and the
provincial departments of land management would be responsible for land allocation. VBARD would
provide long-term credit to farmers to finance the agricultural inputs required for the establishment,
rehabilitation and maintenance of rubber smallholdings, based on terms and conditions included in the
policy manual. VBARD would also provide short-term and medium-term credit to farners for the
development of annual and perennial crops and livestock, based on terms and conditions similar to those
applied under VBARD's general credit operations in the project area. SRCs or PRCs would be
responsible for the preparation and supply of rubber planting materials, while farmers would purchase
services for land preparation, fertilizers, agro-chemicals and other required inputs for the establishment,



Page 7
rehabilitation and maintenance of their rubber trees from local sources of their choice. Farmers would
provide their labor for planting and maintaining their rubber smallholdings. Provincial departments of
agriculture would be responsible for providing extension services to farmers, with the assistance of
SRCs/PRCs for rubber. GRC, with inputs from RRIV, would provide assistance on technical rubber
cultivation aspects, including the preparation of technical guidelines and inspection of rubber planting
materials, and would also assist each PCU with the technical management of the rubber program in their
province. RRIV and RIFAV would be responsible for implementing the adaptive rubber research
program and fruit tree development pilot, respectively.
On-lending arrangements for smallholder credit. The proceeds of the IDA Credit and AFD Credit, which
would be used to finance new smallholder rubber development (IDA and AFD) or rehabilitation (IDA),
and short- (IDA) and medium-term (IDA and AFD) sub-loans to farmers for annual and non-rubber
perennial crops and livestock, would be on-lent to VBARD in Dong by MOF under terms and conditions
agreed upon during negotiations and set out in a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, as follows: (i)for long-term
on-lending to farmers for rubber, the loan to VBARD would be for 20 years and would include a grace
period of 8 years on principal and interest, while the interest rate to VBARD would be at a fixed rate of
interest, reflecting the cost of funds in the market to the Borrower for similar purposes (AFD funds), plus
a spread to cover the Borrower's foreign exchange risk; and (ii)for short- and medium-term on-lending
to farmers, the loan to VBARD would be for 20 years with a grace period of five years on principal,
while the interest rate to VBARD would be variable and equal to the weighted average cost of funds of
similar terms in the Vietnamese banking system. VBARD would bear the credit risk for all sub-loans.
Upon approving farmer sub-loans, VBARD would disburse directly to farmers for new smallholder
rubber development or rehabilitation, or for annual and non-rubber perennial crops and livestock, using
its own funds, which would be reimbursed to VBARD through withdrawal from VBARD-managed
special account in respect of IDA funds or directly from AFD in respect of AFD funds. Funds would be
on-lent to smallholders at the VBARD published interest rates at the time of making the sub-loans.
Detailed sub-loan terms and conditions are set out in the lending policy manual discussed at appraisal and
agreed upon during negotiations and are based on: (i)for long-term on-lending to farmers for rubber, a
loan maturity period of up to 20 years, a grace period of up to 8 years on principal and interest, and a
variable interest rate, as published by VBARD. IDA would finance land preparation and related services,
fertilizers and agricultural inputs (except for rubber planting materials), while AFD would finance rubber
planting materials; and (ii)for short- and medium-term on-lending to farmers for crops and livestock,
general terms and conditions applied by VBARD in the project area, including a loan maturity period of
up to one year for short-term sub-loans financed by IDA, and from one to five years for medium-term
sub-loans financed by IDA and AFD, and a variable interest rate, as published by VBARD. The IDA free
limit sub-loans would be US$50,000 equivalent and US$20,000 equivalent for smallholder rubber sub-
loans and non rubber sub-loans respectively. The IDA Credit would finance up to 80% of total costs or
US$50,000, whichever is smaller, for rubber sub-loans, and up to 80% of total costs for non-rubber sub-
loans.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements. Financial records would be kept for all
project-related expenditures using generally accepted accounting principles. Two special accounts would
be established under the project for the IDA Credit and would be managed by MARD and VBARD, with
SBV as co-signer. The project accounts of MARD and VBARD would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA and the audit reports would be forwarded to IDA within six
months of the end of the financial year. MARD would be responsible for financial management,
reporting, supervision and auditing for the PCU, the PPMUs and all implementing agencies, with the
exception of VBARD which would be directly responsible for financial management, reporting,
supervision and auditing of all credit activities.



Page 8
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements. The project would support the development of M&E systems
and processes. Agreed performance indicators (see Annex 1) would be used to monitor and evaluate on
an ongoing basis project implementation progress and the achievement of project objectives. A two-tier
system would be maintained to monitor aggregate and provincial level project activities. The PCU would
be responsible for system design and ensuring that project provinces install and maintain adequate M&E
systems. The PCU would also be responsible for monitoring compliance with site selection criteria,
carrying out beneficiary surveys and impact assessment and disseminating results. Data collection,
validation and analysis would be the responsibility of the PPMU. Twice each year (by September 30 and
March 31), the PCU would send to IDA consolidated progress reports on project implementation and
results, using a format agreed with IDA. The results of the M&E would be used to regularly update the
Project Implementation Plan. Two major reviewvs of project implementation progress would be scheduled
at the end of the second and fourth years. An Implementation Completion Report would be prepared
within six months after Credit closing.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons fir rejection:
Project Design.
Alternatives rejected:
*  Nucleus Estate. SOE estate plants blocks of rubber for allocation to smallholders, which are
integrated into the estate planning, production and marketing. Rejected under the proposed project
because of high cost and weak ownership impact on beneficiaries.
* Land Development Authority. State land development agency carries out all operations through to
crop maturity when blocks turned over to farmers, provides housing, schools, etc. Rejected because
of very high overhead and social program cost, need for large contiguous areas of suitable unused
land, and weak ownership impact.
Alternative selected:
* Project Coordination Unit. PCU provides technical assistance to voluntary participants already
resident and using own community farmland, existing agencies (credit, land allocation, extension)
utilized. Low cost with main responsibility for programming, selection of sites and beneficiaries,
farmner training, monitoring and problem solving. Farmer fully responsible for crop establishment
and maintenance.
Project Management and Implementation.
Alternatives rejected:
*  Single Central PCU. One centralized PCU carrying out management/coordination functions for all
11 Provinces active in the project Rejected because of slow response to local situations.
*  SRC. Use the State-owned Rubber Companies as management agencies. Rejected because of
conflict of interest since these would also supply planting materials and extension services as well as
market outlets to beneficiaries.
Alternative selected:
* Decentralized PCU/PPMU. A light managennent/coordination office (PCU) would be established at
the national level within the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, while Provincial Project
Management Units (PPMUs) would be established to manage the program of each province.



Page 9
Project Financing.
Alternative rejected:
* Credit Line. Allocate a general line of credit to the project area. Rejected because credit would be
disproportionately taken up by less poor farmers for short-term activities. Little rubber would be
planted because of fear of large debt obligation during immature period.
Alternative selected:
* Directed Credit. Provide sub-loans at market interest rates for rubber and associated crops and
livestock. For rubber sub-loans, the project would introduce long-term credit specifically for rubber
development. For other crop and livestock activities, the project would support VBARD's ongoing
credit program in the project area (see Annex 5).
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                  Project          Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                             Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Shortage offarm credit, poor       Agricultural                S               S
agricultural extension and         Rehabilitation
inadequately maintained rubber     (Cr.2561-VN) FY 94
plantations.                       US$96m.
Weak internal management of banks    Payment System and        S               S
and poor customer service, slow    Bank Modernization
interbank payment system.          (Cr.2785-VN) FY 96
US$49m.
Weak rural health services, high   National Health             S               S
mortality and morbidity.           Support
Cr.4838-VN FY 96
US$101.2m.
Low rate ofprivate sector investment   Rural Finance           S               S
in rural areas, weak interbank     Cr.4847-VN FY 96
competition, and limited access ofpoor US$122m.
toformalfinance.
Poor maintenance of rural roads,   Rural Transport             S               S
linkages not complete, weak local  Cr.2929-VN FY 97
contracting capacity.              US$55m.
Other development agencies
Coffee Development                 AFD FY 96
Rural Credit.                      ADB FY 96
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
* Lesson 1: clear agreed project implementation procedures would need to be documented delineating
the detailed responsibilities of national and provincial implementing agencies, the project
coordination units at national and provincial levels, financial intermediaries and suppliers. Reflecting
this lesson, detailed implementation proceclures were discussed during appraisal and agreed during
negotiations, and will be incorporated into the revised project implementation plan, to be made
available to all participating entities.
* Lesson 2: clear procedures would need to be agreed upon and documented setting out details of the
flow of funds, including counterpart funds, through all levels. Reflecting this lesson, detailed fund
flow mechanisms were discussed during appraisal and agreed during negotiations, and will be
incorporated into the revised project impleimentation plan, to be made available to all participating
entities.
* Lesson 3: where there are many small scattered expenditures throughout mnany provinces, pre-
financing during implementation, using Government funds, prior to IDA reimbursement, would be
required to facilitate project implementation. Reflecting this lesson, detailed pre-financing needs
during implementation, and available sources of funds with terms and conditions, were identified
during appraisal and further discussed during negotiations.
*  Lesson 4: smallholders in Vietnam not normally considered creditworthy because of lack of collateral
have shown repayment performance equivalent to those with realizable assets (Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project) when using the joint-liability approach. Rural financial institutions are willing
to cooperate in this approach and have responded to institution building assistance.
* Lesson 5: assistance to extension services requires attention to the problems of decentralized budget
arrangements mentioned above. International technical assistance must be properly targeted to the
special circumstances of Vietnam in terms of small size of operation and appropriate technology.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Borrower financed the initial study of smallholder rubber development in the central highland and
coastal region in 1995/96, using the credit proceeds of the IDA-financed Agricultural Rehabilitation
Project (Cr. 2561 -VN), and organized two workshops with the project provinces concerned to discuss the
study's conclusions, which resulted in the formulation of agreed overall project objectives and
implementation arrangements. Staff from MARD and GRC together with international consultants, and
with the support of provincial authorities, carried out the detailed project preparation studies in 1997,
which were financed by AFD grant funds. MAIW's Minister appointed the Vice Minister, in charge of
agricultural production, to be responsible for project preparation within MARD and as the Head of the
future Project Coordination Unit. MARD, MPI, SBV, MOF, and all provincial aLuthorities concerned
have requested successive IDA missions to accelerate the processing of the project to ensure rapid
implementation start-up and contribute to achieving the national rubber development targets set by the
Prime Minister,
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bank support for the project enabled the Borrower to draw on the lessons from the Bank's worldwide
experience with smallholder rubber developmernt programs in the design of appropriate financing and
institutional arrangements. The Bank's presence also played a catalytic role in mobilizing support for the
sector from  the French co-financier and other donors.  Finally, the Bank's experience with the
coordination of similar programs would be most valuable to the Borrower during project implementation.



Page 11
E: Summary Project Analyses (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic Assessment (supported by Annex 4):
[x] Cost-Benefit Analysis : NPV=US$35.3 million; ERR= 13.4 % [ Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[ ] Other (Specify)
The project is economically viable with a base case scenario returning an NPV of US$35.3 million
equivalent at a discount rate of 10% and an ERR of 13.4 %. The economic rate of return for new rubber
production is 13% for the base case average yield of 1,120 kg/ha of latex equivalent. For rehabilitation of
already planted rubber, the ERR is 17% with past costs being treated as sunk costs. For annual crops and
livestock activities, the benefit/cost ratios of improved practices all exceed 1:1. The ERR is most
sensitive to assumptions on rubber yields and prices. While yield risk can be minimized through careful
site selection and competent extension services, cyclical price variations are a given in the rubber
industry. A fall in the long-run trend of rubber export prices of 20% would lower the project's ERR to
11%.
IRR %
Base Case
Whole Project            13.4
New Rubber               13
Rehabilitated Rubber     17
2. Financial Assessment (see Annex 5): NPV=US$3 5.3 million; FRR= 13.4 %
Farm Household Level. The FRR on farmers' equity (labor) is 25%. Without the project, the cropping
pattern would include rainfed rice, cassava and groundnuts. Farm income net of cash costs is estimated
to be about US$300/year utilizing about one half the family labor available, for a typical 1.5 ha upland
farm. With the project and during the rubber immaturity period, net farm incomes would be expected to
rise to about US$500/year utilizing about 80% of family labor available. By full development, returns
from rubber would lift farm family income to about US$1,100/year and would fully utilize available
family labor.
Debt Servicing. Rural interest rates in Vietnam are above the rate of inflation plus credit transaction
costs. In late 1997, the maximum published interest rate set by SBV for rural areas was 14.4% while
annual inflation was about 4% and transaction costs about 6% (for a discussion of the rural finance sector
see SAR No.15088-VN, Rural Finance Project, April 2, 1996). For annual crops and for livestock
activities, debt service analysis indicates that farmers would have no difficulty repaying loans at the
VBARD published rates of interest and loan terms. For rubber, however, care would be needed to ensure
that repayment terms and conditions are matched to the cash flow of the crop to avoid the need for
rescheduling. The analysis indicates that a grace period of up to 8 years on repayment of principal and
interest, at VBARD's published interest rates for long-term loans in rural areas, would be required and
that up to a further 10 years would be required to repay the loan entirely. Under these arrangements
farmers would, on the average, pay no more than 25% of their annual rubber income for debt service (see
Annex 5). VBARD's current practice of requiring at least a token contribution towards interest payments
during the grace period, would remain at VBARD's discretion. In addition, VBARD's current practice of
allowing a rebate on timely debt service payment (mountain area rebate) would continue, with the cost to
be borne by Government.
Cost Recovery. Full costs of smallholder sub-loans, including transaction costs and loan loss provision
would be recovered. Other costs, mostly Government services, would not be directly recovered. This
recovery amounts to 70% of total project costs. No special credit recovery arrangements are required as
existing arrangements are satisfactory and the incremental credit amount of US$58.9 million equivalent



Page 12
over 6 years can be absorbed with adequate iinstitutional support, especially training of credit staff in
long-term lending associated with rubber. VBARD has a large portfolio in the project provinces and a
comprehensive network of transactions offices and mobile bank branches. Total loans outstanding in
these provifices at the end of 1996 amounted to US$180 million equivalent over some 700,000 accounts.
Of this, short-term loans accounted for about 80% of total loans with medium-term loans up to 5 years
accounting for 20%. Overdues as a percentage of net amounts due at the end of 1996 varied from 1.61%
in Quang Tri to 14% in Thua Thien-Hue, for an average of 3.9% overall. Under the ongoing Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project, VBARD has about 36,000 smallholder accounts for short-term and medium-term
loans in these provinces. Overdues on project-financed smallholder loans are similar to those in the rest
of the portfolio and are less than 5% of amounts due with very little rescheduling and then only for one
further cropping season.
This good performance is due to the use of group guarantees (joint-liability groups) organized at the
commune level by mass organizations, principally the Vietnam Women's Union and the Farmers' Union
who may receive a fee from the bank for these services. Additionally, applicants for credit must be
certified by the commune committee that they are residents in good standing with the community. Use of
this system also lowers the transaction cost ior the financial intermediaries. tUnder the project, this
system would continue to be used since many project beneficiaries would be ongoing clients of the bank
while most new clients would also receive credit for annual crops and livestock. Good repayment
performance for the rubber loans would be a condition of eligibility for continued access to further short-
or medium-term credit. The combination of continued access to credit and community involvement in
loan placement and recovery would ensure credit discipline.
Impact on Financial Intermediary. While overall smallholder credit recovery has been quite good, this
project introduces very long-term credit and promotes a substantially new crop. Therefore the credit risk
is high. To protect VBARD, which would bear the credit risk, the bank would be responsible for the final
selection of the beneficiaries, while the Borrower would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Fiscal Impact. During the project period, Government would be expected to budget US$1.9 million
equivalent in total, mainly for operating costs; of land allocation, extension and research, and project
management for which there would be no cost recovery. The overall incremental amount to be financed
by Government is small. Adequate arrangements for Government's payment of taxes and duties of about
US$2 million in total were agreed during negotiations. After the closing of the project, the Government
would have to finance about US$6 million per year for a further 7 years for maintenance of immature
trees and about US$1 million per year for operating expenditures of extension and other services.
3. Technical Assessment:
Rubber has been exploited for about 100 years in the South East of Vietnam around Ho Chi Minh City
and over 50 years in the central highland. The country's favorable ecological condlitions for rubber have
been well demonstrated and no particular technical problems are expected with the proposed
development of new rubber in the project area. At present, estate yields are low at about 900 kg/ha in
1996, compared to the performance of commercial estates in Vietnam in the pre-war years (about 1,400
kg/ha) and other main rubber producing countries (1,600 kg/ha in Malaysia) mainly due to the shortages
of funds for fertilizers and herbicides which afi'ected the maintenance of young trees planted from 1975
to 1990. Average yields, however, have been progressively increasing, from 715 kg/ha in 1992,
reflecting the iincreased availability and use of agricultural inputs and improved tree maintenance, and the
general positive impact of the IDA-financed Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2561-VN) on the
rubber sector.
Most of the rubber area under smallholdings (about 10%) was planted within the last five years in the
South East and there are little available data on actual rubber performance under smallholder



Page 13
management in the central highland. No specific technical problems, however, are expected in this
respect, provided that farmers who are largely unfamiliar with rubber receive adequate technical support,
as designed under the project's rubber extension sub-component. Average yields would be expected
around 1,120 kg/ha, about 80% of achieved average smallholder yields in Bank-supported schemes in
Malaysia. These estimates are based on the results of ongoing field trials in the project area (Dak Lak
and Gia Lai provinces) monitored by RRIV since 1985, and the performance of the region's estates, and
after making appropriate downward adjustments for smallholder conditions, such as assuming that the
trees are opened for tapping in the eighth year after planting (instead of six or seven years under good
estate management).
No particular difficulties are expected with the implementation of other technical initiatives under the
project, including the intensification of annual crops and livestock activities, as these would be based on
existing extension programs.
4. Institutional Assessment:
a Executing agencies:
MARD currently coordinates provincial extension activities for annual food crops and livestock in all
regions of the country. With the proposed strengthening of extension services in the project provinces,
through hiring and training additional staff and the provision of transport and equipment, MARD and the
provincial departments of agriculture would have adequate capacity to deliver the required non-rubber
extension services to farmers. With regard to rubber, however, MARD has limited direct experience, but
with the technical assistance of GRC and the SRCs/PRCs, particularly to provide extension to rubber
smallholders during the critical first years after planting, and train extension staff of the provincial
departments of agriculture, MARD would have adequate capacity to coordinate the implementation of the
smallholder rubber development program. For credit activities, VBARD's capacity to implement the
project is considered to be adequate as the addition of about 50,000 new clients and some US$57 million
equivalent of incremental credit would only represent a small fraction of their current client base of over
3 million and loan portfolio of over US$1 billion equivalent. VBARD has transaction offices throughout
the project area. The main institutional development need would be in long term financing of smallholder
rubber. For land allocation, the capacity of GDLA and the provincial departments of land management,
strengthened with the provision of additional equipment and project funding of necessary land surveys
and measurements, would be adequate to meet project requirements.
b. Project management:
The proposed management structure is based upon that adopted under the successfully implemented IDA-
financed Agricultural Rehabilitation Project, with central Project Coordination Units within MARD and
VBARD, and Provincial Project Management Units in the eleven central project provinces. Staff from
the central PCUs improved their technical skills through on the job training or course attendance and are
familiar with IDA requirements for project implementation. At the provincial level, however, staff have
generally limited experience with internationally funded projects and would therefore need to be trained
under the project. With regard to procurement, the capacity of MARD is considered to be adequate for
this project, based on their successful performance under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project.
c. Financial management:
Financial management systems in place in MARD and VBARD were found to be adequate under the
IDA-financed Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2561-VN) and the independent auditors which
audited the project accounts of MARD and VBARD since 1995 would continue to provide auditing
services under the project. Although successive audit reports provided an unqualified opinion about
MARD's project accounts, MARD's financial reporting would be improved under the project through the
adoption of standards and formats, acceptable to the Bank. With regard to VBARD, external audits of the



Page 14
financial statements were received for 1994 and 1995 and the audit of the 1996 accounts by the same
international auditor is underway. In addition a detailed diagnosis of VBARD's financial management
systems was completed. The Diagnostic Report made comprehensive recommendations to modernize the
bank's operations and to integrate it into the banking system of Vietnam as a whole. These reforms are
being pursued under the IDA-financed Payment System & Bank Modernization Project (Cr. 2875-VN),
the Rural Finance Project (Cr. 2855-VN) and the AsDB-financed Rural Credit Project. For the immediate
needs of the project, interim accounting and reporting systems would be set up for VBARD's project
accounts (the project accounting and reporting systems would be further refined in response to additional
guidance expected to be issued within the Region). Their preparation and adoption by VBARD would be
a condition of disbursement against credit expenditures.
5. Social Assessment:
A social assessment was carried out during project preparation, including community and household
studies in eighteen villages, in the three central highland provinces and in one coastal province (Quang
Ngai), representing the region's different ethnic groups. The study described the various agricultural
production systems and assessed the scope for potential improvements, including the feasibility of
introducing smallholder rubber cultivation.  There seems to be a keen interest in agricultural
diversification among potential beneficiaries, either to reduce the risk for price fluctuations on coffee (in
Dak Lak ancl Gia Lai provinces), or for increasing incomes from relative infertile soils (Kon Tum
province). The social assessment provided an analysis of the possible benefits, which are increased
income and reducing seasonal income variations, and risks associated the project, and has been
particularly valuable in pointing to the issue of securing land use rights for the all current residents in
participating villages. As a consequence of the social assessment, the project includes a critical land
allocation activity, through which all farmers in project villages would be issued land use rights
certificates. The social assessment described the role of women as extensive in agricultural activities, and
particularly burdensome in shifting cultival:ion.  The employment opportunities created by the
introduction of cultivation of rubber is expected to benefit men and women equally. Furthermore, women
are usually responsible for domestic animals around the homestead, and since the project would
strengthen extension services for livestock, this is expected to be of particular importance for women's
income.
Ethnic Minorifties. The eleven project provinces can be classified into two relatively distinct groups: the
three highland provinces with a high concentration of ethnic minorities, and the eight coastal provinces,
where the overwhelming majority are ethnic Kinh, the majority ethnic group in Vietnam (approximately
87% of the total population). The highland provinces have experienced a high rate of in-migration by
Kinh, occupying land traditionally used for shifting cultivation by ethnic minorities. Whereas the villages
in the highland tend to be ethnically homogeneous, the communes, which is the lowest level of local
government, comprising between five to fifteen villages, normally are not ethnically homogeneous. More
than half of the area planned for the introduction of household based rubber cultivation would be in the
three highland provinces. Poverty is closely correlated to ethnicity, and the ethnic minorities in these
provinces are among the poorest in the country. This group is highly risk-averse and would be expected
to be slow in adopting new crops. The Kinh, on the other hand, are generally entrepreneurial and would
be expected to be more opportunistic.
The project has in-built mechanisms to provide appropriate conditions for the etlnic minorities to take
advantage of the opportunity of the smallholder rubber component, if they so wish: (i) the ongoing
program of land allocation would be supported and carried out in all villages, where rubber cultivation is
planned, based on current land use and participatory land use planning. All land in the village would be
allocated to uisers who could be individuals, households, extended ethnic groups, an organisation or
enterprise or the commune itself. In villages whtere shifting cultivation is the predominant practice, a large
area would be allocated inside which the community would be given the responsibility for sustainable land



Page 15
use. Through extension, a gradual development of more intensive land use practices would be promoted; (ii)
information campaigns about the project would be conducted in the local languages; (iii) all participation in
the project would be voluntary, and based on applications from farmers, who have been residing in the
village for a minimum of three years; (iv) recruitment of ethnic minority extension staff and training in
participation and cultural sensitivity would be carried out; (v) appointment and training of four full time
national ethnic minority/community participation staff, to be posted in the PCU and in each of the PPMUs of
the three highland provinces; and (vi) recruitment of an international Ethnic Minority / Community
Participation Specialist attached to the PCU for a period of three years to provide technical assistance and
training. These mechanisms, aiming at ensuring that indigenous ethnic minorities get benefits from the
project, in a manner appropriate and compatible with their cultural and social conditions, have been set forth
in the Ethnic Minority Development Plan, which was prepared in accordance with OD 4.20 on Indigenous
Peoples. The Ethnic Minority Development Plan, approved by the Minister, MARD, and acceptable to IDA,
which was submitted to IDA on February 3, 1998, was approved by Government on May 20, 1998.
Land acquisition. There would be no involuntary land acquisition under the project for the allocation of land
to establish smallholder rubber plantations.  Only voluntary participants from  established residents
(minimum three years) would be eligible for assistance. However, to enable farmers to transport planting
materials, bags of fertilizer, and other agricultural inputs to their fields, and to facilitate regular field visits by
extension agents, farm tracks may have to be constructed or upgraded for motorcycle use to a maximum
width of about two to three meters, which may, in few instances, require involuntary acquisition of strips of
land. Since the impact cannot be determined before beneficiaries have been selected, MARD prepared a
Policy Framework for Compensation of Project Affected People, on the basis of OD 4.30 on Involuntary
Resettlement, to address the issue of possible acquisition of strips of land. The Policy Framework for
Compensation of Project Affected People, approved by the Minister, MARD, and acceptable to IDA, which
was submitted to IDA on February 3, 1998, was approved by Government on May 20, 1998.
6. EnvironmentalAssessment: Environmental Category      [] A   [x] B   [ ] C
On the basis of the information available, including initial field visits, the project is expected to result in a
balance of beneficial environmental effects with limited risk of unanticipated adverse effects. The areas
being considered for development, particularly in the three central highland provinces, comprise land that
was cleared many years ago and is centrally located within existing farming areas rather than on the
periphery, at the boundary between agricultural and forested land where the risk of intrusion of project-
financed development in forested areas might otherwise be more significant. Areas identified as being
suitable for smallholder rubber development were selected on the basis of criteria reflecting a range of
environmental considerations including: land use (State Forests, Nature Reserves and National Parks
were excluded from consideration); land cover (only un-forested land was selected); slope (<20%); and
soil depth/texture (>1m/<85% sand). Provided these criteria are applied in the selection of individual
planting sites, adverse environmental impact potential in terms of biodiversity conservation would be
minimal while impact on soils would be minimal in the short term and beneficial in the long term (soil
erosion under perennial tree crops is significantly less than under Imperata grassland or secondary
regrowth). During preparation, over one third of all areas proposed for new rubber development under
the project, including all sites proposed for development in the four main project provinces within the
first three years, were inspected and confirmed to meet the site selection criteria. To ensure that the
criteria are rigidly applied in the selection of future sites, the PCU would be required to confirm to IDA
the compliance of all sites with the selection criteria, which were agreed during negotiations.
Other environmental aspects, which were considered during project preparation, include: (i) the design
and construction of farm tracks, where necessary, to minimize soil erosion; and, (ii) agro-chemical
handling, storage and use (some herbicide applications are likely to be necessary to control regrowth of
Imperata grass), would be addressed through a combination of appropriate training and technical
assistance during the implementation phase (a recent independent survey indicated that the quality of



Page 16
agro-chemical management and regulation in Vietnam is good by regional standards).
7. Participatory Approach:
Identification/Preparation   Implementation  Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups         CON                   COL              COL
Intermediary NGOs                       NA                   NA               NA
Academic institutions                  CON                   COL              NA
Local government                       CON                   COL              COL
Other donors (Agence Francaise         COL                   COL              NA
de Developpement)
CON=consultation; COL=collaboration; and NA=not applicable
a Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Poor farmers in the project area, including Kinh and ethnic minorities, would be the primary beneficiaries
under the project. In conjunction with the social assessment, consultation with the region's different
ethnic groups was carried out during project preparation in eighteen villages, selected in fifteen districts
proposed for rubber development in the first years of the project, in the three central highland provinces
and in one coastal province (Quang Ngai). The surveys showed, inter alia, that: (i) although rubber is a
little known crop in the smallholder environment and farmers are not able to accurately assess benefits
and constraints associated with this crop, its development generates keen interest as rubber is perceived
as one of the rare options for increasing farmers' incomes sustainably and significantly; and (ii) poor
farmers, particularly ethnic minorities, are generally unfamiliar with credit mechanisms. The project
design incorporates lessons from the consultation with the beneficiaries, such as: (i) providing repayment
schedules compatible with the crop cash flow including a long grace period and annual debt servicing not
to exceed more than about 25% of gross farm income from rubber in any year; (ii) minimizing the
amount of required credit by generally limiting the size of holdings to about one to three ha to ensure that
farmers can contribute their own labor and do not need to borrow for labor (decision to be made by
VBARD since it bears the credit risk); (iii) providing for information campaigns to reach all potential
beneficiaries; and (iv) recruiting ethnic minority / community participation specialists in the PCU and in
each of the PPMUs of the three highland provinces, as well as extension staiFf from ethnic minority
origins to enhance participation of ethnic minorities under the project. The participation of beneficiaries
in decisions regarding their interests would be sought during project implementation. The main vehicle
for this would be the Project Communal Working Group (PCWG), at the commiune level. The PCWG
would be composed of capable people who enjoy the respect and confidence of the local population with
representatives from local farmers organizations and the traditional leaders. Each ethnic group from the
participating villages in the commune would be represented. The role of the PCWGwould be to facilitate
and participate in: (i) land use planning and land allocation; (ii) information campaign activities; (iii)
identification of potential project beneficiaries; (iv) ensuring the co-ordination between the parties
affected by the project; and (v) settlement of conflicts relating to land distribution. In addition, the
PCWG would assist in co-ordination and monitoring of project activities.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Local Government and the co-financier constitute the other main key stakeholders. Provincial authorities
have provided strong support from the early stages of project preparation and were involved in the design
of the project, through information sharing amd consultation. In particular, proposed implementation
arrangements at the provincial level and the scope and schedule of the new rubber development program
directly reflect provincial authorities' views. The Agence Fran,aise de Developpement, the French co-
financier, participated in all successive Bankc missions and provided grant funds to finance detailed



Page 17
preparation studies. AFD was directly involved in designing the project and AFD's views are reflected in
the enhanced technical responsibilities given to GRC and SRCs/PRCs for providing rubber extension
during the first critical years and supplying rubber planting materials; the terms and conditions of the sub-
loans to farmers which include financial incentives; and the on-lending arrangements which minimize the
risks of VBARD.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability: The project would involve multiple agencies over many provinces dealing with
multiple components. It would also involve the expected participation of different ethnic groups whose
response to the project is uncertain. In addition, the project is centered on smallholder rubber, effectively
a new crop using long term credit which is a new instrument in rural Vietnam. Because of this
uncertainty, two major reviews of project implementation performance would be carried out at the end of
the second and fourth years. A major output of the project would be the development of a design for
sustainable large scale smallholder rubber development in Vietnam. Drawing on the lessons of previous
projects in Vietnam, it is already clear that the major considerations for sustainability on the part of the
Borrower are simplicity in project management, a clear delineation of inter-institutional responsibilities,
clear procedures for flow of funds between national, provincial and field level, and clear identification of
the source of those funds and procedures for their timely access. Since the investment period for rubber
incorporates planting followed by 7 years of maintenance, it would take 13 years from project start-up to
fully develop plantings established over 6 years. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
Government would be fully committed to support the project for the full 13 year period, and provide
funds in adequate amounts (estimated around US$40 million) to complete the pre-tapping maintenance of
the 60,000 ha of new rubber after the project closes in 2004. On the part of the beneficiaries, these would
be expected to invest their labor for about 8 years before getting a return from rubber and to be
committed to the investment for a minimum of 20 years. In order for them to sustain this effort, their full
confidence in the profitability of the venture would need to be maintained.



Page 18
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Critical Risks               Risk         Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective":
Long run decline in world rubber prices       M    Diversification of farm income sources
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs":
Credit terms and conditions prove to be      M    For rubber: small size of sub-loans (no
unattractive to smallholders                       labor) & rebate for on-time payment
(capital grant)
For annual/perennial crops: dissemination
of improved productivity packages
Inadequate maintenance of immature rubber     S    Extension services provided by rubber
trees                                              companies during first critical years after
tree planting
Slow land allocation                          S    Strengthening of capacity of provincial
departments of land management
Weak participation of ethnic minorities       S    Information campaigns in local languages
and recruitment of ethnic extension staff
Weak inter-institutional cooperation          M    Decentralization of coordination at
provincial level
Ainnex 1, "Critical Inputs" Cell:
Insufficient counterpart funds for operating costs    S    Detailed cost sharing and fund flow
arrangements agreed during negotiations
Overall Risk Rating    S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low .Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
(a) Mountain area rebate for on-time payment. Within Vietnam, GOV initiatives in mountainous areas
with a high concentration of ethnic minorities usually contain an element of explicit subsidy. This takes
the form of a rebate on part of the debt service paid at time of payment of the final instalment and applies
only for on-time payment. For rubber sub-loans, the rebate would be equivalent to 8% of the total
amount of principal and interest paid over the l ife of a 20 year rubber sub-loan expressed in present value
terms discounted at 10% per year. This rebate would be made at the tiroe of eaclh payment of principal
and interest clue. Without this rebate applying to rubber as for other crops, there would be a strong
disincentive to plant rubber.
In other countries, no smallholder rubber projects, Bank-supported or not, appear to have been financed
without some form of subsidies. Bank practice has been to move away from subsidies on interest rates to
subsidies in-kind. This does not appear to be feasible in Vietnam, since the subsidies on inputs,
particularly to SOEs, have been eliminated by Giovernment, in line with international advice.



Page 19
The proposed interest rate is equivalent to about 9% p.a. compound interest rate and would permit debt
servicing to be held at about 25% of the annual value of rubber production. At this level, cost recovery
through established and satisfactory credit mechanisms using joint-liability groups would be expected to
be high. Strong smallholder participation would facilitate reforms in the rubber sector.
(b) Treatment of Credit Risk. VBARD would bear the credit risk. The risk would be large since long-
term lending is new in Vietnam for smallholders and behavior is unknown. Many of the intended
beneficiaries, particularly ethnic minorities, have no experience with formal credit and smallholder rubber
does not have an established tradition in Vietnam. While credit repayment performance on non rubber
sub-loans at present is high with on-time recovery of about 95% of net amounts due, this is mostly for
short-term credit and more recently for medium-term credit. While expectations of good performance are
high, risk is substantial. To manage the credit risk, VBARD would be responsible for the appraisal of
each individual smallholder rubber sub-project and the final selection of beneficiaries.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
* establishment of central PCU and PSC;
* establishment of a sub-loan project implementation unit within VBARD;
* execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
* execution of the AFD Credit Facility Agreement.
2. Conditions of Disbursement:
* against smallholder sub-loans (disbursement categories 3 & 4): (i) adoption of revisions to VBARD's
lending policy manual, satisfactory to IDA, incorporating agreements on establishing sub-loan interest
rate structure and principles and sub-loan appraisal and approval procedures; and (ii) establishment of
VBARD's detailed project accounting and reporting systems, satisfactory to IDA.
3. Dated Covenants:
*  establishment of PPMU and PPSC in each central Project Province by December 31, 1998;
*  submission of training program by September 30 each year for the following year, commencing on
September 30, 1998;
*  submission of annual action plans and time-tables for land allocation by October 31 each year for the
following year, commencing on October 31, 1998;
*  submission of progress reports by March 31 and September 30 each year, commencing on March 31,
1999; and
*  submission of reports integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation of performance
indicators by March 31, 2001 and March 31, 2003, and review of the reports with IDA by June 30,
2001, and June 30, 2003.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [x] Not applicable.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation: satisfactory bidding documents used under the Agricultural Rehabilitation
Project (Cr. 2561 -VN) are. available for the procurement of vehicles, office equipment and most items
required under the proposed project.
[x] The draft Project Implementation Plan was found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.



Page 20
[x] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G): Not applicable.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[] The follco  g exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: None
Task Tea       :Pippe Boyer
Sec rManag            Fox
746 Country EIrector: Andrew Steer



Page 21
Annex 1
Project Desigi- Summary
Vietnam
Agricultural Diversification Project
Narrative Summary       Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Supervision   Critical Assumptions and
Risks
Sector-related CAS Goal                                                              (Goal to Bank Mission)
Increase and stabilize incomes   Average rural household real
and employment in rural areas  income increased by 12% by
of Vietnam                  2004.
Project Development                                                                 (Development Objectives to CAS
Objectives                                                                           Goal)
Diversify and intensify  1. Establishment of 60,000 ha.  Project to contract with entities  Assumptions:
agricultural production and  of new private rubber      such as Provincial Statistical    Institutional capacity at
thereby increase and stabilize   smallholdings, and     Bureaus                      national and, especially,
farmers' incomes and rural  rehabilitation of 17,000 ha of                           provincial levels is sufficiently
employment in poor central    existing rubber smallholdings   Household expenditure surveys  developed to undertake
highland and coastal provinces  in central highland / coastal                        decentralized rural
of Vietnam                  provinces of Vietnam by 2004  Independent monitoring     development
contractor
2. Number of cattle / pigs per                          Credit terms and conditions
farm household in project                               are sufficiently attractive to
provinces in central highland /                         smallholders
coastal provinces increased by
20% by 2004
Project Outputs                                                                      (Outputs to Development Objectives)
1. Establishment of         1. I New rubber development   PCU's 6 month progress report  Risk:
smallholder rubber sector in    # ha           Y                                     Long run decline in world
central highland and coastal    4,000     Dec. 31, 1999                             rubber prices
provinces of Vietnam           13,000     Dec. 31, 2000
26,500     Dec. 31, 2001
41,000     Dec. 31, 2002
60,000     Dec. 31, 2003
1.2 Rubber area being
rehabilitated / maintained
# ha          by
16,000    Dec. 31, 1999
15,000    Dec. 31, 2000
11,000    Dec. 31, 2001
7,000     Dec. 31, 2002
2,000     Dec. 31, 2003
2. Land allocated to        2.1 Land allocated to all   PCU's 6 month progress report
participating villages in central  farmers in at least 60 villages   with inputs from GDLA
highland and coastal project    by December 31, 2000, and
provinces                   300 villages by December 31,
2003
3. Improved profitability of    3.1 37,500 farmers applying    PCU's 6 month progress report
livestock production in central  improved cattle fattening
highland and coastal project    technology & 37,500 farmers   Provincial Departments of
provinces                   applying improved pig       Agriculture surveys
fattening technology by
December 31, 2003



Page 22
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Supervision     Critical Assumptions and
Risks
3.2 Average meat yields per
animal slaughtered in project
districts in central/coastal
provinces increased by 16% by
December 31, 2003.
4. Increasingly diversified  4.1 Decrease in concentration   PCU's 6 month progress report
sources of crop production for   of regional and average
farm households in central   household incomes from
highland and coastal project  Robusta coffee and rice by
provinces                    20% by December 31, 2003
5. Technical and economic    5.1 Fruit tree potential      PCU with inputs from RIFAV
data of suitability of fruit tree    assessment studies completed
development in northern      by December 31, 2002
Vietnam
6. Improved livelihood of    6.1 Reduce shortages of faod    Baseline survey, PCU's 6
ethnic minorities in project  for ethnic minorities in project   month progress report and
villages in central highland and  villages by at least 20%  independent monitoring
coastal project provinces                                  contractor
7. Improved human resources   7.1 Completion of trainin g  PCU's 6 month progress report  Assumption: MARD
management capacity in       needs assessment and                                        committed to implementing
Agriculture Sector / MARD    preparation of training pregram                             F[RD
by Dec. 31, 2002
Project Components                                                                      (Components to Outputs)
[See Annex 2 for a detailed description.]          _                     _
A. Smallholder Rubber Development
1. I Establishment of new    1.1.1 Preparation / timely    PCU's 6 month progress report  Risk: Real interest rates
rubber                       delivery of high quality      with inputs from GRC / RRIV   increase to levels which might
planting materials and reqaired                            be prohibitive to entry into
agricultural inputs                                        smallholder rubber sector
and/or debt servicing.
I . 1.2 Average girth one meter
above ground of new rubber                                 Risk: Poor maintenance
after planting:                                            during immature period
after planting    girti
I year         5 cm                                    Assumption: MARD and
2 years        13 cm                                    provincial authorities provide
3 years        20 cm                                    sufficient support for
4 years        27 cm                                   implementation of rubber
5 years        35 cm                                    development in project
6 years        45 cm                                    provinces.
1.2 Rehabilitation of existing    1.2.1 Timely delivery of
rubber smallholdings         required agricultural inputs
1.3 Provision of rubber      1.3.1 Four rubber Subjecl:    PCU's 6 month progress report  Assumption: Availability of
extension                    Matter Specialists trained by                               qualified extension staff
December 31, 1999            Provincial Departments of
1.3.2 26 district level field  Agriculture, PPMUs
extension staff trained by Dec.
31, 1999, 70 by Dec. 31, 2000,
150 by Dec 31, 2001, 300 by
Dec. 31, 2002, 450 by Der. 31,
2003



Page 23
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Supervision      Critical Assumptions and
Risks
1.3.3 Every year, 20% of
incremental new rubber
smallholders attend training
1.4 Rubber research program   1.4.1 Establishment and       PCU's 6 month progress report  Assumption: Availability of
monitoring of 50 field trials in   with inputs from RRIV    qualified research staff
both controlled and
smallholder conditions by
December 31, 1999
1.5 Construction / Upgrading    1.5.1 80% of new rubber area   PCU's 6 month progress report
of farm tracks                accessible by motorbike 9
months of year
B. Land Allocation
2.1 Allocation of land to all  2.1.1 Land allocation process   Provincial Departments of  Risk: Slow issuance of
farmers in project villages in    begun for at least 15 villages in  Land Management      LURCs will hinder
central highland and coastal  project area by June 30, 1999    PCU                        establishment of new
project provinces             2.1.2 Land allocation process                               smaltholder rubber plantations.
begun for all project villages
by December 31, 2003
C. Agriculture Intensification / Diversification
3.1 Strengthening of livestock   3.1.1 93 district extension  Provincial Departments of   Assumption: Qualified district
extension services in central  offices outfitted with extension   Agriculture             extension officers in place
highland and coastal project  equipment by December 31,     PPMUs
provinces                     2000                          PCU                           Assumption: MARD
Department of Extension has
capacity, at national and
provincial level, to effectively
implement multiple
demonstration sites
3.2 Demonstration of new      3.2.1 1 pig, I cattle         PCU's 6 month progress report  Assumption: Farmer
livestock techniques          demonstration sites carried out                             attendance satisfactory
per district annually, beginning
1999
4.1 Line of credit for        4.1.1 Annual increase in new    VBARD provincial branches    Risk: Real interest rates
intensification of annual /   loans for annual / perennial  PCU's 6 month progress report  increase to levels which might
perennial crops and livestock in  crop and livestock production                           be prohibitive to borrowing for
central highland and coastal                                                              annual / perennial crops /
project provinces                                                                         livestock and/or debt servicing.
4.2 Strengthening of extension   4.2.1 48 districts with    Provincial Departments of     Assumption: Availability of
services for annual / perennial   additional extension officers  Agriculture, PPMUs, PCU  qualified district extension
crops in project districts                                                                officers
5.1 Establishment of pilot fruit  5.1.1 20 demonstration sites  PCU's 6 month progress report
tree development program in    underway by December 31,     with inputs from RIFAV
northern Vietnam              2000
D. Institutional Strengthening
6.1 Support for participation of  6.1.1 Information campaign  PCU's 6 month progress report  Risk: Weak interest of ethnic
ethnic minorities             carried out in indigenous     and independent monitoring    minorities for project
languages in project communes  contractor
/ villages
7.1 Human Resources           7.1.1 Management/ technical    PCU                          Assumption: MARD
Development capacity building   curricula revised by December                             committed to implementing
31, 2001                                                    HRD



Page 24
Narrative Summary            Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring and Supervision         Critical Assumptions and
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __ ________ ________ _______R isk s
8.1 Project management           8.1.1 Disbursement consistent    Bank disbursement reports &       Risk: Weak inter-institutional
with PAD projections             PCU's 6 month progress report  cooperation
Critical Inputs
Counterpart funds            National / provincial budget     PCU's 6 month progress report  Risk: Funds unavailable
allocations made in line with
project disbursement estiniates
Project staff                PCU staffed by project                                             Assumption: Availability and
effectiveness and all PPMUs                                        timely selection of qualified
staffed by December 31, 1998                                       staff
Local experts (i.e. ethnic
minority specialists) appointed
consistent with PIP



Page 25
Annex 2
Project Description
Vietnam
Agricultural Diversification Project
Project Provinces:
The project area consists of: (a) eleven central project provinces, including the three central
highland provinces of Dak Lak, Gia Lai and Kon Tum, and eight provinces in the country's central
coastal region: Quang Binh, Quang Tri, Thua Thien Hue, Quang Ngai, Binh Dinh, Phu Yen, Khan Hoa
and Binh Thuan; and (b) seven northern project provinces, including Lang Son, Lao Cai, Nghe An, Phu
Tho, Son La, Thai Nguyen and Vinh Phuc.
Project Component 1: Smallholder Rubber Development - US$50.9 million (total cost of component)
This component is aimed at establishing a new smaliholder rubber sector in the country's poor
central region, through the development of new small rubber holdings in ten central highland and coastal
provinces and the rehabilitation and maintenance of existing ones in eight provinces. This component
consists of the following five sub-components:
(a)    Establishment of New Rubber Smallholdings - US$35.2 million
Description. The project would assist established small farmers, who depend on agricultural production
for their livelihood, and have access to land suitable for rubber cultivation and available labor, to plant
and maintain rubber trees for a total of about 60,000 ha in ten central project provinces (Khan Hoa
province would not be included under this component). Participants would be selected on a voluntary
basis, among poor and non-poor farmers resident in the participating villages for at least three years, and
would include Kinh and ethnic minorities. It is expected that the size of the rubber holdings would be
around one to three hectares per household on average and up to a maximum of 10 ha. Sites for the
establishment of small rubber holdings would be selected based on land suitability and availability,
environmental criteria including land use, land cover, and slope, proximity to the road network, and
should be located outside the concessions of existing rubber estates but within a radius of about 50
kilometers. Project assistance under this sub-component would include the provision of credit for quality
rubber planting materials, fertilizers, herbicides and small tools, and international technical assistance for
coordinating the implementation of the program and establishing and monitoring technical standards.
Implementation Arrangements. New rubber development would start in the second project year in four
provinces, which account for 70% of the total rubber area to be planted under the project, and consist of
the three central highland provinces (Dak Lak, Gia Lai and Kon Tum) and one coastal province (Quang
Ngai). Rubber development would then be phased to include all ten participating provinces by the fourth
project year, based on provincial smallholder rubber development potential and implementation capacity.
The PPMUs and MARD, through the provincial departments of agriculture, with the technical assistance
of rubber specialists from the General Rubber Corporation (GRC), local State Rubber Companies (SRCs)
and/or Provincial Rubber Companies (PRCs), would select participating districts, communes and villages,
based on land suitability and availability. PPMUs and provincial departments of agriculture would
identify farmers wishing to join the smallholder rubber development program in the participating
communes/villages, while VBARD would make the final selection based on criteria to be included in a
lending policy manual which was agreed during negotiations. VBARD would provide long-term credit to
farmers to finance the agricultural inputs required for the establishment, rehabilitation and maintenance of
rubber smallholdings, based on terms and conditions included in the policy manual. SRCs or PRCs
would be responsible for the preparation and supply of rubber planting materials, while farmers would



Page 26
purchase services for land preparation, fertilizers, agro-chemicals and other required inputs for the
establishment and maintenance of their rubber trees from local sources of their choice. PPMUs would
encourage the consolidation of procurement of fertilizers and other inputs to the maximum possible.
Farmers would provide their labor for planting and maintaining their rubber smallholdings. GRC would
provide assistance to each PPMU for the technical management of the smallholder rubber development
program in their province.
(b)    Rehabilitation of Existing Rubber Smallholdings - US$10.0 milliion
Description. The project would assist rubber smallholders in rehabilitating and maintaining about 17,600
ha of established small rubber holdings in eight central project provinces (there are no established rubber
smallholdings in Binh Dinh, Phu Yen and Khan Hoa), through the provision of long-term credit for
fertilizers, herbicides and other agricultural inputs. Only potentially viable rubber holdings (with at least
300 trees per hectare in the third year after planting) would be rehabilitated and maintained. It is
estimated that an average of US$480 per ha would be necessary, corresponding to about 40% of the
cost/ha of materials for establishing a new rubber holding.
Implementation Arrangements. The provincial departments of agriculture, with the assistance of local
SRCs or PRC's, would survey the existing rubber smallholdings during the first project year and
determine their needs for rehabilitation and maintenance. The rehabilitation program would start in the
first year in all eight central project provinces with existing smallholder rubber. Arrangements for credit
would be similar to those adopted for the establishment of new rubber holdings. In particular, farmers
would provide their labor for rehabilitating and maintaining their rubber holdings and would be
responsible for procuring fertilizers and other inputs from sources of their choice.
(c)    Upgrading of Farm Access Tracks - US$1.1 million
Description. Farmers would need to transport the inputs (planting materials, fertilizers, herbicides and
other inputs) required for the establishment of new rubber holdings from central areas in participating
villages to their plots of land by bicycle or motorbike using farm access dirt tracks. Extension staff
would also need motorbike access to farmers holdings to provide technical support in the field. The
project would support the upgrading of existing farm tracks, and the construction of new farm tracks
within the village land area, by financing labor and the limited use of compacting machinery, whenever
required. Tracks would be 2 to 3 meter wide and compacted with local materials. The project, however,
would not finance the upgrading of village access roads. While the location of rubber holdings and
accurate requirements for access would only be determined during implementation after participants have
been selected, a provision has been included under the project for the construction of about 400 km of
new farm tracks and rehabilitation of 400 km of existing tracks.
Implementation Arrangements. The required access tracks should be identified and traced during the
survey and mapping of land and localization of rubber holdings in participating villages (see land
allocation component). The PPMUs, with the assistance of the agricultural extension staff (and staff from
the Transport Division at the district level) would be responsible for planning and selecting contractors
for the work. To address the possible involuntary acquisition of strips of land, MA:RD prepared a Policy
Framework for Compensation of Project Affected People, on the basis of OD 4.30 on Involuntary
Resettlement. The Policy Framework for Compensation of Project Affected People, approved by the
Minister, MARD, and acceptable to IDA, which was submitted to IDA on February 3, 1998, was approved
by Govemment on May 20, 1998.
(d)    Rubber Extension - US$2.8 million
Description. As the majority of farmers in the central project provinces are unfamiliar with rubber
cultivation, the project would provide technical support to farmers for land preparation, planting and
maintenance o;f new small rubber holdings as well as for the rehabilitation and maintenance of existing



Page 27
holdings. The project would build the capacity of the provincial departments of agriculture to provide
effective extension services for rubber through the training of rubber subject matter specialists (SMS) at
the provincial level, the recruitment and training of district extension workers (1 for 500 ha of new
rubber), the selection and training of farmer leaders (1 for 50 ha) in participating villages and the
provision of transport and communication equipment and materials. The project would also build the
capacity of VBARD to provide long-term credit for rubber development through staff training. Project
assistance would consist in the provision of transport equipment, information campaign materials,
training, national and international technical assistance, and operating expenditures.
Implementation Arrangements. At present, the provincial departments of agriculture do not have staff
specialized in rubber cultivation and cannot provide the required technical support to farmers. GRC, with
inputs from RRIV, would provide assistance on technical rubber cultivation aspects, including the
preparation of technical guidelines and the inspection of rubber planting materials. Local SRCs and
PRCs would be contracted by the PPMUs to provide direct extension services for the first two years,
including the establishment and the first year of maintenance of the new rubber (one staff for 500 ha), and
technical support to extension staff and farmer leaders during the following maintenance years. SRCs
and PRCs would also be contracted by the PPMUs to train extension staff from the provincial
departments of agriculture. In the first year, each SRC/PRC staff responsible for 500 ha of new rubber
would provide on the job training to two trainee extension staff. In the second year, each trainee would
then be responsible for 250 ha of maintenance and 250 ha of new rubber under the direct field
supervision of the SRC/PRC staff. From the third year onward, trained extension staff would be fully
responsible for rubber extension at a rate of one staff for 500 ha, but would continue to receive technical
assistance from SRC/PRC staff during their regular visits to rubber holdings. Rubber extension staff
would undergo short training courses offered by RRIV or GRC during their first two years, while SMS
would be given specialized rubber training abroad. Farmer leaders would be selected during the first year
by the SRC/PRC staff and trainee extension staff, based on their leadership and technical skills. They
would receive short in situ training.
(e)    Smallholder Rubber Research - US$1.8 million
Description. An adaptive research program would be carried out under the project to test and recommend
agricultural technical practices for rubber, associated annual and perennial crops and farming systems, to
suit the project area's ecological and socio-economic conditions. The program would consist of: (i) basic
research trials, aimed at assessing the responses of plants to various treatments under controlled
environment; (ii) adaptive research, aimed at assessing the performance of different agricultural technical
practices under smallholder conditions; and (iii) participatory research, aimed at developing and assessing
technical options in response to farmers' needs. Project assistance would consist in the provision of
agricultural, scientific, office and transport equipment, materials, training, international technical
assistance, and operating expenditures.
Implementation Arrangements. The PCU would contract the implementation of research activities to
RRIV for agronomic research on rubber cultivation, and other national research institutes for research on
coffee in association with rubber, annual and perennial crops and farming systems. Two international
research specialists would be seconded to the project and grant funded by CIRAD, including a senior
rubber research specialist to assist with the coordination of the research program and one senior farming
systems specialist to develop a farming systems research program and train national researchers.
Project Component 2: Land Allocation - US$7.9 million (total cost of component)
Within the central project provinces, informal allocation of agricultural land is generally accepted by
the farmers, though land disputes are common, especially where there are large numbers of recent migrants.
However, it has been demonstrated elsewhere in Vietnam that allocation of secure long-term land use rights



Page 28
certificates can: (i) promote stable long-term land use; (ii) encourage investment in improvements to land
which will lead to increased productivity and economic growth; (iii) reduce the number of disputes between
land users; and (iv) reduce the opportunity for invward migration. The component's objective is to promote
conditions for sustainable social and economic development through the establishment of long-term land use
rights certificates, and reduce opportunity for migration into the project area.
Description. The project would support the survey and mapping of land in villages selected for rubber
development and the issuance of land use certificates to farmers. The approach and methodology
proposed for the land allocation process is consist-nt with the general principles of Vietnamese land reform
which include the allocation of all land to responsible users and the development of a modem land
management administration which can support and guide the transition to a market economy. The
methodology proposed has been used by several donor financed projects. Key features of the land
allocation process are that it would be carried out at the village level, be based on village land use planning,
and that all land in the village would be allocated to households or other units at the same time. All land in
the village would be allocated to users who could be an individual, a household, an extended group or tribe,
an organisation or enterprise or the commune itself. Land use certificates would be issued for twenty years
for annual crops and fifty years for rubber. The issuance of a temporary land use certificate would be
required before a farmer could be eligible for project-supplied credit for annual crops, rubber or other
perennial crops. Project assistance would include the funding of field activities for land survey and
mapping, and the provision of equipment to strengthen the provincial land management departments.
Implementation Arrangements. Villages selected for the project would all be covered by land allocation
activities as an initial activity. The land use planning and land allocation process is expected to be
completed over a period of about two to three months per village. Overall co-ordination of the land
allocation process would be provided by the PP:MUs. Implementing responsibility would be assigned to
GDLA and the provincial land management depa,rtments, whose staff, with the assistance of the provincial
departments of agriculture, would train district and commune staff. A District Allocation Team from the
land management and agricultural extension services at the district level would be formed (with support at
the provincial level) and, in co-operation with the commune cadres, would carry out the integrated land use
planninig and land allocation in the involved villages, using Participatory Rural Appraisal methods. Tlle
teams would prepare the material for the Project Communal Working Group, which would be elected in
each commune. The land allocation process in the project villages would be finalized with the issuance of
long-tern land use rights certificates which would give the user the rights and responsibilities as defined in
the Land Law. The village land use planning/land allocation processes would make use of existing
topographical and cadastral maps.  The GD:LA would complete a nation-wide program  of aerial
photograplhy over the period 1996-2000 together with progressive cadastral mapping of urban and priority
rural areas. Project staff would benefit considerably from availability of up-to-date aierial photography and
accurate photo maps as these become available. Other training courses would be provided through MARD
and GDLA based on ongoing development activities drawing on the experience other projects involving
land allocation.
Project Comlponent 3: Agriculture Intensification/Diversification - US$18.0 million (total cost of
component)
This component consists of the following three sub-components:
(a)    Crop & Livestock Extension - US$3.3 million
Description. The project would provide technical support to small farmers for the intensification of crop
and livestock production in the central project provinces.  Project assistance would conlsist in the
dissemination of information, establishment of livestock demonstrations, whichi would be particularly
focused on fattening cattle and pigs usitig local feed materials, parasite control and artificial inseminationi,



Page 29
and training of farmer leaders. While priority would be given to participating communes in the new
rubber development program, livestock demonstrations would be established in the eleven central project
provinces. The project would also strengthen the capacity of crop and livestock extension services at the
national, provincial and district levels, through staff training, the recruitment of contract extension staff,
and the provision of transport, equipment, materials and, for livestock extension, international technical
assistance.
Implementation Arrangements. MARD's department of extension would be responsible for technical
coordination and detailed design of the program, PPMUs would be responsible for coordinating the sub-
component in their province, while the provincial departments of agriculture would be responsible for
field implementation. For annual and perennial crops, extension activities would start in districts and
communes selected for new rubber development as soon as land has been allocated to farmers and land
preparation for rubber has started, while livestock demonstrations would be progressively established in
all districts (one or two demonstrations per district) over the first two project years, with priority given to
the districts and communes with new smallholder rubber development. Farmer leaders would be selected
by extension staff to supplement the extension coverage, and to host the livestock demonstrations.
(b)    Credit for Annual/Perennial Crop and Livestock Development - US$13.7 million
Description. The project would provide a line of credit with VBARD for short-term and medium-term
sub-loans to assist participating rubber smallholders in increasing farm income obtained from annual
crops (rice, maize, groundnuts), perennial cash crops (coffee or fruit trees), and livestock production,
during the immature period of the rubber trees. The line of credit would also be available for crop
intensification activities to all non rubber growers in the districts participating in the new smallholder
rubber development, and for livestock production activities to all farmers in the eleven project provinces.
Implementation Arrangements. Short-term and medium-term credit would be made available to farmers
by VBARD under applicable commercial terms and conditions.
(c)    Pilot Fruit Tree Development - US$1.0 million
Description. The country's northern region has a potential for fruit tree development, which is not
currently exploited. A small pilot program would be carried out under the project, to confirm the regional
potential for the development of currently imported, mainly sub-tropical and temperate fruit trees in the
country's northern region and collect technical and socio-economic data required for the future
consideration of a possible large scale fruit tree development program, in the context of Government's
agricultural diversification policies. The main fruits assessed under the pilot program would include
citrus, mango, prune, pear, peach, apricot and kaki. The pilot program would consist in the establishment
and monitoring of nurseries, field trials under controlled conditions and demonstrations under farmer
management in seven northern project provinces (Lang Son, Lao Cai, Nghe An, Phu Tho, Son La, Thai
Nguyen and Vinh Phuc), and technical and economic evaluation studies. Project assistance would
include the provision of civil works, transport, equipment, materials, training of researchers, extension
staff and farmers, international technical assistance and operating expenditures.
Implementation Arrangements. The Research Institute for Fruits and Vegetables (RIFAV), with the
assistance of the National Institute of Plant Protection (NIPP), would be responsible for implementing the
sub-component, under the direct coordination of the central PCU. Implementation of the pilot would start
during the first project year with the establishment of nurseries and field trials/demonstrations. Fruit tree
potential assessment studies would be completed by December 31, 2002.



Page 30
Project Component 4: Institutional Strengthening - US$7.5 million (total cost of component)
This component consists of the followingl three sub-components:
(a) Support for Ethnic Minority Participation - US$1.4 million
Description. Trhe Ethnic Minority Development Plan (EMDP) prepared under the project is aimed at
ensuring that the indigenous populations would receive social and economic benefits from the project,
compatible with their culture, and that they would not suffer negative effects from the project. The
component includes the activities that are exclusively designed to support the participation of ethnic
minorities in the project, consisting of: (i) training and strengthening the institutional capacities of the
ethnic minority communities; and (ii) enhancing the capacity of project government departments to reach
and provide appropriate services to the minority communities. The component would specifically
provide for the appointment of four full time nai.ional ethnic minority/community participation staff, to be
posted in the PCU and in each of the PPMUs of the three highland provinces, the recruitment of extension
workers of ethnic minority origin at the district and commune levels, staff training, the development of
information material in local language, the monitoring of implementation of the EMDP, and funds for
community infrastructure in ethnic minority villages. An ethnic minority & community participation
specialist would be internationally recruited and attached to the PCUfor a period of three years to provide
technical assistance and training The component does not includes those development activities under the
EMDP that are built into the project as a whole, such as information dissemination and awareness raising
and the allocation of land use rights to the whole commune, which are not exclusively designed for ethnic
minorities, but which facilitate the participation of ethnic minorities in the project.
Implementation Arrangements. The PPMU ethnic minority & community participation specialists would
be responsible for the implementation of the component, under the overall guidance of the PCU's ethnic
minority & community participation specialist. In particular they would identify and assess the needs of
ethnic minority communities and would create awareness and develop organizational capacities within
the traditional village and other organizations. They would also coordinate and contribute in the training
of extension and other concerned government department staff. Independent local agencies, specializing
in the problems of ethnic minorities, would be hired by the PCU to carry out assessment studies on the
impact of the project at the end of the second and fourth years.
(b) Human Resource Development - UJS$1.2 million
Description. The component would contribute to the longer term process of upgrading the quality of
management skills in the agricultural sector, by, building on the program begun under the ongoing IDA-
financed Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2561-VN). The component would include: (i) a sector
wide education/training needs assessment to identify gaps in staff knowledge and skills as they relate to
the new structure of MARD and to the type of extension and other support being offered to farmers in the
main agro-economic zones of the country; (ii) curriculum revision in key ministry education and training
institutions to match the future needs of sector development; (iii) training of trainers and provision of
limited basic teaching equipment; and (iv) a study of the agricultural extension systems. Project
assistance would consist in the provision of equipment, training, national and international technical
assistance, and operating expenditures.
Implementation Arrangements.   MARD's Department of Personnel would be responsible for
implementing the component, under the coordination of the PCU. Implementation would start in the first
project year with a key study of the agricultural extension systems. This would be followed in order by a
training needs assessment and curriculum revision.



Page 31
(c) Project Management - US$4.9 million
The project would be placed under MARD, where a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would be
responsible for the overall coordination of project implementation. The establishment of the central PCU
would be a condition of effectiveness. The PCU would be headed by the Vice Minister in charge of
agricultural production and would be based in Hanoi, with a technical office in the central project
provinces. VBARD would establish a central project implementation unit in Hanoi, to coordinate all
credit activities. In each of the 11 central project provinces, the Provincial Peoples' Committee would
establish a Provincial Project Steering Committee (PPSC) to ensure effective coordination between
different provincial departments and implementing agencies, and a Provincial Project Management Unit
(PPMU) to coordinate and supervise project implementation in the province. The PCU and PPMUs
would include full time staff from MARD. The PCU would also include internationally recruited
specialists in the areas of: smallholder rubber development, financial management, accounting and
monitoring and evaluation. Each PPMU (with the exception of Khan Hoa) would receive direct
management support from GRC for the coordination of the smallholder rubber development program in
the province.  Project assistance would consist in the provision of office and transport equipment,
training, studies, national and international technical assistance, and operating expenditures.



Page 32
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Vietnam
Agricultural Diversification Project
Project Componen                                        Local          Foreign       Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
Smallholder Rubber Development Component
New Rubber Establishment                                11.06            21.00      32.06
Rubber Rehabilitation                                    0.93             8.40       9.33
Rubber Extension                                         2.16             0.45       2.61
Rubber Research                                          1.19             0.50        1.69
Farm Tracks                                              0.68             0.29       0.97
Subtotal Smallholder Rubber Development                 16.02            30.64      46.66
Land Allocation                                          6.02             1.31       7.33
Agricultural Intensification/Diversification
Crop & Livestock Extension                               1.97             1.10       3.07
Credit for Annual / Perennial Crop / Livestock          13.70             0.00       13.70
Development
Pilot Fruit Tree Development                             0.52             0.46       0.98
Subtotal Agricultural Intensification/Diversification   16.18             1.56      17.74
Institutional Strengthening
Support for Ethnic Minority Participation                0.51             0.81       1.32
Human Resource Development                               0.06             1.11        1.17
Project Management                                       2.20             2.38       4.58
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening                     2.77            4.30        7.07
Total Baseline Cost     40.99           37.81       78.80
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00             0.00       0.00
Price Contingencies                                      2.37             3.11       5.48
Total P?roject Cost    43.36            40.92      84.28



Page 33
Annex 4
Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Vietnam
Agricultural Diversification Project
(US$ Million in 1997 Constant Dollars)
Present Value of Incremental        Fiscal Impact
Flows @ 10% in US$m.                  US$
Economic       Financial
Analysis       Analysis       Taxes          Subsidies
Benefits
221.2          221.2          2.0 1/         1.9 2/
Costs                                                               4.4 3/
185.9          185.9
Net Benefits:           35.3           35.3
IRR:                    13.4 %         13.4 %
1/ Taxes defined as duties and taxes on project investment items and taxes and levies on
production and land.
2/ Subsidies defined as net budget outlay during project period.
3/ PV at 10% of capital grant for on-time payment of loans.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The project is economically viable with a base case scenario returning an NPV of US$35.3 million
equivalent at a discount rate of 10% and an ERR of 13.4 %. The economic rate of return for new rubber
production is 13% for the base case average yield of 1,120 kg/ha of latex equivalent. For rehabilitation of
already planted rubber, the ERR is 17% with past costs being treated as sunk costs. For annual crops and
livestock activities, the benefit/cost ratios of improved practices all exceed 1:1.
IRR%
Base Case
Whole Project             13.4
New Rubber                13
Rehabilitated Rubber      17
Sensitivity Analysis on Critical Items:
Sensitivity analysis indicates the rate of return is most responsive to changes in assumptions about rubber
yields and prices. The long-run yield curve would have to fall more than 20% over the full life of the
trees over the entire project area to switch the ERR from accept to reject. Yield forecasts are
conservative and are derived from Vietnam's long history of rubber growing and proven research results.
Similarly, at the base case medium rubber yield level, a secular fall in rubber export prices of 20% would
lower the ERR to 11%. A fall of this magnitude lies outside the 70% probability distribution of the price
trend indicated by simulation analysis of rubber commodity prices.



Page 34
- IRR % -
High Yield       Medium Yield         Low Yield
Projected Latex Price         16                13.4                11
10% Lower Price               15                13                  8
20% Lower Price               13                 11                 6
Production. Rubber production would begin in 2007 and would peak in 2016 giving some 96,000 tons of
rubber (new plus rehabilitation production ) annually worth about US$70 million per year in 1997 export
prices. Annual production of rice would increase by 23,000 tons, maize by 20,000 tons, groundnuts by
8,000 tons and cassava by 50,000 tons.
Markets. In 1996, Vietnam produced 122,000 tons of natural rubber out of world production of 6.6
million tons, about 2% of total. The incremental rubber produced under the project would be a major
increase in Vietnam's output, a two thirds increase, but represents only 1% of world production and
would be less than the annual decline in production in other traditional growers in the region. The long-
term outlook for rubber is that high- cost producers will continue to restructure giving low-cost
producers, such as Vietnam, an opportunity to increase market share without increasing downward
pressure on prices. The upward pressure on oil prices is expected to keep natural rubber competitive with
synthetic rubber. Annual crop production represents only a small fraction of Vietnam's 27 million tons
annual output and would be consumed in the ifood and animal feed deficit project area.
Employment. The rubber component alone requires about 7 million days of labor equivalent to some
25,000 full time jobs as farm laborers and tappers. In addition, increased annual crops and livestock
would also increase labor demand. Another 500 - 600 full time jobs would be created to support the
project among suppliers, extension and other 'government services, and in direct project administration.
Main Assumptions:
All costs associated with the project are included for a period of 28 years corresponding to the economic
life of a rubber tree. Tradeables are priced in US$ at the border and non-tradeables (chiefly labor) at the
domestic market price converted to US$ equivalent using the official exchange rate with exchange rate
forecasts calculated on the basis of the difference between domestic and international inflation. The
official exchange rate approximates the opportunity cost of foreign exchange. Market prices are assumed
to approximate opportunity cost prices since there are no significant distortions in markets for labor and
rubber inputs and outputs, the major determinants of project viability. Export prices for rubber are passed
to the farmer with normal deductions for transport and processing. The implicit SCF is 1. An OCC of
10% is used. Domestic inflation is assumed to hold at about 6% per year while long run international
inflation would be about 2% per year.



Page 35
Annex 5
Financial Summary
Vietnam
Agricultural Diversification Project
Farm Income Analysis. Detailed farm budgetary analysis has been carried out based on information from
interviews with farmers, suppliers, extension and other service agency personnel, staff of VBARD,
commune committees and others as well as from formal statistics and from the work of the preparation
team. The data used have several times been validated in the field. The FRR on farmers' equity is 25%,
at market interest rates. A typical upland farm suitable for rubber development would be about 1.5 ha in
size. Without the project, the cropping pattern would include rainfed rice, cassava and groundnuts. Farm
income net of cash costs is estimated to be about US$300/year utilizing about one half the family labor
available. With the project, beneficiaries would be allocated an additional 1 ha of commune land suitable
for tree crops and would plant rubber using project-supplied farm credit and previously underutilized
family labor. Short-term and medium-term credit would also be used to improve annual crop husbandry
with well known technology packages. During the rubber immaturity period, net farm incomes would be
expected to rise to about US$500/year utilizing about 80% of family labor available. Returns from rubber
would lift farm family income to about US$1,100/year and would fully utilize family labor available.
Debt Servicing. For sub-loans, the terms and conditions would be the samne as for non- project lending
for the same purpose. The interest rates would be variable and would be the VBARD published interest
rates applying in mountain areas. This would include the established rebate for on-time payment of loans
in the form of a capital grant. Under the proposed project, this practice would be continued to encourage
farmers to participate. The NPV of the rebate is US$73/ha, equivalent to a capital grant of about
US$275/ha over about 20 years, while the NPV of the total investment cost (materials plus labor) is about
US$1,300/ha, to give a subsidy of 6% on the total investment cost at farm level over 20 years. The
effective compound interest rate (before application of the rebate), would be about 9%, which is positive
in real terms and includes a margin to cover transaction costs. There is strong demand for short- and
medium-term credit and on-time repayment is above 95% of amounts due. With the September 1997
long-term interest rates for the rural areas of 14.4% p.a. (simple interest), farmers should be able to
borrow and service the debt for rubber through borrowing only for cash costs which constitute about 60%
of on-farm development costs. The analysis indicates that, at medium yields, about 25% of total annual
rubber production would be needed to service the debt (8 years grace on P&I) which would be amortized
over a further 10 years.
Impact on Financial Intermediary. VBARD has had little experience in lending for rubber and many of
the expected beneficiaries would have had no credit history. To minimize production risk, field level
committees comprised of technical agencies and others would assist the bank in rubber sub-project
evaluation, supervision, and selection of eligible communes, and the project includes funds for training
bank staff in long-term sub-loan appraisal and risk management. Nevertheless, there remains a large
degree of uncertainty about the size of the credit risk to be encountered and VBARD would reserve the
right for final sub-borrower selection and sub-loan approval.
Fiscal Impact. The impact on Government's own resources is relatively small during the project period.
The total project cost is estimated to be US$84.3 million over the period 1998 - 2003 (Table 2). The total
investment cost is estimated to be US$79.3 million and total recurrent cost would be US$5.0 million.
Government would be expected to budget US$1.9 million equivalent in total, mainly for operating costs
of land allocation, extension and research, and project management for which there would be no cost
recovery. Post-project investment costs would be US$6 million per year to support maintenance during
immaturity and operating costs would be about US$1 million per year. The overall amount to be



Page 36
financed by Government during the project period is relatively small. Adequate arrangements for
payment of taxes and duties of about US$2 million in total were agreed during negotiations.
Cost Recovery. The cost of smallholder sub-loans would be recovered in full by VBARD. The cost of
the rebate and other costs, mostly Government services, would not be recovere,d. This recovery amounts
to about US$58.9 million out of a total project cost of US$84.3 million, equal to 70%. Credit recovery
would be through the normal VBARD system, which is satisfactory to IDA. VBARD has a large
portfolio in the project provinces and a cornprehensive network of transactions offices and mobile bank
branches. Total loans outstanding in these provinces at the end of 1996 amounted to US$180 million
equivalent over some 700,000 accounts. Oi this, short-term loans accounted for about 80% of total loans
with medium-term loans up to 5 years accounting for 20%. Overdues as a percentage of net amounts due
at the end of 1996 varied from 1.61% in Quang Tri to 14% in Thua Thien-Hue, for an average of 3.9%
overall. UJnder the ongoing Agricultural Rehabilitation Project, the bank has about 36,000 smallholder
accounts for short-term and medium-term loans in these provinces. Overdues on project-financed
smallholder loans are similar to those in the rest of the portfolio and are less than 5% of amounts due with
very little rescheduling and then only for one further cropping season.
This good performance is due to the use of group guarantees (joint-liability groups) organized at the
commune level by mass organizations, principally the Vietnam Women's Union and the Farmers' Union
who may receive a fee from VBARD for these services. Additionally, appl[icants for credit must be
certified by the commune committee that they are residents in good standing with the community. Use of
this system also lowers the transaction cost for the financial intermediaries. Under the project, this
system would continue to be used since many project beneficiaries would be ongoing clients of the bank
while most new clients would also receive credit for annual crops and livestock. Good repayment
performance for the rubber loans would be a condition of eligibility for continued access to further short-
or mediumn-term credit. The combination of continued access to credit and community involvement in
loan placement and recovery would ensure credit discipline.
Cost recovery mechanisms for rubber sniallholder development in other countries have frequently
employed deductions at the factory on amounts due smallholders for rubber sold. This often results in
low recovery as producers sell elsewhere. Evidence of this possibility in Vietnam is the presence of
traders whio buy small lots diverted from state farms for informal export across land borders.  Other
schemes elsewhere use the same state agency to develop the smallholder plantings and to recover costs
from production receipts. It would be expensive to establish the minimum financial competence in any
non-bank agency to enable this to be done in Vietnam. Both approachles require a centralized
development scheme. These have proven to be unsustainably expensive elsewhere and are now in the
process of being privatized. The project would use existing and proven crediit recovery mechanisms to
enable the eventual transition to a fully commercial long-term credit operation.



Page 37
Annex 5
Table A: Project Costs (excluding farm labor) in US$million
(Years Ending 06/30)
Vietnam
Agricultural Diversification Project
Implementation Period              Post Project Operational Period
FY               99      00      01     02      03      04     05      06     07       08
Project Costs (US$ million)
Investment Costs          9.45   12.54   13.96   12.86   14.85   15.59   6.0    6.0    6.0      6.0
Recurrent Costs           0.43    0.65    0.76    0.95    1.04    1.19    1.0    1.0    1.0     1.0
Total                  9.88   13.19   14.72   13.81   15.89   16.78    7.0    7.0    7.0     7.0
Financing Sources (% of
total project costs)
IDA                        9.2   12.3   13.2   13.3   15.5    15.9
AFD (Co-financier)         2.4    3.1    4.0    2.6    2.7       3.6
Government                 0.2    0.2    0.3    0.5    0.6       0.4
Total                  11.8   15.6   17.5   16.4   18.8   19.9
Source: Project cost tables for years 1 -6, economic analysis for outer years. Amounts rounded.



Page 38
Annex 6
Procurement and. Disbursement Arrangementss
Vietnam
Agricultural Diversification Project
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A).
Procurement of works and goods, other than under smallholder sub-loans and smallholder rubber
plantation sub-loans, would follow the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits", published in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the
Guidelines). Standard Bidding Documents and Standard Bid Evaluation Forms would be used for all
Bank-financed procurement. Contracts for consulting services would be procured in accordance with the
provisions of the "Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 (the Consultant
Guidelines). The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, which would be responsible for
project implementation, and the General Rubber Corporation, which would provide management support
services to the PPMUs, have demonstrated their capabilities for procurement through the successful
implementation of the IDA-financed Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 256].-VN).
Civil works (US$1.7 million), comprising farm access tracks for rubber smallholders, small
works for community infrastructure for ethnic minorities, and for nurseries and field trial sites under the
Smallholder Rubber Research sub-component and the Pilot Fruit Tree Development component, would
be small and scattered throughout the project provinces and, for the most part, would therefore not be
suitable for procurement through competitive bidding procedures. Farm access tracks (US$1.1 million),
which would be expected to cost less than US$20,000 equivalent per contract, would be procured for the
most part through simplified procedures for the procurement of small works. In cases where farm tracks
could be regrouped through contracts valued at more than US$20,000 equivalent, National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures would be applied. Agreement was reached during negotiations that local
procurement procedures (Decree 43/CP dated July 16, 1996, as amended by Decree February 25, 1997)
would be used for NCB, with the required revisions and clarifications for purposes of consistency with
the Bank's Guidelines for NCB set forth in a Supplemental Letter to the Development Credit Agreement.
These arrangements would encourage the participation of eligible qualified local contractors (enterprises
which are financially and managerially autonomous and have capacity to undertake the proposed work).
Small civil works for village infrastructure for ethnic minority communities (US$0.5 million), valued at
less than US$10,000 equivalent per contracil, and for nurseries and field trial sites (US$0.2 million),
valued at less than US$20,000 equivalent per contract, would be procured through simplified procedures
for the procurement of small works.
Goods (US$3.0 million) required for the project would comprise equipment (US$1.4 million),
agricultural and demonstration materials (US$0.4 million) and vehicles (US$1.2 million). Large
packages valued at approximately US$1.0 million would be procured through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB). A margin of preference equal to the amount of duties and other related import charges
which a non-exempt importer would have to pay or 15 percent of the CIF price oif imported goods if said
duties and charges exceed 15 percent would be allowed to domestic manufacturers bidding under ICB
procedures. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to IDA (see para. above) would
apply to all contracts for equipment and materials below US$50,000 per contract up to an aggregate of
US$1.5 million and for vehicles below US$100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate of US$0.3
million. National Shopping procedures, consistent with the Guidelines, would apply for the procurement



Page 39
of small packages of goods and materials below US$ 10,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate of
US$0.3 million, and for the procurement of up to three vehicles needed for project start-up, below
US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate of US$0.1 million.
Services (US$7.2 million) required for the project would comprise technical assistance, training,
and management services. Technical assistance (US$4.8 million) for studies, smallholder rubber,
livestock, human resources development, ethnic minority participation, project management, financial
management, procurement, audits, monitoring and evaluation, including monitoring and evaluation of
ethnic minority participation and baseline surveys for monitoring indicators, would be procured using
quality- and cost- based selection, as would technical assistance for the provision of extension services
(US$0.4 million) to a large number of scattered groups of rubber smallholders. Extension services would
be provided by local state and provincial rubber companies, which have been determined to be legally
and financially autonomous and which operate under commercial law in accordance with Section 1.10 (b)
of the Consultant Guidelines. Management support services to the smallholder rubber program (US$0.5
million) would be procured through direct contracting of GRC, a financially and legally autonomous
entity, which is the only qualified entity with the proven expertise in rubber cultivation at the national
level. Local and overseas training (US$1.5 million) would be procured through procedures acceptable to
IDA.
Credit (US$58.9 million) would be provided to VBARD to finance long-term credit for new
rubber development and rubber rehabilitation as well as short- and medium-term credit for agricultural
intensification (annual and perennial crops, other than rubber, and livestock). In accordance with Section
3.12 of the Guidelines, procurement would be undertaken by farmers, the beneficiaries of such credit,
using established local private sector or commercial practices, which are acceptable to the Association.
Typical contracts would be very small, less than US$500 equivalent per contract. PPMUs would
encourage the consolidation of procurement of services for land preparation, fertilizers, agro-chemicals,
and other required inputs for the establishment and maintenance of rubber holdings to the maximum
possible, and would seek the support of GRC to this end. Goods and works under contracts estimated to
cost the equivalent of US$1.0 million or more per contract would be procured under ICB procedures.
Planting materials (US$9.6 million), which would be financed by AFD, would be procured from central
nurseries to ensure high quality standards, and in accordance with AFD's procedures.
Field activities, consisting of land surveying and mapping for land allocation, to be carried out by
GDLA (US$7.2 million), and field trials for pilot fruit tree component and rubber research, and livestock
demonstrations (US$1.2 million), would be procured through force account in accordance with
Government procedures acceptable to IDA. Payment of incremental staff allowances, operations and
maintenance of project investments (US$5.0 million) would follow Government procedures acceptable to
IDA.
Prior review thresholds (Table B). All contracts for goods would be grouped into bid packages
whenever possible to attract competition and permit bulk purchasing. The Bank's standard bidding
documents would be used, including standard evaluation forms. For the IDA credit, prior review would
be required for (a) all contracts awarded through ICB; (b) the first three contracts for goods and materials
and the first three contracts for civil works, awarded through NCB, regardless of value; and (c) all
contracts for services in excess of US$100,000 equivalent for firms, US$50,000 equivalent for
individuals, single source selection of consulting firms, and each contract for technical management
support services. These arrangements would ensure prior review by IDA of about 30 percent of goods
and works to be procured under the project. Ex-post review would be carried out on a sample basis of
one out of four contracts for those contracts not subject to prior review.



Page 40
Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds. The allocation of proceeds is shown in Table C of this Annex.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs,). Disbursements would be made against Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) for expenditures under free-limit smallholder and smallholder rubber plantation
sub-loans, incremental operating costs, training, field activities, works under force account; and for
expenditures under contracts for: (a) civil works not exceeding US$20,000 equivalent each; (b) goods
(except vehicles) not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent each; (c) vehicles not exceeding US$100,000
equivalent each; (d) consultants' services with firms not exceeding U$100,000 equivalent each; and (e)
consultants' services with individuals not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent. Documentation for these
expenditures would be retained by the implementing agencies, and made available to the Bank on request.
All other dislbursements from the credit would be fully documented.
Special accounts. In order to facilitate credit disbursement and reduce the volume of withdrawal
applications, GOV would establish two distinct Special Accounts, to be maintained in US dollars, in a
commercial bank, acceptable to IDA. One special account would be managed by VBARD for credit
expenditures, while the other special account would be managed by MARD for non-credit expenditures,
with SBV the co-signer of both accounts. The authorized ceilings for the 'VBARD- and MARD-
managed accounts (equivalent to four months average project disbursement) would be US$3.0 million
and US$1.5 million respectively. However, the authorized ceilings would be limited to US$2.0 million
and US$0.5 million for the VBARD- and MARD- managed accounts respectively, until the aggregate
amounts withdrawn from disbursement categories 3 and 4, in respect of the VBARD-managed account,
and from categories 1, 2, 5, 6, and 7 in respect of the MARD-managed account, are equal or exceed
SDR2.25 million (approximately US$3.0 million) and SDRI.5 million (approximately US$2.0 million)
respectively.
Fund Flow Arrangements.
For credit expenditures, IDA funds would be on-lent to VBARD by MOF under terms and
conditions which were agreed during negotiations and would be set out in a Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
UpoE approving farmer sub-loans, VBARD would disburse directly to farmers for new smallholder
rubber development or rehabilitation, or for ainual and non-rubber perennial crops and livestock, using
its own fundls, which would be reimbursed to VBARD through withdrawal from VBARD-managed
special account. Detailed sub-loan terms and conditions are set out in the lending policy manual, agreed
during negotiations, and are based on: (i)for long-term on-lending to farmers for rubber, a loan maturity
period of up to 20 years, a grace period of up to eight years on principal and interest, and a variable
interest rate, as published by VBARD; and (ii) for short- and medium-term on-lending to farmers for
crops and livestock, general terms and conditions applied by VBARD in the project area, including a loan
maturity period of up to one year for short-term sub-loans financed by IDA, and from one to five years
for medium-term sub-loans financed by IDA and AFD, and a variable interest rate, as published by
VBARD. The IDA free limit sub-loans would be US$50,000 equivalent and US$20,000 equivalent for
smallholder rubber sub-loans and non rubber sub-loans respectively. The IDA Credit would finance up
to 80% of total costs or US$50,000, whichever is smaller, for rubber sub-loans, and up to 80% of total
costs for non-rubber sub-loans.



Page 41
For non-credit expenditures: (i) at the national level, when an eligible expenditure is incurred,
IDA funds would be withdrawn from MARD-managed special account by the PCU, either to make direct
payments to suppliers against 100% IDA-financed expenditures, or to be transferred to a PCU account,
where counterpart funds from MOF would be directly transferred, and from which the PCU would make
payments; (ii) at the provincial level, PPMUs would establish project accounts, which would receive
counterpart funds directly transferred from MOF and/or provincial budgets.



Page 42
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangementsl
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                            Procurement Method                Total Cost
(including
conting.)
ICDt       NCB         Other       N.B.F
1. Works
Civil Works                           -          0.10        1.55         -          1.65
(0.09)      (1.40)                (1.49)
2. Goods
Equipment and Materials              0.10         1.45       0.32         -          1.87
(0.09)      (1.33)     (0.29)                 (1.71)
Vehicles                             0.90        0.17        0.09         -          1.16
(0.86)      (0.17)      (0.08)                (1.11)
3. Services,
Consultants' Svcs., Studies, and      -           -          6.75         -          6.75
Training                                                    (6.75)                  (6.75)
Management Support Services           -           -          0.47         -          0.47
(0.47)                (0.47)
4. Miscellaneous
Smallholder Sub-loans                 -           -          7.70        6.00       13.70
(7.70)                (7.70)
Smallholder Rubber Plantation Sub-    -           -         35.64        9.57      45.21
loans                                                       (35.64)                (35.64)
Field Activities for Land Allocation,  -          -          8.44         -          8.44
Research, and Demonstration                                  (7.59)                 (7.59)
Incremental Operating Costs           -           -          5.02         -          5.02
(4.39)                (4.39)
Total                              1.01)       1.72       58.76      1]5.57      84.28
(0.9;5)     (1.59)     (57.09)               (66.85)
Notes:
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items).
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
'For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to ODI 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment Operations."



Page 43
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method                  Total Cost (incl.
Consultant Services Expenditure Category'                                                       conting.)
QCBS    QBS    SFB   LCS  CQ   Other  N.B.F
A. Firms
Rubber Extension
Rubber Company Extension Contracts            0.4                                                    0.4
Credit Appraisal Specialist                   0.1                                                    0.1
GRC Technical Management Support Services2                                        0.2                0.2
Rubber Research
Rubber Research Specialists3
Short Term TA                                          0.1                                           0.1
Pilot Fruit Tree Development
Monitoring of Field Trials/Evaluation of Potential     0.1                                           0.1
Post Harvest Processing Specialist                     0.1                                           0.1
Short Term TA                                          0.1                                           0.1
Nursery Specialist                                     0.0                                           0.0
Livestock Extension
Livestock Extension Specialist                0.3                                                    0.3
Support for Ethnic Minority Development
International Ethnic Minority Specialist4              0.7                                           0.7
Human Resources Development
Needs Assessment Specialist4                  0.4                                                    0.4
Curriculum Revision Specialist4               0.4                                                    0.4
Human Resources Development Specialist        0.2                                                    0.2
Training Adviser                              0.1                                                    0.1
Extension Organization Study                  0.1                                                    0.1
Project Management
Smallholder Rubber Specialist                          0.9                                           0.9
Project Management Adviser                    0.2                                                    0.2
Technical Management Support Services                                             0.3                0.3
Preparation Studies                           0.2                                                    0.2
Audit of Project Accounts                     0.3                                                    0.3
Financial Management Specialist               0.1                                                    0.1
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist          0.2                                                    0.2
Review of MARD's Project Accounts             0.0                                                    0.0
Review of VBARD's Project Accounts            0.0                                                    0.0
B. Individuals
Rubber Research
National TA                                                                       0.0                0.0
Support for Ethnic Minority Development
Monitoring Consultants                                                            0.1                0.1
Preparation Studies
National Support                                                                  0.1                0.1
Human Resources Development
National HRD Specialists                                                           0.0  I_0.0
Total   3.0      2.0                        0.7                5  07
Does not include consultants employed to provide training services
2 Includes inspection of rubber planting materials and preparation of rubber cultivation technical guidelines, with inputs from RRIV
Grant-funded by CIRAD
4 Grant funds being sought



Page 44
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ  = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank credit



Page 45
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure          Contract Value        Procurement           Contracts Subject to
Category             (Threshold)           Method            Prior Review / Estimated
Total Value Subject to Prior
Review
US$ thousands                                  US$ millions
1. Works
Civil Works                  above 20,000    N.C.B.                I' 3 contracts        0.1
below 20,000    Small Works
2. Goods
Equipment and Materials      above 50,000    I.C.B.                All                   0.1
below 50,000    N.C.B.                1" 3 contracts        0.1
below 10,000    Local Shopping
Vehicles                    above 100,000    I.C.B.                All                   1.1
below 100,000    N.C.B.                 1' 3 contracts       0.1
below 50,000    Local Shopping
Subtotal Goods and Works       1.5
3. Services
Consultants' Services,                 -    Consulting Services    Firms>                5.2
Studies, and Training                                              $100,000
Individuals >
$50,000
Management Support                     -    Consulting Services    All                   0.5
Services
4. Miscellaneous
Smallholder Sub-loans        above 20,000                          All
below 20,000
Smallholder Rubber        above 1,000,000    I.C.B.                All
Plantation Sub-loans      below 1,000,000                          All
below 50,000
Field Activities for Land              -    Force Account
Allocation, Research, and
Demonstrations
Incremental Operating
Costs
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:              7.2



Page 46
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Disbursement Category          Amount in       Financing Percentage
US$
1   Civil Works under Parts A.1, A.3 and C.3 of  1,000,000  90 %
the Project
2   Goods                                     2,800,000  100 % foreign expenditures, 100
% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 85% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
3   Smiallholder Sub-Loans (Crop and Livestock  7,500,000  100 % of amounts paid
Development)
4   Smallholder Rubber Plantation Sub-Loans  35,000,000  100 % of amounts paid
5   Consultants' Services, Studies, and Training  7,000,000  100 %
6   Field Activities a/                       6,500,000  90%
7   Incremental Operating Costs               3,500,000  100 % for costs incurred during
calendar years 1998, 1999, 2000,
and 2001
80 % for costs incurred during
calendar years 2002, 2003, and
2004
8   Unallocated                               3,550,000
Total  66,850,000
a/  include surveying and mapping for land allocation, field trials for pilot fruit tree component and rubber
research, and livestock demonstrations



Page 47
Annex 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Vietnam
Agricultural Diversification Project
A. Project.Budget (US$000)                       Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Preparation                                       308.6                299.7
Appraisal                                          41.7                 59.7
Negotiations to Board Presentation                 34.3                 19.4 *
Total                                       384.6                 378.8 *
* estimated
B. Project Schedule                              Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      12 months            13 months
First Bank mission (identification)            09/09/1996           09/09/1996
Appraisal mission departure                    09/15/1997            10/25/1997
Negotiations                                    10/08/1997          05/20/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  04/01/1998           09/01/1998
Prepared by: Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
Preparation assistance: grant funds from Agence Fran,aise de Developpement
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Core Task Team:
Philippe Boyer, Sr. Agronomist, Task Team Leader, EASRD
William Cuddihy, Sr. Agriculture Economist, EASRD
Carlos Escudero, Senior Counsel, LEGEA
Gaye Lindsey, Disbursement Officer, LOAAS
Lars Lund, Sociologist, EASSD
Charles Maguire, Sr. Institutional Development Specialist, RDV
Robert Crooks, Environmental Specialist, EASEN
David Sislen, Consultant, EASRD
Amanda Days, Task Assistant, EASRD
Peer Reviewers:
Ivar Serej ski (SASRD), on extension
Jacob Yaron (PSDMF), on credit
Claude Carlier, on smallholder rubber development
Draft PAD Reviewers:
Syed Husain (EASRD)
Douglas Lister (SASRD)



Page 48
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File*
Vietnam
Agricultural Diversification Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
* Draft Project Implementation Plan, including project implementation schedule, procurement arrangements,
fund flows, project management, terms of reference of consultants and studies, and summary project cost
tables.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Economic & Financial Assessment
2. Rubber Smallholder Development
3. Extension Activities
4. Livestock Development
5. Human Resource Development
6. Social Assessment
7. Land Allocation
8. Assessment of Ethnic Minority Development Plan
C. Other
* Preliminaiy study of smallholder rubber development in the highland region
* Part I: assessment of regional suitability, CIRAD, 1995
* Part II: institutional and financing arrangements, SODECI, 1996
*  Project preparation studies, 1997
* Srnallholder rubber component, SC)FRECO: general report with appendixes on agronomic aspects,
institutional, human resource and training aspects, social aspects, research, financial aspects, and
ethnic minorities
Livestock development, MARD
* Pilot fruit tree development, RIFAV
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Vietnam
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(As of March 31, 1998)
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                         disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit       Year               Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                               IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 3
Active Loans
VN-PE-45628   IDA30340       1998   GOV                               TRANSMISSION 6 DISTR              0.00      199.00            0.00        194.55        0.00       0.00
VN-PE-4839    IDA29960       1998   GOVT OF VIET NAM                  FOREST PROT.& RUL DE              0.00       21.50            0.00         21.42        0.00       0.00
VN-PE-4843    IDA30000       1998   GOVT OF VIET NAM                  INLAND WATERWAYS                  0.00       73.00            0.00         72.35         .36       0.00
VN-PE-39021   IDA29290       1997   GOV'T OF VIET NAM                 RURAL TRANSPORT                   0.00       55.00            0.00         42.62        -.56       0.00
VN-PE-4830    IDAN0260       1997   GOV                               WATER SUPPLY                      0.00       98.61            0.00         96.06        8.89       0.00
VN-PE-4842    IDAN0130       1997   GOVT OF VIET NAM                  HIGHWAY REHAB II                  0.00      195.60            0.00        178.67        5.41       0.00
VN-PE-36042   IDA27850       1996   SOC. REP. OF VIETNAM              BANKING SYSTEM MODER              0.00       49.00            0.00         43.84       32.81       0.00
VN-PE-42236   IDA28200       1996   GOVT. OF VIETNAM                  POWER DEV                         0.00      180.00            0.00         15.34      -27.26       0.00
VN-PE-4838    IDA28080       1996   SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIE         NATIONAL HEALTH SUPP              0.00      101.20            0.00         83.74        5.83       0.00               Id
VN-PE-4841    IDA28070       1996   SOC REP OF VIET NAM               POPULATION & FAMILY               0.00       50.00            0.00         40.21        8.36       0.00               b
VN-PE-4847    IDA28550       1996   GOV                               RURAL FINANCE                     0.00      122.00            0.00        106.47       36.99       0.00              0%
VN-PE-4834    IDA27110       1995   GOV                               IRRIGATION REHABILIT              0.00      100.00            0.00         73.33       -1.27       0.00               a
VN-PE-4836    IDA27240       1995   EVN PC2 PC3                       POWER SECTOR RENAB &              0.00      165.00            0.00         96.31       78.59    -10.62
VN-PE-4832    IDA25490       1994   GOVT OF VIET NAM                  HIGHWAY REHAB                     0.00      158.50            0.00         87.70       78.10      25.59
VN-PE-4835    IDA25480       1994   SOC REP OF VIET NAN               PRIMARY EDUCATION                 0.00       70.00            0.00         43.16       18.35       -.90
VN-PE-4837    IDA25610       1994   GOVT OF VIET NAM                  AGRIC REHABILITATION              0.00       96.00            0.00          4.54        -.05       0.00
Total                                                                                                   0.00   1,734.41             0.00      1,200.31      244.55      14.07
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 445.09              243.82              688.91
of which has been repaid:                   0.00                5.67                5.67
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               1,734.41              239.03            1,973.44
Amount sold                                       0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                :            1,200.31                0.00            1,200.31
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter
based system will be used (HS - highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Page 50
Annex 9
Vietnam
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Mar-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1994                  Hanoi Metropole         4.00    0.00    3.50   13.46    4.00    0.00    3.50   13.46
1995                  Baria Serece Prt        3.00    0.00    0.00    1.80    3.00    0.00    0.00    1.80
1995                  Foremost Dairy          8.00    0.00    0.00    6.50    8.00    0.00    0.00    6.50
1996                  Kyoei Steel             15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  Mom.Star Cement        30.00    0.00    0.00   66.60   25.80    0.00    0.00   57.28
1996                  Sucre de Bourbon       22.00    0.00    0.00   20.00   22.00    0.00    0.00   20.00
1996                  SMH Glass Co.           10.00    0.00    0.00    4.50   10.00    0.00    0.00    4.50
1996                  Tosac Hotel             3.39    0.00    0.00    2.78    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  Tourane Hotel           6.00    0.00    2.30    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  Vimaflour               8.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    3.00
1996                  VILC                    0.00     .75    0.00    0.00    0.00      .75    0.00    0.00
1997                  Saigon Hilton           13.05    0.00    0.00   28.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                  122.44     .75    5.80  152.64   95.80     .75    3.50  106.54
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1997                  KIA HUY HOANG           6.20      .62     .80    6.20
1997                  NGHE AN SUGAR          20.00    0.00    0.00   30.00
1997                  NGHI SON CEMENT        30.00    0.00    0.00   26.50
1997                  SEM HOTEL               0.00    0.00    4.50    0.00
1996                  VIETNAM INTL LSE        5.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
1997                  VINAFOOD                10.50    0.00    0.00   13.50
Total Pending Commitment:          71.70     .62    5.30   86.20



Annex 10
Vietnam at a glance                                                                 via/98
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               East    Low-
Vietnam       Asia  Income       D.vslopmentdlamond-
Population mid-1997 (millions)                         76.8      1,726    3,229
GNP per capita 1997 (US$) (prel.)                       320       890      500                 Life expectancy
GNP 1997 (billions US$)                                25.9      1,542    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Populaton ()                                            1.9        1.3      1.7     GNP                               Gross
Labor force(%)                                           9         1.3      1.7     per                             primary
Most recent estimab (btest yearcavaiabpsince 1989)                                  capita                        enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)               51
Urban population (%of total population)                  21        31       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         68        68       83
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)                41        40       69                Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               45
Access to safe water (% of population)                   38        49        53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                      6        17       34                 Vietnam
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populaion)    114       117      105
Male                                                            120      112           -Low-income group
Female                                                          116       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS                                   Est.
1975     1985      196      1997
GDP (billions USs)                               -     17.0      23.3      25.9      Economicrstoe
Gross domestic investment/GDP                    ..      ..       27.9     27.5             Openness of economy
Exports of goods and servicestGDP                ..       .      41.6      44.5
Gross domestic savingslGDP                      ..
Gross national savings/GDP                      ..       ..       16.7     18.8
Current account balance/GDP                      ..    *3.1      -11.3     -8.8                       .
Interest payments/GDP                            .s ..              ..       ..    Savings                       Investment
Total debtVGDP                                  ..       ..       97.8
Total debt service/exports                      ..       ..       15.4     14.4
Present value of debt/GDP                        ..
Present value of debVexports                    ..                                               Indebtedness
Est.    Proj.
197646  1986-96      1996      1997  1998-06
(average annual growth)                                                                        Vietnam
GDP                                    ..      6.9      9.3        8.8      7.7
GNP per capita                         ..      4.9      5.7        6.8      5.5             Low-income group
Exports of goods and services          ..    25.4      24.2       14.8      9.3                      _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997
(96 of GDP)                                                                Eat      Growth rates of output and Investment(%
Agriculture                                     ..       ..       27.2     25.7     so
Industry                                        ..       ..       30.7     31.7     ao
Manufacturng                                  ..        ..        .,       ,,    40
Services                                         ..      ..       42.1     42.6     20
Private consumpton                               ..       ,         ..       ..       91   92   93   94   s5    s0 97
General govemment consumption                   ..        .GDI   -                                              DP
Imports of goods and services                   ..       ..       55.3     53.8
1975485  1986.96      1996     1997
(average annual growth)                                                    Eat.     Growth rates of exports and Imports (%J
Agriculture                                     ..      52         4.4      4.0     w
Industry                                         -    11.7        14.4     13.0     so
Manufacturing                                  ..       ..        ..       ..    40
Services                                         ..     8.2       10.0      8.0     30
20
Private consumption                             *-       ,-          ,        -     1i
General govemment consumption                   ..       ..         ..        ,,
Gross domestic investment                       ..    2&4         17.2      6.5       91   92   9e   94   95   se   97
Imports of goods and services                   ..    24.3        29.0      4.8
Gross national product                          ..      7.2        9.3      8.8                 Exports   Impott
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in Italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 1 0
Vietnam
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                             Est
DomesUc pices                                1975     1085      1996     1997      Infttion (%)
(% change)                                                                         100
Consumer prices                                                   5.6      3.2     30
60
Implicit GDP deflator                                 94.2        6.1      5.5     40
20
Government flnance                                                                               1    1    2
(% of GDP)                                                                           73   33   14   is   20    a
Current revenue                                                  23.6     22.4       91   92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                                            5.9      5.2             --GDP def. -0--CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                          -0.2     -0.6
TRADE
(millions US$)                               1975     1985      1996     1997      Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                    507      7,330    8,951    I1OO0
Rice                                                   ..       855      927      1,D
Fuel                                                   ..     1,348    1,43
Manufactures                                  5.000
Totat imports (cii)                                    930    11,528   11,838       6,0
Food400
Fuel and energy                                                                   2,000
Capital goods                                                                                 M
Export price index (1987=100)                   ..91  92  93                                               9      9   97
Import price index (1987=100)                                                                   oExports ..imrs
Terms of trade (1987=t00)                       .=
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1996     1997
(millions USS)                                                                     Current account balance to GDP rateo (%)
Exports of goods and services                                   9,695   11,492      0
Imports of goods and services                                  12,870   13,917         1          93   94  95  96   97
Resource balance                                               -3,176   -2,425     -2
Net income                                             -90       -505     -564     -4
Net current transfers                                   52      1,045     711      4
Current accotnt balance,                                                            4_
before official capital transfers                    -534    -2,636   -2,278
-10_
Financing iterns (net)                          ,      265      3,107    2,578                                    _
Changes in net reserves                                269       -471     -300    -12
Maemo:
Reserves inciuding gold (mill US$)
Conversion rate (hDca'UUSS)                             8.3  11,080.0 12,000.0
EXTERNAL CIEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Composltioln a total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                           22,041   22,791
IBRD                                                             0        0                         BC  D
IDA                                           ,,               231      412                        4l45 113
Total debt service                              ,                 309       ..
IBRD                                                             0         0
IDA                                                              2         3 2  3
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             249       38        150      150
Official creditors                                             298      466
Private creditors                                              -67 * -
Foreign direct investment                                     2,236    1,838                         E
Portfolio equity                                                                                  21820.6
World Bank program
Commitmerts                                                    265      502      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                                   47      189       B-IDA    D-Other multilateral  F -Private
Principal repayments                                             I         1      C- IMF                      G - Short-term
Netflows                                                        40      188
Interest payments                                                2        2
Net transfers                                                   45      186
EASPR                                                                                                                4/16198
Note: Debt includes non-convertible currency debt



MAP SECTION



' 02o                                       tLI                                   106                                  'L8                                    hO'
~~~~r ;d'ffiEd > .6                                                           &  go
d  Ko rilTg   ihj6hP-@ /'  iXiLiL      iC  H  I N  A
eK -          ' H a
22\.yo* Li                                                                 r       >    ooc            r                                                                  22
ra 9               _                                      w            W           '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G-  C.1 cb
<V    \ 11Zt7             Th6i                               0Ti
1H                    aBy              H    n
+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hd ton 0 29 0s  
jo,oi-oh  -On
LAO PEOPLE' S                                                            Nii /, Hoin- l.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                     (China)
H-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~H
L.                                                                             S
VIETNAM                                                               /                                                                     Onn Ngoi
AGRICULTURAL                                                                   -
DIVERSIFICATION
PROJECT                                                               )             _.-~~
PROJECT PROVINCES:        ~         .        "    N          (
CENTRALN.
NORTHERN                                                                                     T
>    Swonn:*hel                < t<oOoooHon
4. AIRPORTS
PORTS
*     PROVINCE CAPITALS                                C   A   M     B  0     D   I  A
NATIONAL CAPITAL
NATIONAL ROADS
RIVERS
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                              To                                                a 
NTERNATONAL                                                                 014- 40                        i                Tow                    N
BOUNDARIESS                                                                                                 K9
Eon
LoiTbon  TkoThtunooh
L   RIVERS    Ho Soot                                                Phoon olTnro
LCoo Gon          Q         uN e N-                                          rO                         D
C-ta              Dol N                                                                                   BPnTRhEnl
Osino CLn  g      Ngi P bno Pe                                                                                                       *an Shoot4
:n Lb, g          Knb HTon-                         Son                                                h    a   Thb
Yenboi            GiL ~i                         T.             .B>    :\             \c 10pi                   i hCy
Ta Yw Non           A Bmh DimhK                                                  oo               TnAn                                        PhoCoY
Lo)hMan           hc Cto- oh. --                                                                                                              6 QVT
PLoolE_           D.nbtn                     4.g                                ~          @McHH
bOot Ph.o         tBim Ph-no            P
Mbc Gion          Ni,ng Th-o     -9           :          ,n                                      'W-                                                   H            10'
G ong Ninh        Toy, No                                   Tm                To LJ AEKONG GETTA
HgNgi             BinmhDong a-                                                            .o Tr6 V
Boo Ninm          Dong Noi                    No  D
Ho Toy             ibinhThn Th.
Ho gYen           TP. H ChiMinh                                                          Socmloong
Hgi D-ng          b Rio Voog Tou
H.i Phoog         L-OD A            Th CE'                                                                                    0   25  50  75  100  25 150Khont
Hno Bih           Te Giong                                     a                      L_ .                                    I   i L I   I             I:
Ho Non            Dong Thop                                                                                                        I   I        1 )    ,. '
Thoi Rioh         tonT,n                                                                                                      0       25       S0       75      10Rbs
Hi, S imh         A Giong: s
NHg  nh           Vmh Log                                                                              C- D
Ngh6AM            Kien Gi-qbG                                                                                                        y    /   ^s_ofy           .o 
Ho Tinh           Coo Tgn                                        KhoiK  d                                                                              n b _
:>   Cn  8inh          5- T,.                                                                                                                                                 L
( Joongt Tn              oto                                                                                                                                                  HO ie 
6   Co Mo                    104'                                  1tHW                                      to-                                    _



