Report No. PIC4605
Project Name                   Viet Nam-Agricultural Diversification...
Project
Region                         East Asia and Pacific
Sector                         Agriculture
Project ID                     VNPA4844
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development
2 Ngoc Ha, Hanoi, Vietnam
Fax: 84-4-845-4319
Date PID Prepared              October 1996
Projected Appraisal            September 1997
Projected Board Date           December 1997
Sector Issues and Government Strategy
1.   Background.  Vietnam's society is predominately agrarian, with some
80 percent of the population of 73 million people living in rural areas
and 70 percent of these relying exclusively on farming. Of the total
land area of 33 million ha, 7 million are cultivated, including 5.5
million cropped annually and 1.5 million planted to perennials and
pasture, with rice accounting for 77 percent of the cultivated area.
Food crops, mostly rice, account for about 50 percent of the gross value
of sectoral output of some US$7,503 million in 1994, while livestock and
industrial crops account for some 22 percent and 11 percent
respectively. Fruits and vegetables contribute another 7 percent and 5
percent.
2.   Sector Issues.   Vietnam's rapid economic growth over the last
decade has come at the cost of increasing inequity. With industry and
services GDP growing at 12 percent per year, and agricultural GDP
growing at about 4 percent per year, it is not unexpected that the urban
centers have increasingly become relatively richer and the rural areas
relatively poorer. The Government / Bank / UNDP Poverty Assessment
Report of 1994 has quantified the extent of rural poverty estimating
that 90 percent of the poor live in the countryside where the incidence
of poverty is 57 percent, more than twice that of urban areas. The key
rural development policy issue for Government in trying to reduce the
income gap is that the GDP growth rate for Vietnam's food-based
agricultural system is already quite high by any standard and is
unlikely to be maintained over the long run. In addition, much of the
growth is increasingly coming at the cost of environmental degradation
as forests are cleared for farming of land often not suited for annual
cropping because of slope, unfavorable soil conditions or other
limitations. Of further concern to Government is that poverty incidence
is greatest among the ethnic minorities who farm the northern uplands
and the central highlands.
3.   Government Strategy.   To address these issues, Government's rural
development strategy is to: (i) encourage production of higher-value



commercial crops requiring less land for an increased income; (ii) bring
underutilized potential cropland into production while regulating land
use; (iii) encourage the expansion of industry and services in rural
areas to provide off-farm employment; and, (iv) provide social services
to improve the quality of life, all with particular emphasis on minority
participation. The major constraints in implementing this strategy are
the shortage of long-term investment capital, inadequate rural
infrastructure limiting access to markets and services, and inadequate
research and extension to provide the necessary technical assistance.
4.   Program Performance.   The Government has tried a wide range of
initiatives including general support for farm credit and extension as
well as special rural programs including the Poverty and Hunger
Eradication Program, Greening the Barren Hills Program, and the Rural
Employment Program. These programs have had a common approach of
providing subsidized credit linked to a particular activity, such as
planting pulpwood trees or coffee under Program 327 (Greening the Barren
Hills), and have met with mixed success. The major problems have been
poor technical and institutional performance leading to inadequate cost
recovery and depletion of program funds and difficulties in identifying
suitable crops for specific locations.
Project Objectives and Description
5.   Objectives.  The proposed project's overall objectives would be to
increase rural incomes, employment opportunities and agricultural
production in the country's poor central region, and explore the
potential of other regions for agricultural diversification.
Specifically, the project would seek to (i) assist poor farm families
increase their incomes; and (ii) help Government develop a sustainable
framework for implementing smallholder development programs.
6.   Description.   The proposed project would:
assist 15,000 poor farm families establish about 50,000 to 60,000
ha of rubber plantings and food crops in the central highland and
coastal regions;
construct farm access roads, where necessary;
maintain and/or rehabilitate about 7,000 ha of existing smallholder
rubber;
provide for training and extension to farmers; staff training;
adaptive research; project management; and, monitoring and
inspection of project activities;
implement the project's indigenous people development plan;
provide for administration and recovery of credit granted under the
project; and,
assess the agricultural diversification potential in the northern
region and provide for a feasibility study of a possible future
agricultural diversification project.
-2-



7.   Project Area.  A previous Bank-financed study has identified about
1.8 million hectares as being suitable for smallholder rubber
development in the three central highland provinces (Kon Tum, Gia Lai
and Dak Lak) and four adjacent central coastal provinces to the south of
Da Nang (Quang Ngai, Binh Dinh, Phu Yen, Khan Hoa). The greater part of
the project would cover the central highland region, which contains
large expanses of cleared agricultural land with fertile basaltic soils,
particularly in the Sesan and Srepok River Basins. Population density
is low and there is considerable unused land suitable for cropping and
land carrying low value crops of cassava and foodgrains, and cattle,
that could support higher value crops and tropical pasture improvement.
The farming population, including a substantial proportion of ethnic
minorities (about 39 percent) has shown adaptability in ready acceptance
of new crops. Coffee under irrigation has expanded enormously, pepper
has responded to increased prices. There is now about 7,000 ha of
smallholder rubber in these three provinces, increasing as irrigation
water becomes constraining on further coffee expansion but rubber
development is limited by the shortage of long term credit. Planned
water resources projects in these basins would support major
agricultural development accompanied by population inflow. The low
population density for the time being is being maintained by controls on
inter-province migration. Poverty in this area is attributed to the
relatively recent settling of minorities formerly practicing shifting
cultivation and now growing basic foodcrops with few modern inputs and
to the shortage of non-farm employment opportunities.
8.   The central coastal provinces, on the other hand, are characterized
by high population densities, frequently occurring poor soils and
regular occurrences of flooding often accompanied by typhoons.
Minorities comprise less than 5 percent of farmers. Poverty in these
areas is explained by small farm size. The major crop is irrigated rice
with coconuts, sugar cane, and livestock. Smallholder rubber development
only started very recently, with about 500 ha planted in Quang Ngai
province.
9.   Project Scope.   Planting targets will be determined during
preparation for each project province, based on their potential for
smallholder rubber development and local implementation capacity, as
well as the project's capacity to coordinate implementation in several
provinces and scattered, distant locations. Total project targets are
expected to range between 50,000 and 60,000 ha, for a project duration
of about six years. All sites proposed for development during the first
three project years will be surveyed during preparation and selected
based on a number of criteria including: land suitability, environmental
criteria, social criteria, number of potential project participants,
easy road access, location outside the concession of, and at a maximum
distance of about 50 kms from an existing rubber estate (except in the
coastal provinces). Land to be developed during the remainder of the
project will be selected during implementation, based on the above
criteria, to be formally agreed at appraisal.
10. Farm Models. It is expected that individual holdings would range
between 3 and 5 ha, including 0.5 to 1 ha for food crops and other
annual and perennial cash crops. Non rubber agricultural activities,
including livestock, are essential to provide incomes to the farmers
-3 -



during the first seven years after the rubber trees are planted, before
the trees can be tapped. Proposed detailed farm models will be
described during preparation.
11. Implementation Arrangements. Possible institutional arrangements
for smallholder rubber development were reviewed under another previous
Bank-financed study. The following arrangements are based on the
adoption of a light organizational structure, and were discussed and
agreed in principle with Vietnamese authorities. The project would be
placed under MARD, where a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would be
responsible for overall coordination of project implementation. In this
respect, it should be noted that MARD's capacity to coordinate project
implementation has been satisfactorily demonstrated under the ongoing
Bank-financed Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 61-VN). In each
project province, a provincial PCU (PPCU) would be established to
coordinate the activities of all provincial agencies concerned: (i) the
Peoples Committees would be responsible for land allocation and farmer
selection; (ii) the provincial Departments of Agriculture would be
responsible for extension for crops other than rubber, and for
livestock; (iii) the supply of planting material, preparation of land
and rubber planting, and rubber extension would be contracted out by the
PPCUs to locally established rubber plantation companies (mostly state-
or provincial-owned companies, or state farms); (iv) farmers would
provide their labor for planting and maintaining rubber holdings and
would be responsible for cultivating food and other cash crops and for
livestock activities; (v) a research unit would be established under the
project, reporting to the PCU, to coordinate an adaptive research
program, which would be contracted out to the Rubber Research Institute
of Vietnam for rubber field trials, and to other research institutions
for other crops; and (vi) an inspection unit would be established in
each PPCU to monitor project implementation progress and provide quality
control. The PCU and PPCUs would be staffed by full time MARD officials
and, as MARD does not have direct experience in rubber plantations, the
PCU and each PPCU would include a full time staff from the GRC or state
or provincial rubber companies as the technical coordinator of rubber
development activities.
12. Pilot Fruit Tree Component. A pilot program for the development of
fruit trees in the northern provinces would be included under the
project, with the aims of assessing regional potential and collecting
technical data required for the future consideration and preparation of
a possible large scale fruit tree development program, in the context of
Government's agricultural diversification policies. The component's
proposed area, specific objectives, detailed activities and
implementation arrangements will be determined during preparation.
Costs and Financing
13. Total project costs are estimated around US$120 million, including
US$100 million to plant and maintain about 50,000 to 60,000 hectares of
smallholder rubber (about US$1,800 to 2,000/hectare). The project would
be co-financed by IDA for US$85 million (71 percent) and Caisse
Frangaise de Dbveloppement (CFD) for US$ million (21 percent), with
Government and beneficiaries providing US$10 million (8 percent).
- 4 -



Project Benefits, Sustainability and Risks
14. Benefits. The project would improve incomes of about 15,000 poor
families in the central highland and coastal region and contribute to
regional development. The project would also strengthen Government's
capacity to implement smallholder tree crop development programs in an
efficient and environmentally sound manner, and assist in establishing
a sustainable financing and cost recovery system.
15. Sustainability. The major condition for sustainability is the
adequacy of financing available to carry the crop through to maturity
and the ability of the cost recovery mechanisms to finance continuation
of the program. Previous programs to establish smallholder rubber in
the Central Highlands (under Program 327) proved unsustainable because
of insufficiently financed high costs and the absence of cost recovery
mechanisms and were terminated leaving growers without technical and
financial support. In addition, rubber tree development was part of a
general tree crop program and lacked the focused approach necessary for
this highly specialized enterprise, often leading to poorly maintained
stands of trees of mixed potential resulting from use of indifferent
planting materials. After the initial grant for land preparation and
planting, no finance was available for maintenance over the remaining
immaturity period of about seven years. Without fertilizer, the trees
have been unable to compete with vigorous weed growth resulting from the
failure of the canopy to close in the early years after establishment.
In some cases, agricultural bank finance has been obtained in the
immediate years before tapping and the tree stand restored to a healthy
condition though at a lower than desirable productivity level. The
proposed project includes technical and financial assistance to all
stages of plant growth and exploitation, from assistance to applied
research and production of high potential clonal planting material,
through careful land clearing, crop establishment and proper maintenance
during immaturity, to improved tapping systems and techniques. This
should ensure a high volume of quality latex is produced for already
existing markets in the area. Exceptionally high audited recovery rates
(96 percent or more) for rural credit in Vietnam, indicate that where
the investment proves sound, beneficiaries are prepared to repay fully.
Soon after the first latex comes on stream the enterprise becomes
largely self-financing. Finally, the favourable long term rubber price
projections, which reflect the expected continuing growth of natural
rubber demand by the tire manufacturing sector, should also contribute
to the sustainability of smallholder rubber production.
16.  Risks.    No major technical risk exists, as established
plantations and field trials have confirmed the regional suitability for
rubber and the project would include a research component to adapt
cultural practices to the local conditions. There is a risk that weak
management, poor coordination between participating agencies and
difficult fund flow procedures may delay the start of the project. To
this effect, annual planting targets will be set low in the first years,
and the specific responsibilities and detailed staffing and training
requirements of the PCU and all participating agencies at the national,
provincial and local levels will be determined during preparation and
agreed at appraisal.
-5-



Social Aspects
17. The project is expected to have a positive impact on the livelihood
of the population of the project area, which is characterized in the
highland provinces by lower density (less than 50 persons per sq. km)
and a high proportion of ethnic minority population, accounting for 39
percent of the 2.2 million inhabitants; and in the coastal provinces by
a higher density (205 persons per sq. km) and a low proportion of ethnic
minority population (4 percent of the 4.2 million inhabitants).
18. During preparation, a Social Impact Assessment will be carried out,
based on a representative sample of areas within the larger project
area, to establish sufficient social information and documentation to
design the project in accordance with the needs and desires of the
people in the project area and ensure the informed participation of
project beneficiaries. Consultation will be carried out through stake-
holder workshops at provincial and national level, and focus group
discussions at community and village level, in addition to individual
household interviews. The specific requirements of women will be
determined during the consultation and taken into account in the project
design. Given the high proportion of ethnic minorities in the project
area, a stand alone Ethnic Minority Development Plan will also be
prepared, in accordance with the requirements of OD 4.20 (Indigenous
People).
19. Project preparation will tentatively proceed on the assumptions
that (i) no involuntary land acquisition will be required; (ii) criteria
for selection of project land will require that nobody is adversely
affected; and, (iii) participation in the project is fully voluntary.
Consequently, it is not envisaged at this time that mitigation plans
will be required. A Land Acquisition Assessment will be carried out on
the sites proposed for the first three years. Should the surveys reveal
the need for involuntary land acquisition or other adverse impacts as a
consequence of changed land use, a stand alone Resettlement Action Plan
will be prepared, according to the requirements of OD 4.30 (Involuntary
Resettlement).
Environmental Aspects
20. On the basis of the information available, including initial field
visits, the project is expected to result in a balance of beneficial
environmental effects with limited risk of unanticipated adverse
effects. The areas being considered for development in the three
central highland provinces comprise land that was cleared many years ago
and is centrally located within existing farming areas rather than on
the periphery, at the boundary between agricultural and forested land
where the risk of intrusion of project-financed development in forested
areas might otherwise be more significant. Areas identified as being
suitable for smallholder rubber development were selected on the basis
of criteria reflecting a range of environmental considerations
including: land use (State Forests, Nature Reserves and National Parks
were excluded from consideration); land cover (only un-forested land was
selected); slope (<20 percent) and, soil depth/texture (>lm/<85 percent
sand). Provided these criteria are applied in the selection of
individual planting sites, adverse environmental impact potential in
- 6 -



terms of biodiversity conservation will be minimal while impact on soils
will be minimal in the short term and beneficial in the long term (soil
erosion under perennial tree crops is significantly less than under
Imperata grassland or secondary regrowth). Other environmental aspects
that will have to be considered during project preparation include: (i)
the design and construction of farm access roads, where necessary, to
minimize soil erosion; and, (ii) agrochemical handling, storage and use
(some herbicide applications are likely to be necessary to control
regrowth of Imperata grass).
21. During preparation, all areas proposed for development within the
first three years of the project will be inspected to determine whether
the environmentally favorable site location, land use and land cover
characteristics observed in the initial site inspections apply more
generally and, as necessary, to modify the site selection criteria to
ensure that only environmentally favorable sites are included in the
project. Issues related to farm access road design and agro-chemical
handling (a recent independent survey indicated that the quality of
agro-chemical management and regulation in Vietnam is good by regional
standards) are likely to be best addressed through a combination of
project design and appropriate training and technical assistance during
the implementation phase.
Lessons Learnt from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
22. The Bank has financed a number of projects, mainly in Asia and
Africa, that have directly or indirectly contributed to the development
of smallholder rubber. Major common lessons drawn from the past
projects relate to institutional arrangements, financing and cost
recovery, and smallholder response, and have been taken into account in
the design of the proposed project.
23. Institutional Arrangements and Management. Implementation
experience has shown that: (i) projects with few objectives and those
managed by a single institution have performed best; (ii) quality of
management has been a critical element in ensuring success; (iii) those
implemented through project management units (PMU) have generally
performed better than through the nucleus estate and smallholder (NES)
approach where outgrower programs are financed together with estates;
and, (iv) where a number of specialized agencies are involved to supply
inputs, extension, credit, and marketing services, with a resulting
demand for coordination, the ability of all agencies to deliver items is
critical to project success and should be evaluated carefully.
24. Financing and Cost Recovery. Three sources have traditionally been
used for financing smallholder tree crop development: (a) Government
budgets; (b) cesses for tree crop replanting grants; and, (c) credit
from financial institutions. Generally, the practice has been to
finance new planting through credit from Government or banks, or a
combination of grant and credit; and replanting through a cess. In
Malaysia, new planting costs have been financed on credit, made
available from Government through specialized tree crop development
agencies to encourage land development and rehabilitation. Participants
in the projects have also contributed to a replanting cess. Credit
repayment performance has generally been lower for rubber than oil pa,
- 7 -



due to the possibility of diversion of rubber sales. The danger of
increasing smallholder debt burden for non-production purposes has been
reported.
25. Smallholder Participation. Given the long immaturity period of
rubber trees,  most projects have included measures to promote other
income generating activities during the development phase, often through
intercropping with food crops or other cash crops.    Smallholder
participation was affected in cases of unclear land tenure.    Premature
tapping of rubber to provide early cash returns has occurred, with a
cost in lower production in later years.   Solutions to improve prospects
for effective farmer participation can be found through consultation
with prospective beneficiaries during project design and preparation.
26. Recent IDA Involvement in Vietnam. IDA is involved in the
implementation of 10 effective projects, in agriculture, irrigation,
education, health, transport, power, and banking modernization as well
as one structural adjustment credit. It also assists with macro-
economic advice and external aid coordination and carries out analytical
work in support of the economic reform program including studies in
poverty, environment, finance, public expenditure, transport and water
resources management, among others. The project implementation
experience was reviewed during the September 1996 CPPR, which confirmed
the overall satisfactory portfolio performance. Major conclusions of
the review, however, highlighted the cumbersome procedures for
counterpart budget allocation and fund flow, which are causing project
implementation delays, and the weak monitoring arrangements. The design
of the proposed project includes special considerations to resolve these
constraints.
Objective and Poverty Categories
27. The proposed project belongs to the program of targeted
interventions as the proportion of the poor among project beneficiaries
would be substantially higher than in the country's overall population.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending January 10, 1997.
- 8 -



